
Rachel McAdams leads the way in this surprisingly refreshing flick as
the workaholic television show producer, Becky, who lands the job of
organizing "the worst morning show ever". She only has a short time to
save the show's plummeting ratings, and in doing so must battle with
low worker morale, conceited anchors, poor working conditions, as well
as her own inadequacy in dealing with guy-problems. Desperate for a
change, she recruits the legendary newscaster Mike Pomeroy, played by
Harrison Ford, who is less than willing to cover any story he does not
consider "worthy of his reputation".

The film brings not just a comic story of working with grumpy people,
but the beautiful emotional tale of a girl who realizes her dream of
being a television producer and, by pulling everyone together against
the odds, creates a family in the process. But where the story is
rather run-of-the-mill, the chemistry between the impressive cast is
the movie's redeeming quality. Across the board, acting was fantastic,
and in all honesty the movie owes its success to McAdams and Ford.
Rachel McAdams should be commended for her frustrated role as Becky,
and has proved that she has much more to offer than a just pretty face.
Harrison Ford, perhaps the true star of the show, fully embraced the
character of Pomeroy did a wonderfully fantastic job being grumpy,
conceited, and an all-around "asshole" in one of his best roles as of
late.

Morning Glory is a nice tale that will leave you with a sweet taste in
your mouth. Combined with some real solid acting, this is not a movie
you'll regret checking out!
<|_=00=_|>
Rachel McAdams is what makes this movie so likable and cute. Her spunky
optimism and always-on attitude is what drives the movie forward and
gives it heart.

This is one of Harrison Ford's funniest roles - he plays the grumpy,
I'm too good for this, I will do what I want and you'll just have to
deal with it, asshole extremely well.

The witty banter back and forth between Diane Keaton and Harrison Ford
is at times laugh out loud hilarious. I loved their chemistry and the
weatherman's antics were the beginning of when my ratings for the movie
started to go up. Once it all got going I thought to myself, "I'd watch
that morning show!"
<|_=00=_|>
It's no secret that people go to see movies touted as being comedies
for one reason, they want it to be funny and thereby make them feel a
little better, or at least lighten their mood. That's what I was
looking for when I went in to see this film. Thankfully, I was rewarded
with more feel good value than I had paid for. This film is terrific
entertainment.

I'll add that I enjoyed this film on a number of levels.

First, was the pure comedic value, which was high. Rachel McAdams owned
nearly every scene she was in with not just her
drop-dead-gorgeous-good-looks but with her well applied talent invested
into this somewhat quirky, high energy character. McAdams' Becky was a
finely crafted portrait of a warm, likable, very intelligent,
hyper-kinetic, lovable screwball of a young woman. Her every moment on
screen exuded lovable charm by the truckload; she's never looked more
appealing or more lovely.

But McAdams certainly didn't have to carry this funny film on her own.
She was ably assisted by some of the finest people in Hollywood in the
persons of Harrison Ford, Diane Keaton, Jeff Goldblum, John Pankow,
Patrick Wilson, Matt Malloy, Ty Burrell, Patti D'Arbanville and a long
list of equally great supporters. What a great selection of
professionals.

Ford was splendid as the emotionally parsimonious codger of an
over-the-hill anchor. Not to be outdone, Diane Keaton was as terrific
as ever in her turn as Ford's cynical, combative co-anchor; which she
carried off with a wonderful exuberance and energy.

Jeff Goldblum - who always seems to land roles as some kind of
"different" personality - was excellent as Ms. McAdams' crabby boss.
McAdams' colleague Lenny was well worn by John Pankow who seems to add
to everything I've ever seen him in. Patrick Wilson as McAdams' love
interest wasn't given much material to work with but his time on screen
was well spent, adding a quality performance in just the right place.
Ty Burrell was funny and at the same time kind of spooky as an
unappealingly unctuous departing anchor. Though a small part, it was
pleasant to see Patti D'Arbanville play McAdams' mother with
appropriate love and concern.

I saved Matt Malloy for last because he was an unexpected treasure. His
portrayal of the show's weatherman suddenly thrust into a new and
challenging role was particularly hilarious; the proverbial icing on
the cake.

The second area of enjoyment was the overall effort put into the sets,
art direction, sound and the other technical areas. Everything was
first rate which added to the realism.

Finally, their depiction of the behind the scenes areas of a hectic
television studio came across as spot on, actually heightening the
chaos that seemed to follow McAdams everywhere. You can't go wrong
seeing this film if you're looking for a fun night at the movies.

A big thank you to the makers of this entertaining gem! By Bruce L.
Jones http://webpages.charter.net/bruce.jones1/
<|_=00=_|>
At a loss of what to do, on a whim, I decided to go to the cinema.
Being the opening night of 'Black Swan', I decided to leave that
particular feature for another day. There were a few horrors, a few
kids movies and then there was Morning Glory. 

The Plot: Morning Glory is the story of one enthusiastic workaholic,
Becky Fuller (Rachael McAdams), who is fired from her job at a Morning
television show. Unemployed and desperate, she jumps at the offer of
Executive Producer for a low budget, failing Morning show. The
presenter of which, is the sour wannabe diva Colleen Peck (Diane
Keaton) and the employees of which are under constant pressure to raise
the audience ratings. Determined to prove her boss wrong, Becky Fuller
goes to great lengths to improve the standard. One of her missions, is
to employ world famous reporter, (and the third most horrible person in
the world) Mike Pomeroy (Harrison Ford) as co-presenter. 

My Opinion: There are some movies that leave you indifferent. You walk
out of the theater, shrugging your shoulders and contemplating what to
cook for dinner. Then there are those, that leave you with a definite
emotion. Morning Glory, for me, was the latter. As the closing credits
scrolled, I was inspired. I skipped out with a can-do spirit. Maybe its
due to Rachel McAdam's contagious radiance. Maybe its Harrison Ford's
excellent acting. Maybe it was the simple plot, and happy ending. I
don't really know. All I know, is that even now, the after effect of
this light comedy- was pure conviction that anything can happen, if you
work hard and really want it.

To put it plainly, this romantic comedy was a pleasure to watch. And an
excellent remedy for someone whose a little hopeless in these difficult
financial times.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came from a screening of this movie. I went in thinking total
chick flick and came away quite impressed. There is a love story but it
doesn't take up the whole movie and get heavy with it. The movie more
centers around an up and coming producer of a local TV morning show
that ends up at the lowest rated nationally syndicated morning show.
what entails is a humorous tale of trying to get the shows ratings up.

If I had not received screening tickets to this movie I probably would
have never have seen it in the theater but after watching this movie I
would have gladly shelled out $10-15 for a ticket to this movie. Well
worth the time and even better I got to go for free.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the screening of this movie last night and was pleasantly
surprised that this was not another "chick flick". The story focuses
around a young female producer that is hard working and hoping to get
her dream job of Executive Producer (EP) of a well known TV morning
show. Instead, she is accepted into the EP position on a failing TV
morning show. Dedicated to her career, which was her dream since age 8,
she has little time for men and romance. As the story progresses she
has countless obstacles she must overcome and a high amount of stress
that comes with the job. There are many comical scenes as the producer
is practically at wits end during the main duration of the movie. She
doesn't seem to lose her cool much of the movie, and when she does
become infused with anger or passion she is constructive in using it to
complete her job. This is a feel good story that shows with hard work,
dedication (following a dream since age 8!), a bit of luck, and having
faith in yourself, you can accomplish your goals. A nice change from
the current female lead characters currently out there.

I left the theater thinking about my own career and how I could improve
myself or work ethics. This movie is definitely a go-see!
<|_=00=_|>
"Daybreak" pokes pleasant fun at today's 3 morning TV shows and the ins
and outs of it and the world of television news broadcasting. It
portrays all types of news and society archetypes - the ambitious young
TV producer fired from her local TV station who wants higher ratings
(Rachel McAdams), the brash, no-nonsense, seasoned and substantial
anchorman (Harrison Ford), the perky female anchorman who smiles at
everything yet is not completely comfortable working with an anchor who
doesn't smile (Diane Keaton), the comical weatherman who breezes
through forecasts and does humorous on-air stunts (Matt Malloy), the
producer's boss who gets angry when things don't go well (Jeff
Goldblum), the on-the-job boyfriend who wishes the producer wouldn't
take her job too seriously (Patrick Wilson), the sexually charged
younger anchor who the producer fires right away before hiring her the
more seasoned veteran anchorman (Ty Burrell), and the producer's mother
in a small part who makes her aware of today's unemployment and
downsizing (Patti D'Arbanville). All these people and much more
elements make up "Morning Glory" and tells us about the world that we
live in today.

McAdams is young Becky Fuller, fired from her local TV station as the
producer in New Jersey, and then gets her big break accepting the job
of a fourth-place morning news show producer at a fictitious TV network
across from 30 Rock called IBS. That morning news show is called
"Daybreak," which relies more on style than substance. Right away,
after Becky fires the lecherous anchorman (Burrell), she meets her
childhood idol in the elevator named Mike Pomeroy (Ford). And as much
as she has loved him all her life from afar, he initially doesn't
reciprocate his feelings to her. She meets Colleen Peck (Keaton), who
despite her on-air smiles, has a tough edge. She spent 11 years on the
show and has worked with at least 15 anchorman, none who she really got
along with. Now Peck and Pomeroy meet, she smiles, he grunts, and they
eventually go head to head over their news styles. Ratings are close to
cancellation due to clashing anchorpeople in contrast to the friendly
repartee of Matt Lauer, Meredith Vieira, Ann Curry, and Al Roker, that
we get to see every day on "The Today Show," and the silly stuff played
on the show all the time.

After an important interview with the governor, where Pomeroy whisks
Becky to see the substance of his career, Becky is offered a job as the
producer of the always top-rated "Today Show," and feels that she had
enough of Pomeroy's arrogance and ego, and demeaning attitude towards
her. Predictably enough, Pomeroy loosens up and shares his secrets of
cooking frittatas, something he did share personally with Becky.
Ratings soar. We get that conventional happy rom-com ending just as we
are always manipulated to believe that the heroine and hero depart
after a quarrel in the third act.

"Morning Glory" won't be as Oscarworthy as "Network" or "Broadcast
News" since both have more substance in them. But despite the fluffy
nature (a word that Pomeroy avoids), there is more intelligence in this
movie than you would expect. The first rate cast of older pros (Keaton,
Ford, Goldblum) and younger rising stars (McAdams, Wilson, Burrell)
make it worthwhile, and deliver smart, sassy humor and snappy zingers.
<|_=00=_|>
Rachel McAdams is taking the lead this time in a rom-com that adds a
little pathos, shows the rest of the world what it's like to be totally
committed to a job (being a former workaholic, I can totally relate to
this.) The pace is set at "sprint" and actually does a great job of
going the distance. 10 cuts above a sit-com, but could possibly be
turned into a very successful one about a fictional struggling #4 slot
on the network morning show circuit. Adding to the mix and a lot of
credibility, Jeff Goldblum, Dianne Keaton, and Harrison Ford, looking
every bit his 60+ years, but still has a boyishness to his demeanor
that hearkens back to Star Wars and Indiana Jones. Patrick Wilson is
the rom in "rom-com" and he holds his ground against the whirling
dervishness of Rachel's character. The writing is outstanding and the
one-liners, priceless. Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Morning Glory is a splendid work of film making, comprised of a winning
storyline and characters we come to care about. Hats off to the
writers, as the script really gives the movie a shot of adrenaline and
reels you in. I consider it one of the year's finer comedies in an
environment where abrasive humor seems to draw people in droves. What
Morning Glory isn't is a romantic comedy or a "chick flick", as what we
are tending to see on the previews. Rather, a story of an executive
producer determined to turn around a dying TV show in comic fashion.

Rachel McAdams plays Becky Fuller, a laid-off executive producer
scratching and clawing for a new job in the industry. She comes across
a network station at the bottom of the totem pole and sees her chance.
Working with Mike Pomeroy (Harrison Ford) and Colleen Peck (Diane
Keaton) as her 2 co-hosts, the challenge just begins when she starts
her plan to increase the show's viewer count.

McAdams' character Becky Fuller is inspired, the hard charging
workaholic personality, on the laptop late at night searching for that
next breaking news story. Of course, by working all the time, her
social life is nonexistent. Her energy and optimism is infectious, as
she impresses us with on her first day taking many drastic measures
needed to make the station better. We come to root for her as she faces
complacency and apathy all around her, she rises above it and we watch
with bated breath to see what she'll do next. She is very diplomatic
and manages to deal with all sorts of personalities for the betterment
of the show.

Harrison Ford redeems himself from his role as a scientist in the
year's earlier flop "Extraordinary Measures". He portrays Mike Pomeroy,
the seasoned news anchor who only does the big stories. His comments
about famous people he's interviewed in the past and now has to do a
silly morning TV show arouse laughs. Pomeroy is the gruff seasoned
veteran of the show, stiff and stern, and brings a prima donna attitude
in with him -that he has standards and much of what is requested by
Fuller is simply beneath him. Pomeroy comes to change his character to
someone more likable by the time the film ends. Pomeroy's best moments
are no doubt when he is putting down his co-host. The adversarial
relationship between he and Peck is all too fun to watch. One of the
finer moments with Pomeroy we discover that his workaholic mentality
voided him of any close family relationships, and we feel for him,
hoping that Fuller will take his wisdom and adjust her approach.

Diane Keaton plays Colleen Peck, the primary face of the show, who has
been through all the changes over the years, including 15 different
executive producers. She is skeptical of Fuller because of how terrible
the show is and beyond help, and believes there is no hope. Peck is
lively and shoots back at Pomeroy's comments with her own zingers. She
is willing and receptive to Fuller's ideas to improve the show, and
shows us her zeal by stepping out on faith with the new changes.
Definitely one of the gems in the movie and a true pleasure to watch.

There is no doubt magic and chemistry in the air with the strength of
the cast. It is fun to watch Pomeroy drive Peck and Fuller nuts, and
the sparring co-hosts bring a lively and light mood to the film. We
come to care about what Fuller is trying to do, and root her on as she
encounters what seems to be insurmountable odds. This is a feel-good
inspirational story that builds from the very beginning, never
back-pedalling, with a minor romantic element added in.

8/10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
In that time between summer blockbusters and the full-on Oscar blitz is
time for Hollywood to take a breather. Sometimes the audience takes a
breather too. And that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Here we meet
Becky Fuller, trying to make the jump from local to network news show
producer. She is put in charge of an ailing morning program, and when
told that it is on its last leg, she takes the novel and bizarre step
of forcing well-respected television journalist Mike Pomeroy into the
co-host position via a quirk of his contract. and thus they are off
toward saving the show... A plot like this doesn't really have much in
the way of surprises. What really matters is how well the characters
are written and how well the actors play their respective parts. While
none of the cast is terrible, standing out are a low-key Jeff Goldblum,
playing a cynical network executive. While an over stated, loud
performance would have sufficed, Goldblum plays it a pragmatic working
guy. He gets in a few good zingers early on though. The other standout
is Harrison Ford. While he hasn't had much success in the field, he is
actually very good at comedy usually playing the straight man to what
is going on around him. Here he plays the gruffly lovable curmudgeon
pretty well. A significant part of the the plot is his character's
personal growth. On the whole, Morning Glory isn't going to sweep any
of the major awards, but it's a gentle way to pass two hours and get a
few good laughs in the process.
