
I'm loving this movie so far and am more than half way through it.
Don't pay attention to the haters.If you have a heart you will love
this movie. It may not be perfect, but the message is clear. It may not
be The Blind Side-but it's a different family.I can't imagine what it
must be like to go through what this family went through. I'm a nurse
and really appreciate a lot of the scenes especially the ones in the
beginning of the film. At least give this movie a chance and make up
your own mind. Don't let these negative reviews make up your mind for
you without judging for yourself. Believe me, I've seen MANY movies and
MANY of them I haven't even been able to get through the first fifteen
minutes. This is a good movie. It may not be an Oscar winner, but it is
a good movie about a true story, a real family and a community.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the negative reviews. Please watch this movie and
see for yourself. I thought the actors did a fantastic job. I have
never seen a father's love portrayed so beautifully as Aiden Quinn
showed in this movie. Men do not often show such tenderness but he
brought such an endearing character to life for me. Andie McDowell was
the perfect choice to play the mother in this film. You could just tell
how proud she was of her three sons and how hard she was holding on for
the entire family. I fell in love with all three of the sons and felt
the two surviving sons each brought a unique reaction to the tragic
loss of their brother. Bring a box of tissues and let all of your
teenage children watch this! We need to teach our children how one bad
decision can alter the rest of our lives and the lives of others that
we care about.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, ye of little faith. This film had flaws as almost any film does
but, there have been several criticisms about some less than stellar
acting. It is true to some extent. Truth be known, several participants
were the real people in the real world of the events that took place
from the actual story. I am always amazed by the reviews that seem so
opposite from agreement. This film dealt with the tragedy that
sometimes befalls only some families and it shows that families can
work thru their sorrows. I rate this film 7 stars because I know a
similar tragedy and I pray that you never have to walk with this
tragedy in your life. Quinn does an outstanding performance that
conveyed the pain and suffering of a father as did the rest of the main
cast. This is a heart wrenching story to watch but one with a valuable
lesson to share.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an amateurish movie. This is a waste of a "based on a true
story" movie. -Acting is halfway decent and is not helped by the poor
dialogue. -The background music/song selection is incessantly annoying
because it feels over the top and forced. -Scenes jump all over the
place and lack cohesion. -Even the sports part is about as unexciting
as you can get. I mean how can you screw that up? 

Basically it's a bad movie and this is coming from a guy whose a sucker
for this type of inspirational true story/sports genre. 

So in closing, is this a half assed review? Yes it is, but you know
what, I felt compelled to tell the other side after reading the only
other review which is clearly biased.
<|_=00=_|>
I had wanted to see this movie for a while, as I am a really big Aidan
Quinn fan, so I was thrilled when I found a copy today! But my hopes
were too high for the level of this movie. The story was solid, the
acting was decent, but the script was obviously an afterthought to the
football footage. The writers never really introduced the viewers to
the Abbatte family (what was wrong with the daughter?), gave very
little notice to the interactions and reactions of the family as a
whole regarding their loss, and basically didn't give the actors much
with which to present their characters or to move the story line. With
such a good story and a high-caliber cast, this movie could have been a
great one, but instead it pretty much just laid down with a whimper.
Next time, guys, "FOCUS" on the story, not clips of football plays and
cheerleaders. Really a sad treatment of a promising premise.
<|_=00=_|>
This true to life drama begins in 2006, when Luke Abbate(Stefan
Guy)accepts a ride home from football practice and ends up the victim
of his friend's reckless driving. The out of control vehicle spins off
a narrow rode at 90 miles an hour. Devastated parents,(Aidan Quinn and
Andie MacDowell)watch their son die of brain damage in the
hospital...only four days before his sixteenth birthday. The Abatte's
donate Luke's organs to five people. Big brother Jon(Ryan Merriman), a
junior at Wake Forest, begins to honor his brother by holding up five
fingers before the fourth quarter of each game. When the news spreads,
opposing players and fans begin doing the same. Was this the
inspiration that guided Wake Forest to win a school record 11 games and
a trip to the Orange Bowl? It doesn't take long to realize this was not
meant to be an award winner. Albeit poignant, sad and uplifting.
Dialogue not enough to brag about. Musical score at times irritating.
Acting is pedestrian and MacDowell, as usual, overacts. This a very
good movie for church groups. Inspiration can be found in tragic loss.

Other players: Michael Harding, Jon Stafford, Andrea Powell, Anessa
Ramsey and John Newberg.
<|_=00=_|>
first things first the older brother is a linebacker? smallest
linebacker I've ever seen. awful acting. sad story? ya sure but my god
is it cheesy. its a straight to DVD/ TV movie. don't waste your time.
if you want your football fix go watch Friday night lights. even the
story behind the name "the 5th quarter" made me laugh my ass off,
because the deceased brothers number was number 5. filled with football
stock footage that doesn't look legit at all. this could very well be
one of the worst movies I have ever seen. you can honestly make a
drinking game out of the cheesy cringe worthy lines but you would be
plastered before you even got half way through the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty good Faith-based movie. From reading other reviews,
some people don't understand that this movie is REALLY BASED ON A TRUE
STORY. I'm reading that some people are turned off by Merriman's hair.
Well that's because that's how the real player's hair was. I'm a Wake
Forest fan and I watched a lot from that season. They did the best they
could wit what they had. Scenes were filmed from campus and the
stadium. They did have to do some cosmetics (terrible) to the stadium
because it undergone changes since that season in 2006 (rename and
video screen.) The acting isn't too bad, a bit too dramatic at times.
Yes, some scenes weren't completely true, but that was the same for the
Blindside too. I don't know if any of you noticed but many times they
used actual footage from televised games. I didn't like how a lot of
the time they showed the same footage of the crowd, even if they were
at different stadiums, I could tell they use scenes from the same
stadium. Good movie overall though. Worth watching a least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry but have to agree with many of the other posters on here. This
movie had everything to be a great movie and started out really good,
but lost something as it went on. I watched it based on the trailer and
the fact that Aidan Quinn was in it (love him!) but I have to say I was
a little disappointed in it. It seems like they had a great beginning
and a decent ending but the middle lacked something. As far as the
acting goes, you have to remember that these actors are trying to
portray real life people as closely as they can and that may seem why
the acting was a bit off. This is a very good movie for teens to watch
so they can see the dangers of reckless driving and the importance of
being responsible.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Football Season again! And Fox Faith just released their film, The
5th Quarter to Blu-ray/DVD this week.

Storyline: When a close-knit family is nearly broken by tragedy, hope
is restored by their eldest son who carries the weight of victory on
his shoulders in THE 5TH QUARTER.

One of our KIDS FIRST! youth film critics reviewed it this week: "I
just finished watching The Fifth Quarter and I enjoyed it. It's about a
boy named Luke who dies in an auto accident because of drunk driving.
The story is really about how the family copes with the loss of their
15 year old son and brother.

I really like the character John Abbate, Luke's older brother, played
by Ryan Merriman. The acting is superb. He couldn't have done a better
job.

I would say that this movie is for kids 13 and up. There is one little
tiny extremely short scene showing some surgery that is disturbing, but
there is also a lot of talking and emotion and crying, of course. Any
kid younger than 13 would not appreciate that. However, older kids will
appreciate the amazing acting.

By Sam Connan, Age 13, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. Sam's review is
available at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CC90wSHTklg
