
TRON: Legacy has been one of the most promoted films of the year. With
a monstrous budget (around $200 million) and reports saying that Disney
is worried that the film isn't tracking as well as they'd hoped, the
initial thought process from these rumors is that the TRON sequel will
open to a disappointing first place weekend much like the most recent
Chronicles of Narnia film. As of this writing, I haven't gotten around
to seeing the original film. I wanted to, but thanks to Disney it was
pretty much pulled from every retail store imaginable whether you
wanted to rent or purchase the film at least until next year. The urge
to see TRON: Legacy didn't really sink in until around the time the
third trailer was released. While the Daft Punk score has interested me
from the beginning, TRON: Legacy just seemed like another overrated
piece of eye candy that fan boys were getting excited about. The thing
about first impressions though is that they always have the opportunity
to be wrong.

The glorified TRON sequel is getting a lot of mixed reviews from most
movie critics. The problem seems to lie within the way the film is
written and its screenplay. To tell the truth, you don't see a movie
like this for a great story alone. The special effects are the main
attraction and boy, do they deliver. The way programs disintegrate when
they're disposed of, the light cycle battles, airborne chases, and the
many fight sequences in the film are just a small example of the
dazzling display of some of the most exceptional and impressive special
effects ever seen in a cinematic feature. As with most films that have
been presented in 3D lately, the 3D effect probably isn't necessary to
enjoy a film of this magnitude. It'll be just as entertaining if you
save yourself the extra $4 and see it in a conventional theater.

The writing didn't seem as bothersome as much as other reports say. It
certainly wasn't the best, but it seemed like enough to add just the
right amount of depth to TRON: Legacy and give it more of a background
than most films revolving around spectacular special effects. There
were a few lines that bothered me. The main one being when Alan first
visits Sam and Sam says something about his father probably either
being dead or chilling in Costa Rica...or both. Wait, what? It just
gives you this Weekend at Bernie's flashback with Bernie being replaced
with Kevin Flynn's limp carcass. Some of the lines Jeff Bridges
muttered just made him seem way too much like The Dude from The Big
Lebowski, which seems awesome but really has no place in the TRON
universe. Saying things like, "Check this out," or, "Radical, man,"
followed by that stoner laugh of his really didn't help matters much.
The weak points of the way the film is written are rectified with the
way the film never lets your attention out of its choke-hold. You'll be
drawn to the screen the entire film; that's practically a guarantee.
The right mindset for a film like this can make or break your opinion
of the film. If you don't have inflated expectations and don't expect
much more than impressive special effects, then you'll probably walk
away pleasantly surprised. I actually had a similar mindset during
Avatar, which seemed to also suffer/take advantage of groundbreaking
special effects being more consuming than the story and had a similar
result.

The cast is about as developed as can be expected. The real star of the
film is Garrett Hedlund, who does a pretty decent job of carrying the
film and being generally astonished that not only was his father alive
but the extraordinary world he always talked about actually existed.
Jeff Bridges' performance isn't nearly as strong as his portrayal of
Rooster Cogburn in True Grit, but he does have his moments. He seems to
shine during his reunion with Hedlund and his strongest scenes are with
Hedlund alone while being rather flat the rest of the time. Olivia
Wilde's Quorra is interesting, as well. There's an intriguing twist to
her character, but her fascination and curiosity revolving around the
world Sam is from is what gives her character heart. Michael Sheen did
seem a bit too over the top at times as Castor, but that may have been
the point. The biggest surprise was seeing Cillian Murphy cameo. Given
his strong outings in films like Sunshine, Peacock, and Inception, it
just left me wanting to see more of his character in future
installments assuming this film does well enough to warrant a sequel
(or sequels).

TRON: Legacy is certainly the special effects extravaganza it's been
made out to be all year. Its fantastic effects certify the sequel as
being the most visually appealing film of the year. While the writing
of the film isn't quite as polished as the special effects, there
certainly seems to be a good enough balance to keep the film afloat and
deliver an extremely entertaining way to kill two hours. As far as eye
candy goes, TRON: Legacy is an incredible and all around awesome
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
And it was worth it.

I was 9 years old when I saw TRON in a dingy cinema in Fareham, I was
hooked then, and I always dreamed they would make a sequel.

I was seriously worried though, I mean, Escape from New York was
another of my favourite movies and I got all excited about the sequel
to that... and left the cinema mortified...

Not this time.

This was like an old friend coming home.

There are a lot of comments about this movie having a poor story,
personally, I disagree. It was a father and son story, any more on top
of the other sub plots going on would have been too much.

It's a hell of an experience for the sences... when those Recognizers
flew overhead the cinema shook... immersive, entertaining... everything
a good movie should be.

Roll on Number 3.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Flynn (Bridges) is the CEO of Encom and the world's best video
game developer. One night he simply vanishes without a trace and leaves
his company in chaos and his young son. Fast-forward 20 years, Sam
Flynn (Hedlund) is a rebellious 27 year old and a thorn in the side of
Richard Mackey (Nordling), a suit trying to take over his father's
company with the help of a software designer (an uncredited cameo from
Cillian Murphy). Though Sam is the heir, he refuses to play an active
role in the decision-making process. Alan Bradley (Boxleitner) meets
him one night with the news that he has received a page from Kevin
Flynn's arcade - a number that has been disconnected for 20 years. Thus
ensues the inevitable investigation into his father's whereabouts and
Sam's transportation into the world his father has created and been
trapped in for decades.

Where to begin? Tron: Legacy is a visual feast for your eyes and an
auditory pleasure thanks to Daft Punk and Joseph Trapanese. The
soundtrack feels ethereal almost and fits perfectly with this new world
we have been introduced to for the first time (or the 2nd time if
you've seen the 1982 original). 

3D, for me, is a recent scourge that has been infecting and affecting
the movie industry. Yes, maybe it is a more lucrative avenue for the
movie industry after the setback of heavy piracy but enough is enough!
Joseph Kosinski, however, had a vision (and an architectural degree
behind him) to give us a mouth-opening, simply beautiful world with the
correct blend of 2D and 3D! It is quite simply worth it just to go for
the visuals.

What the movie makes up for in spectacular imagery, it lacks in
storyline. Maybe I should have watched the 1982 version as so many
people have pointed out to me but even without it, the plot seems a
little disjointed. The underlying connections to the real world are
numerous such as The Holocaust, God complexes, evil doppelgangers and
more. You are left with more questions than answers as it is never
revealed just what it is about this world that would "change
everything" in the real world.

Jeff Bridges is great as both the villain and hero and his computer
animated self is simply amazing although at the same time off-putting
(this might be the Uncanny Valley hypothesis at work). The acting
overall is not anything to write home about (no Oscar winners here) but
Hedlund as Sam Flynn holds his own against a more charismatic Jeff
Bridges. Quorra (Wilde) provides a potential love interest and the key
to changing our world and a doe-eyed innocent view of life that is
endearing.

This is a movie that should be simply taken for what it is, a pandering
to the original fan base whilst garnering new ones, one not to be over-
analysed but simply to be marvelled at with a group of friends. The
actions scenes are just jaw-dropping with light cycles (that I wish I
owned!) and deadly Frisbees amongst other things. Disney took a risk to
continue a series almost 3 decades later rather than going for the easy
option of re-imagining it. A wise move.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen the original 'Tron', nor do I really know much about
it really. I've only heard the movie referenced on occasion (like that
one episode of The Simpsons where Homer's trapped in the Third
Dimension and he asks if anybody saw the movie 'Tron', and everyone
says "No."). The previews for 'Tron: Legacy' looked visually stunning,
and I'm happy to report it does not disappoint in that regard.
Everything seen inside "The Grid" is a wonder to behold, a visual
feast. But is this the only thing the film has going for it? Well...yes
and no. As far as the characters/actors who portray them are
concerned...

Garrett Hedlund is good as Sam Flynn. Yes, he has to utter some clunky
dialogue along the way and is a bit stiff at times, but he serves the
role well enough. At times he reminded me of Hayden Christensen as
Anakin Skywalker (what with the pulling out of lightsabers...I mean
discs, donning of cloaks, etc) - though not half as bad as him.

Jeff Bridges gives a solid performance as Sam's dad, Kevin Flynn. The
only thing that detracts from his acting is his digitised clone, Clu.
No matter how hard they have tried to create a youthful-looking Jeff
Bridges using computer magic, he still looks like a "cartoon" (as
someone in the audience put it). While it's annoying, it would have at
least been tolerable if it had been limited to just the scenes inside
The Grid. However, the movie starts in the the real world with a
"young" Kevin Flynn telling his son the story of Tron/The Grid, and you
can plainly tell the drastic difference between a real and fake Jeff
Bridges. It's so obvious, and very distracting. 

Olivia Wilde kicks butt and looks great doing it (in her skintight
catsuit with neon highlights and her asymmetrical wig) as the warrior,
Quorra. She seems to be having a lot more fun with this role than she
does with that of Thirteen on 'House'. Quorra has a slight naivety
about her in regards to some things, and displays a sense of childlike
wonder on occasion (especially the end), which gives her some depth.
Wilde and Hedlund share some good scenes together, and her character at
least gets *some* development - which is more than I can say for the
albino-like "Siren", Gem (Beau Garrett).

Michael Sheen is memorable as Castor. While he does tend to "ham it up"
a bit, it's nonetheless a delightful performance.

Apart from the animation of Young Kevin Flynn, there are a couple of
other 'minuses' of the film, like the dialogue (which is oftentimes
average) and the fact that the film itself does seem to drag in
spots/go on for a bit too long.

However, the visuals *do* almost manage to make up for most of the
film's faults (almost). The movie looks stunning - after we get past
the kinda boring beginning and are transported along with Sam inside
The Grid. Light Cycles, Light Runners, all mode of "Light"
transportation make for thrilling action/chase sequences. Then there's
the "games", that mostly seem to involve throwing discs - which
resemble Xena's round killing thing - at each other, causing those who
are hit to "derez" (ie. cease to exist). Another 'plus' for this film
is its excellent score. It adds SO much to the movie.

The film is entertaining enough, but probably not the non-stop action
some people are expecting/hoping for. If you're looking to kill a
couple hours watching something that's visually pleasing (but, at the
same time, may give you a headache/sore eyes thanks to the 3D), then
'Tron: Legacy' is worth checking out. Fans of the original may or may
not like this movie, I'm not sure, but I know that for someone like
myself - who's being introduced to the world of 'Tron' for the first
time - it was quite something.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: SPOILERS *****************

Visually, a feast, but a leisurely script leads to a muddled climax. 

A fan of the original since 1983, I had been looking forward to this
for a long time. The trailers & stills looked very promising. Sadly,
while it looks good, some questionable decisions have been made, and
the film doesn't seem to know what to do or where to go.

Some of the original concepts seem to have been dumbed down for
audience acceptance. Programs, formerly living a uniquely digital
lifestyle, sipping energy from pools, worshiping users, are now just
like regular dudes with funny clothes. They work, sleep, eat, drink,
and go to clubs. 

Perhaps this dumbing down is why this film poses more questions than it
answers. 

Why has the digital world taken on analogue characteristics like dust,
atmosphere & functionless water? 

Why do the digital Recognizers, previously smooth, humming machine
menaces, now have exhaust flames & jet engine noise?

Why do light cycles sound like they have gasoline engines? 

How can a totalitarian digital society have "homeless" programs (who
drink from brown paper bags yet)? 

Why do all the programs now leap around and pose exactly like Asian
martial artists? Just, why?? 

How were the Isomorphic algorithms going to change the world? 

How was CLU going to conquer the world with a bunch of computer
programs who were good at throwing disks?

When young Flynn switched off the server, was the world destroyed? (if
so, shouldn't he have waited, since (a) the threat had been stopped,
and (b) in case there were still some of those useful ISOs surviving,
especially since he (and the audience) have no clue as to how to use
them?) 

If hours in the digital world were minutes in the real one, and in the
real world it's been 20 years, does that mean that old Flynn had been
trapped for up to 1200 years? (which might explain why he's channeling
The Dude from "The Big Lebowski")

The biggest disappointment for me was the almost complete absence of
the title character. By the end of the film, I still wasn't sure where
Tron was. I had to read some summaries on the Internet to find out.

I would have preferred it if Tron, in his last act, saved the day.
Sadly, when he did (briefly) appear, he was ineffective and pointless.

I was a fan of the original Tron. Original ideas and logic have been
dropped for populism & eye candy. The subtle humor & in-jokes are
absent. This is a disappointing followup.
<|_=00=_|>
Right off the bat I'm going to say that I didn't see the first film.
Obviously I've heard from a lot of people saying that they need to see
the first film before watching this one, seeing as this is a direct
sequel to a nearly 30 year old cult sci-fi film. But, seeing that I
didn't have time, I decided to watch the sequel anyway.

Now keep in mind that Disney took a HUGE risk in making a sequel to a
movie that is not very often talked about when it comes to movies as
opposed to many blockbusters today. The first TRON had no famous
franchise to speak of (apart from the real games inspired by it).
Adding to the danger is the film's budget - reportedly between US$ 200
- 300 million. With that kind of money you'll wonder what exactly was
Disney hoping for with this film.

Nevermind the fact that the story is a bit unfocused and could be
rounded up in a more polished way. Nevermind too that the fantastic
world and great ideas aren't expanded upon some more, as well as the
fact that the script could use a little bit more originality.

Also, not forgetting some good (in Jeff Bridges' case, great as always
as he plays two very different characters with perfect emotional
resonance - proving that he still has the chops to carry a big movie)
performances by the cast - with Garrett Hedlund showing great leading
man potential and Olivia Wilde looking great and cute to boot. Michael
Sheen, Beau Garrett and Bruce Boxleitner (apparently returning to his
role from the first film, so it seems) all give good support.

No sir-ee, what you pay for - and what you get in spades - are the
special/visual effects. Goodness me, this is quite possibly the best
special effects I've seen all year, and that's saying something. I have
to admit though, the CGI that makes Jeff Bridges young look jarring,
but that is overshadowed by the compelling, groundbreaking
special/visual effects that really bring you into the cybernetic world.
Who doesn't want to take a ride on one of those fantastic, futuristic
vehicles? Who doesn't want those awesome light-cycles or one of those
dueling/data discs? It is possible that, like "Avatar" a year ago, this
film can be a game-changer for special/visual effects alone.

It's a real treat for the eyes, and it's even better in 3D which is
splendidly used to flesh out the dimensions and graphics of the cyber
world bring you even deeper into the world instead of things merely
flying out to you and post-production conversion like in SO many 3D
movies (Note that in the 3D version, there's a disclaimer before the
film starts, saying that parts of the film are filmed in both natural
2D and 3D as they way they should be. Just so you know, this shows that
the filmmakers care for what they want to give you).

Very ambitious architect-and-designer-turned-first-time-filmmaker
Joseph Kosinski hit a home run with this film, crafting an
extraordinary and spellbinding world of escapism that looks slick,
stylish and extremely cool to watch. Kosinski and the production team
fill the cyber world with heaps of imagination and the result is what
you see on screen. And here I thought Hollywood would recycle certain
design patterns (plot patterns still need work though). Kosinski is a
truly visionary filmmaker that one really has to keep an eye on.

The production design is on par with the special effects, it is nothing
short of spectacular and perfect. The cinematography which is big and
wide and best of all NOT shaky allows you to savor every moment of SFX
goodness. The superb sound effects serve to complement the visuals and
the electronic world, and all for the better. Daft Punk's varying but
atmospheric electronic/orchestral score all but suits the film's mood
perfectly with its techno beats and soaring string during moments.

Overall, this is perhaps a fine way to end the blockbuster season of
2010, and this is a definite must watch for all looking for an escape.
The special effects alone are worth the price of TWO movie tickets, and
with that I say, give this one a try, even if you haven't seen the
first one. It aims to entertain and to dazzle the audience, and it
succeeds brilliantly. Excuse me while I rent the first one now.

Overall rating: 75/100
<|_=00=_|>
A science fiction movie made by Disney seems interesting enough
especially when it's live-action and targeted for kids (Disney targets
its movies for kids, right?). And there it is, "Tron: Legacy", a
science fiction movie, Disney science fiction movie, live-action and
targeted for kids. And yet, 3D.

"Tron: Legacy" is actually a sequel to the 1982 revolutionary film,
"Tron" and marks the directorial debut of Joseph Kosinski. "Legacy"
sets Kevin's son, Sam Flynn, 27 years in age as the main character who
gets a message from Kevin (or so it is) from the world of Tron. He then
goes to Flynn's arcade, enters some sort of mysterious room and plays
with a computer which digitized him and entered him to the world of
Tron. Then, he fights with other programs trying to find his father,
Kevin Flynn who disappeared years ago. On the way, he meets Quorra,
some cool machines and of course, Clu (Kevin's program).

I watched "Legacy" and found it to be really good. The rendering of the
world of Tron was really breathtaking and got me in awe. All of the
world is definitely going to make "Tron: Legacy" one hell of a
blockbuster film and surely, one of the best films on the year 2010.

The acting had no problem. Jeff Bridges, after all those years since
the first film is still fresh as ever. Garrett Hedlund was also not a
problem in the film. Olivia Wilde as Quorra was stunning. The acting
was definitely perfect. Everything.

The 3D effects. This was one funny thing. In the beginning of the film,
it was noted that some parts of the film were in 2D and some were in 3D
and you were asked to not take your 3D glasses off. I did broke the
rule several times and saw something unique. Parts that were set in the
real world, not in the world of Tron were displayed in 2D and parts
that were set in the world of Tron were displayed in 3D. Anyways, the
3D worked pretty well. The Lightcycles in the film and all the things
in the world of Tron, displayed in 3D were awesome.

The score of the film was also exciting. (The soundtrack was also great
as it reached number 10 on the Billboard 200.) It was very awesome and
thrilling with all the bass and everything. 

Overall, "Tron: Legacy" is worth to watch. 3D works pretty fine in
watching this film. Young kids would not really like this but maybe
aged 8 and above would do. I believe this is the best film for December
2010 and is a good way to end blockbuster movies of 2010. Great job,
Kosinski. 

Prince AJB's Score: 85%

Thank you for reading my review on "Tron: Legacy" and hope it's useful.
<|_=00=_|>
I wouldn't call myself a TRON hardcore fan - I couldn't even crack a
single message from their website during their "Flynn lives" viral
campaign. Still, I know the movie perfectly well - I watched it on a
movie theater when I was 8 years old, and I simply could never get out
of my head the Recognizers and Lightcycles. I did master the
Intellivision Tron Deadly Discs game, and the movie jump-started my
love for all things computer related. I've watched the 20th Anniversary
DVD and all the extras far more times than I can care to count. Guess
I'm a TRON hardcore fan after all.

I had mixed feelings about this movie. On one hand, a sequel to TRON
made all the sense in the world - the original movie correctly
predicted plenty of concepts that we now take as granted (the
importance of a network, transports, I/O ports, security, etc.), so a
sequel could do something similar. The script could basically write
itself; back then, writers had one very difficult time trying to convey
the inner workings of a computer network to an audience that was not as
computer saavy as today (I'd say they sort of failed - TRON's weakest
part was its story). Also, Disney couldn't just hire everyone; they
weren't the powerhouse they are now, so they had to do with a scrappy
team of visionary but amateurish people. Now, with $300 million dollars
at their disposal, any actor they could ever want, all the technology
they could ever need, Pixar and their creative team, how could Disney
make Tron a failure?

If you want an answer to this question, just go watch Tron: Legacy. It
IS a failure.

Why? I believe that TRON, as näive and silly as it sometimes is, has
its heart in the right place - it always strives to tell a story, and
uses technology as both a backdrop and a principal character. It's not
technology for its own sake, either - the Lightcycles, tanks,
recognizers, and the complete universe of Tron really made you feel as
if you were somewhere else. It was completely unlike anything you had
ever seen before. The art depicted on the movie was so striking I think
it'll be remembered for years to come just because of it. And, as I
said before, it correctly guessed at the future of computing. I
wouldn't hesitate to call it a landmark movie, even considering all of
its problems.

Tron: Legacy is just another product Disney marketing decided to sell.
It has no soul whatsoever. It's not innovative or inventive - most of
the things you'll see come from other, more successful movies.
Examples? The aerial pursuit near the end of the movie is lifted
directly from Star Wars. The bar scene is a near perfect copy of the
one on Matrix: Reloaded. The attack scenes are also lifted from the
Matrix. Jeff Bridges is The Dude in a cybercostume. The rebel kid
hacking computers seems like a copy of Terminator 2. At no time did I
think to myself "this is something I had never seen in my life", as I
did with Tron.

Furthermore, there's no story of any importance whatsoever behind all
the CGI. The original TRON dealt with issues we face nowadays in any
computer network (well, at least if you are a geek and work with
computers). Tron Legacy doesn't even make any effort to predict the
future, or to point out at any risks technology poses to people in the
XXIst century. It's a completely disposable product, which is sort of
enjoyable when you watch it, but can't bear to think about it
afterwards. Because it really makes no sense and it doesn't make any
important points.

I cannot believe Disney couldn't get someone - anyone - capable of
writing a good script, hiring decent actors (Sam Flynn was TERRIBLE)
and getting a director with at least a couple of good movies under his
belt. The only reason why I give this movie a 7 is because, even though
you've seen everything before, it does look great on the big screen. I
especially liked CLU - I never noticed I was looking at CGI. Awesome
technology.

I'm completely positive this sequel will go down in history as others,
such as Blues Brothers 2000, the Star Wars prequels, and Matrix:
Revolutions as one of the worst ever made. Sad. It had so much
potential it's incredible they actually blew it.
<|_=00=_|>
Tron is on it's way to become the most over-rated movie of 2010. It's a
candy-wrapped insult to intelligence, as well as to the original. 

First, the visual effects. Although they look stunning in their
all-black-and-neon style, there's not much original about them. It's
chases and fights like we've seen a zillion times before. The worst
thing is that most original idea from the original Tron is dropped. In
the 1982 version, the light bikes were making sharp 90º turns without
losing any of their phenomenal speed, really like electrons moving over
the grid of a computer chip. It gave them an unpredictable and
dangerous feel, and the impression of an eerie universe where normal
laws of physics don't apply. In the new Tron, however, everything looks
much more realistic. The bikes ride like normal bikes, planes fly like
normal planes, and people die like normal people. Except for the fact
that they disintegrate into little square pieces... Whoo, surprise!
What is supposed to be a world of competing digital programs, is just a
dark street with people walking around in funny dresses and plastic
umbrellas. Yes, it even rains, and there's bums with (how modern!)
plastic bottles. The good guys are white, the bad guys are red. Except
for that eccentric (read; gay) disco owner who turns out to be a
traitor... No, I can't say I've been visually surprised once.

Then the story. It's the kind of script that does away with reason.
Facts are stated in sentences like "My disk is the key!" or "The portal
is only open for 8 hours!" or "It will change the world! Science,
quantum mechanics, religion, everything!" without explanation. The most
ridiculous are the "ISO's", some tribe of digital people who 'just
appeared out of nowhere', whose last surviving chick becomes of major
importance because daddy says she must -at all costs- become human. All
for no apparent reason, other then filling a void script. But our
adolescent hero doesn't need reasons or explanations, because all
solutions to his problems are handed to him on a silver platter anyhow.
When the going gets rough, there's always a car or a train or some
pretty girl appearing out of nowhere to take him exactly where he has
to go. All he has to do is comply. It's no adventure, it's plain
boring. 

But sometimes it looks nice. And the abundance of little stupidities in
this film, like the paper pig they're having for digital dinner, make
it funny. So I guess you could say it provides an enjoyable evening!
<|_=00=_|>
It's not highly likely to win many new converts, but for those who
already like the original and want to see more of that world, it more
than satisfies. The visuals are a wonderful evolution from Tron and the
story of a father and son who have to make up for lost time is very
touching. The CGI face they developed for Jeff Bridges is not perfect,
but it works very well with just a few exceptions and I feel, for my
own tastes, that they have actually bridged the uncanny valley with
this one. Still a bit of work to get it perfect, but this one works as
it is. Oh, and the score by Daft Punk is beautiful. The first thing my
brother and I did after leaving the theater was buy the sound track on
the way home. It's very suggestive of the original but with plenty of
today's newer sensibilities mixed in.
