
This is a connoisseur's movie. It needs to be consumed slowly and
deliberately to truly enjoy everything that has gone into it. Watch it
carefully, there is a lot going on under the surface.

Yes, it's a thriller, and as such parts of it are fast paced, but what
it does so well is to misdirect your attention for a while before
snapping you back to focus.

There are no wasted words, nor gratuitous scenes in this movie. Just
like a Hitchcock movie, the scenes are all necessary, even if they are
symbolic.

The acting is first rate, and I say that because much of the tension in
the movie comes from the way the characters act, not special effects,
not plot points hammered in over and over again.

It is a very dark movie, and the darkness is nicely set off by humor
and sarcasm in a few spots.
<|_=00=_|>
Roman Polanski's 'The Ghost Writer' bears the most in common with his
recent 'The Ninth Gate'. The comparison starts this review as many
others will inevitably find some comparison to be made with the
director's work, especially since his personality looms so large.

The plot has been described countless times and will be spared here.
What instead fascinates is the depiction of Ewan McGregor as the
nameless protagonist. He has no family, no real attachments so to
speak, and no real drive. Like Johnny Depp's "book detective" in 'The
Ninth Gate' his reason for existence seems to be to serve those higher
in society. McGregor plays the party well, never completely convincing
in one state or the other. Even when under duress his physical
movements speak much more about his mental state than his mannerisms.
This could be interpreted as Polanski's examination of apathy within
larger society. What I mean by that is to say that it is through the
Ghost's lack of interest that one can observe the world.

Shot by Pawel Edelman, who has collaborated with Polanski in the past
as well as with other heavyweight Polish filmmaker Andrzej Wajda, the
images of 'The Ghost Writer' suggest a cool bleakness. Accompanied by a
poetic score by the always reliable Alexandre Desplat the film suggests
a constant looming menace, embodied by the rain of the New England
island. The camera often remains static, sometimes zeroing in for
reactions, but always showing a complete action through a singular
movement or lack of movement. Often times the characters seem resigned
to their fates. The roles each person plays in the story are very
clearly defined. Former-PM Adam Lang (Pierce Brosnan), surrounded by
his lackeys, anti-war protesters, etc. all seem just pieces of grander
scale. Polanski's world view is so thoroughly and crisply represented
through this visual style it is as if the individual events are not as
important as the atmosphere in general.

This is precisely why the film works, because of a director so in
command of his craft. The film runs over 2 hours but every decision
feels completely blocked and planned out. Every image carefully
composed, every moment of information tightly plotted. 'The Ghost
Writer' works terrifically by raising your blood level in this manner.
Some will inevitably complain it makes the film seem merely serviceable
when such expected plot twists occur. Yet I can think of few filmmakers
so readily able to create such a vivid world and sustain it greatly.
There are some pacing issues and the music can be overbearing. These
are not unlike the problems facing Martin Scorsese's 'Shutter Island'.
The talent of all involved makes the film exceed a workmanlike thriller
even though the atmosphere on set was so mathematical.

A very enjoyable, meticulous film that demands and rewards patience.
Worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
The key word here is suspense, the perfect blend of a director at the
peak of his powers, a script that beautifully works with a source
without diluting its essence or compromising its subject matter, and
with a timing so perfect that no false note is hit, enrapturing its
audience, never letting go, pushing its limits as the audience awaits
its incredible resolution.

McGregor plays a hired writer who comes in to assist Lang (Brossnan) in
the publication of his memoirs. Timing couldn't get worse as an
unexpected complication ensues and many people's lives and reputations
are suddenly in danger. As the film reaches its conclusion, with
tensions and levels of paranoia reaching unheard limits, it's got our
attention, and it has earned every bit of it.

The quality of the writing is impressive, with no false moves, no red
herrings, no unnecessary distractions, no manipulations to sway you one
way or another. What we have is a mix of intrigue, action,
Shakespearean drama, and performers who might never be this good again.
Polanski channels Hitchcock at his best, using Desplat's driving score
(himself channeling Herrman), and just when it all could have been a
tribute, it soars above its inspiration.

Among so many impressive elements, one has to mention the note perfect
and outstanding Olivia Williams, an actress that has moved on from
being physically alluring to developing acting talents which could rank
her with Streep and Close because of her impeccable and powerful turn.
Here is a woman who hardly resorts to gimmicks, but takes the most
normal of situations and weaves a wave of intrigue that would leave you
breathless.

"The Ghost Writer" is a mystery, a thriller, a tribute to the masters
who inspired the genre and might even surpass all those sources of
inspiration. The film mixes politics with an old fashion thrills and
makes us wonder why Hollywood hasn't made movies like this more often.
It's early in the year, but it's going to be hard to find anything that
can even come close to this movie, a film that is as perfect as
anything any director has ever put together, Hitchcock included.
<|_=00=_|>
Got to see this at a pre-release screening and wound up chewing my
thumbnails down to the quick with the tension!

Though I am a huge Roman Polanski fan (of his work, not necessarily the
man) I haven't really been crazy about any of his films since "Death
and the Maiden" ("The Pianist" was technically superb but left me
cold). At last, my patience has been rewarded.

"The Ghost Writer" is a stylish, edge-of-your-seat political thriller
that, on the basis of suspense, twists, corruption, and an ensnared
hero unable to grasp the enormity of what he's up against, can be
looked on as a contemporary companion piece to Roman Polanski's
"Chinatown." It's Polanski reveling in the art of skillful
storytelling, and at age 76, it's clear he has not lost his touch. 

Collaborating with author Robert Harris from his novel "The Ghost"
(film title expanded, no doubt, to avoid misleading Polanski fans who
would assume a return to the supernatural) Polanski has fashioned a
real nail-biter that, thanks to the solid performances and deft
plotting, plays extremely well whether you like politics or know much
about foreign policy.

Ewan McGregor is a writer hired to ghost-write the memoirs of a former
British Prime Minister (Pierce Brosnan) after the previous collaborator
commits suicide (maybe). Almost immediately life begins to get, shall I
say, complicated for McGregor as he is shuttled off to a spartan,
fortress-like mansion on the American East Coast to work on the book
and there encounters a catalog of the kind of slightly-off kilter
characters that Polanski casts and directs so well. There's the
unsettlingly mercurial Prime Minister, his caustic wife (Olivia
Williams, who, simply put, steals the movie out from under everyone's
noses), the icy assistant (Kim Cattrall, better than I thought she
could ever be), and an entire corps of strange and secretive supporting
players, all the better to keep you guessing just what is going on up
to the absolutely socko conclusion. 

Can't say what readers of the novel will think of the film, but as
someone who went into the film ignorant of the plot, I have to say it
was a real thrill ride and held many didn't-see-that-coming surprises.
So many of Polanski's trademark themes are showcased (black humor, a
preoccupation with "foreignness," paranoia, the pervasiveness of evil),
but best of all, it's a pleasure to see an intelligent thriller that is
extremely well acted.

The look of the film is as chilly as the underlying message, and the
cast is populated with some startling casting choices very well used (I
would have liked to have seen more of Eli Wallach, though). 

There is much to recommend in "The Ghost Writer," not the least of
which being that Nicholas Cage (originally cast) dropped out before
filming!
<|_=00=_|>
I can not help but wonder if many viewers are biased by the fact that
this is a Roman Polanski film. In my opinion, it was sophomoric in its
execution. Really quite terrible... and I am not generally a harsh
critic of movies. The story line had so much potential, but the
execution failed. Here are my criticisms: 

(1) Ewan McGregor's character is completely unbelievable. It is
unconvincing that an ordinary guy/ghost writer would take up the task
of solving a high-profile, super-secret murder within the course of 3
days that he has been working with the Prime Minister. And not only is
that premise hard to believe, the lines he delivers and actions he
takes are so ridiculous. He naively trusts everyone (the PM's wife, the
Paul Emmett professor, the PM's enemy Rycart) despite the fact that his
predecessor was suspiciously murdered... carelessly sharing the secret
photos (badly photo-shopped, btw) and incriminating evidence, even
though he is being chased by unknown "bad guys". The writing and acting
makes his character completely unbelievable.

(2) There are two primary sub-plots (the PM's war crimes charges and
the CIA connection), but the stories are not effectively woven together
or fleshed out... and neither are made very intriguing or compelling. I
left the film thinking, "OK, so I understand the CIA connection now...
but how is that actually intriguing? And does it have anything do to
with the war crimes plot line? Was the war crimes thing just completely
irrelevant?" 

(3) Some of the writing is so dumb and careless. For example: The Ghost
Writer discovers the supposedly top-secret CIA connection to Paul
Emmett simply by Googling it.... unreal! The bedroom scene with the
Ghost Writer and PM's wife, and their relationship after 2 days of
being together... unbelievable! Also, the Ghost Writer solves the
mystery within the text of the book by simply connecting the first word
used in each of the first few chapters... so unimaginative! And then he
passes a note to the PM's wife at the public book launch with the
secret discovery (with Paul Emmett at her side, who has claimed all
along not to know the PM)... seriously?! And at the end when Ghost
Writer gets hit by the car, since it seems that the CIA had a car
waiting exactly for that purpose (despite the fact it was a complete
shock that he figures out the secret)... so stupid! 

I really wanted to like this film and it started out good, but quickly
went downhill... and seemed to pick up bad momentum all the way to
until the end. I wish I knew how so many positive reviews have been
written. I am baffled.
<|_=00=_|>
Polanski does some of his best work in a long time in this
nearly-flawless and beautiful-looking film. Engaging story, interesting
characters, incredible mood and sense of place (amazingly, locations in
Germany substituted brilliantly for Martha's Vineyard -- having spent
some time on the Vineyard, I was completely convinced that's what I was
seeing, forgetting during the film that Polanski wouldn't have set foot
on U.S. soil), more implied violence than any real screen violence (for
those who like suspense but stay away from thrillers because of worry
about violence, don't worry) -- it's all about suspense and intrigue.
Every shot is gorgeous. Fun references to CHINATOWN, and especially
Billy Wilder's SUNSET BOULEVARD. Lovely performances by Olivia
Williams, who is sexy and vulnerable, Pierce Brosnan, the absolutely
always brilliant Tom Wilkinson and an extraordinary cameo by Actors
Studio legend Eli Wallach (he still has the chops!). The ending caps a
perfect film perfectly, and the MacGuffin is great fun. If you like
vintage Hitchcock, and especially if you like the best work of
Polanski, don't miss it. I'm ready to see it again and watch how it's
put together.
<|_=00=_|>
Ewan McGregor gets rid of every ounce of glamour and allows his
Polanskian character to emerge. I though, a few years ago, Polanski
could have played him himself the way he played so beautifully in "The
Tenant" Those two characters are not that far apart. Taking over an
apartment or a job from someone who leaves the scene under very
mysterious circumstances is practically the same thing. McGregor,
however, is superb. In "The Ghost Writer" events play close to the
knuckle. Who is Pierce Brosnan? Tony Blair? and Olivia Williams?
Classic film-making at its best. Compelling and visually stunning. The
score by Alexander Desplat reminded me of Bernard Herrman and the
atmosphere is so thick that the film's 2 hours plus fly by at an
amazing speed. Polanski at 77 doesn't show any signs of jadedness. He
is in total control. Hurrah for that!
<|_=00=_|>
Polanski is a master of subtlety, grace, and wit. His eye creates
breathtaking and beautiful shots. His ear adds a malevolent and
demented humor to the score of a film. There is most always something
unspeakable, indescribable beneath the surface of a Polanski film.
Something unnerving about the tone but never overbearing, or pounding
the audience over the head with it. This is certainly true of The Ghost
Writer. What I found surprising, not being familiar with the novel on
which it is based, was the political statement being made. Humorously
portraying certain key figures in the political environment of the last
decade. In any other hands, this could never have been done so
believably and deftly. All the key performances are on target. And how
could they not be. For Polanski knows how to work with actors and guide
them in creating such memorable characters. Ewan McGregor certainly
fits his role seamlessly as does Olivia Williams. So many could learn
from Polanski how a thriller needs to be constructed in order to hold
an audience to the very end. The word entertainment means to 'hold in
between' which is what The Ghost Writer does from beginning to its
haunting and inevitable conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to see this film without any prior knowledge of what it was
about. I kinda like that when I see a movie... I only knew that Ewan
McGregor was in it and that was good enough a reason for me. The first
two things that I noticed in this film was the cinematography and the
score. I thought that the cinematography was beautiful and the settings
were stunning. There was a reason why everything had a certain look
about it. The opening music at the beginning was also another hint that
something is quite off through the whole movie. This isn't going to be
a run-of-the mill mystery story; this is so much more.

Without giving away anything, there is so much to see and speculate on
when you are introduced to the characters. I didn't realize until the
very end of the film that you are never hinted as to ANYTHING about The
Ghost. More than once I was going over in my head to try and remember
what his character's name was, but to no avail. Ruth's character is
something else completely compelling and curious. Truly brilliant
characters in this story.

I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who is looking to go
see a truly amazing and cerebral film. It doesn't mess with your head
in the way Shutter Island did, but it makes you think and it really
leads you down every single road of the map, all at the same time.
<|_=00=_|>
Instead of using fast cuts and other modern cinematic gimmicks, Roman
Polanski's The Ghost Writer relies on an involving story that deeply
immerses us in the experience, a tribute to his immense skill as a
director. Based on the novel Ghost written by Robert Harris, the film
is about an unnamed author (Ewan McGregor) who is hired to complete the
memoirs of former British Minister Adam Lang (Pierce Brosnan) after the
previous ghost writer was found dead, his body washed up on a beach in
New England.

Although it is a suspense thriller, The Ghost Writer also makes a sharp
political statement, creating a main character that very much resembles
former British Prime Minister Tony Blair (Harris, himself was a strong
supporter of Blair until he broke with him over Britain's participation
in the war in Iraq and Blair's subordination to U.S. foreign policy
interests). Because Polanski was banned from the U.S. because of an
event that occurred 32 years ago, the film was shot in Germany and its
depiction of Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts is recreated on the
island of Sylt in the North Sea.

Opening as a ferry disembarks suspiciously leaving one car behind, the
film establishes a mood of unease and danger from the outset, aided by
an atmospheric score by Alexandre Desplat. People talk about the
drowning of the previous ghost writer as being either an accident or a
suicide yet, like many CIA-assisted suicides, it is suspicious right
off the bat (or off the boat) and the new author soon finds himself
buried in intrigue when he visits Lang in his security-entrenched
compound on the seacoast.

McGregor is a blank slate, an ambitious young man presumably just out
to take in a huge paycheck but after reading Lang's autobiography and
finding it to be a "cure for insomnia," he is determined to have the
former Prime Minister share his life and work in a more authentic
manner. The writer is invited to stay in the compound where Lang
resides with his very articulate and somewhat bitter wife Ruth (Olivia
Williams) who suspects his assistant Amelia (Kim Cattrall) to be his
mistress. McGregor's autobiographical work is interrupted when he hears
in the news that Lang has been accused of war crimes by a former
minister and is being investigated by the World Court.

To appear to be engaging in business as usual, Lang travels to
Washington in a private jet owned by a company with a name similar to
Halliburton, where he is defended against the accusations by a State
Secretary who looks very much like Condoleezza Rice. At home, however,
protesters show up on the island together with hordes of press and Ruth
has to turn to the author for some physical and mental solace as the
plot swoops and dives into unpredictable twists and turns that keeps us
off balance until the powerful conclusion.

Heading an outstanding cast, Brosnan delivers a strong performance that
strikes the right balance between fear and arrogance and McGregor is
also pitch perfect. Winner of a Silver Bear in Berlin for Best
Director, The Ghost Writer shows Polanski at the top of his form and in
total control of the medium. Even though he had to complete the final
editing of his film in a Swiss jail and under house arrest in
Switzerland, the fact that it still bears the stamp of his genius is a
tribute not only to his art but also to his character.
