
I just felt compelled to post this because somehow... and I can't even
begin to understand how... people and even professional critics like
this movie. I don't get it. I loved Evil Dead and I still don't get it,
because this wasn't campy -- it was just bad. Seemed thrown together
very quickly, with a few scenes stripped whole from Evil Dead 2 and
some of the worst writing ever... It just didn't feel like camp. It
felt like dreck. And the ending was telegraphed so early in the film
that the last 30 minutes were almost physically painful to watch. And
yet... the Washington Post said the ending was a shocker.

If this wasn't a Sam Raimi film, no one would even have suggested it
was supposed to be funny. They would have just figured that it sucked.
Maybe that's his joke on everyone, after all.
<|_=00=_|>
Drag me to Hell is, really, a throwback in so many ways to the fun of
The Evil Dead 2. The camera angles, the excellent score - it all
recalls how Raimi played with us in his earlier trilogy. What has
changed however, is the sense of pace. We know its coming and Raimi
employs all his skills to draw out the tension. The thrills are all
there in place, I jumped like there was an electric buzzer under my
seat. Perhaps a little too much CGI is indulged in but its easy to
forgive in a film as wicked and blackly comic as this. I genuinely
found the film disturbing for a 15 as well, again I think this is a
mark of tension that Raimi creates with the score and camera work
throughout the film. So incredibly refreshing to see a horror film with
out the hallmarks of the recent saw franchise. Special mention for the
ending, which has conviction and guts and was the proverbial cherry on
top of the cake. throughly entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Drag Me To Hell is exactly what it should have been. It effortlessly
takes a dump on 90% of the rest of the horror movies this decade has
offered us. 

In 2009, we are flooded with brainless remakes and Saw rip-offs, which
was never a great series in the first place. Only Sam Raimi (the king
of horror in my opinion) has the power to bring a completely original
horror movie back to the big screen in this day and age and capitalize
with it. 

It was one of the most intense movie-going experiences I've had in some
time and I see it as a wild ride that no one should miss out on. It is
guaranteed that you will be either jumping or cringing in your seat
half the time, unless you are one of those people lacking heavily in
the department of sensitivity and/or general thought processing. 

The movie is entertainment and horror fun in it's purest form. 

A lot of people complain about CGI, and in a lot of cases I agree, but
in Drag Me To Hell, they were never trying to hard with it - it was
always in good fun and in a movie paced like this, with it's
Sarcasti-Horror, it is certainly fitting.

It is, without question, a new horror classic - thanks to it's basic
yet innovative plot, likable blondie, loads of bodily fluids, and an
ending you will not forget. 

Let's hope Hollywood takes some hints and allows studios to start
making original horror movies again.

Thank you Sam Raimi. Loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
The early trailers for Drag Me to Hell dubbed it as (sic) "the return
to classic horror", and for once at least, they are correct.

Sam Raimi manages to incorporate genuine thrills and terror using the
old-fashioned format of surprise, misdirection and suggestion. As a
frequent viewer of horror films, little surprises me, but in this film
I was caught off-guard several times while watching it.

While the majority of the movie is kept on a serious and foreboding
level, much like the original "Evil Dead", Raimi can't help but throw
in elements of the absurd and slapstick during some of the more
horrific scenes, thus reducing the tension and echoing the latter 2/3
of the "Evil Dead" trilogy.

WHile I have nothing against the modern trend of horror movies to
provide shocks merely in the form of how much blood and gore they
spill, this flick was wonderfully refreshing. It's a must-see, not just
for Raimi fans, but for anyone who loves a good scary story and a great
movie in general.
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing the trailer to this movie I expected to go in and have a few
scenes that were ones that made you jump. But I also expected the movie
to have something scary in it that made you think when you left the
theater.

If you are looking for cheap thrills, LOUD music, and stuff jumping out
at you constantly then this is your movie. I found this movie to be
extremely predictable, especially the ending.

The séance scene was laughable. The guy hanging in the air "dancing the
jig" was one of the dumbest I have seen in a LONG time. And the
"cartoonish" talking goat was a joke. The SFX in this movie were worse
than a Saturday night sci-fi channel B-movie. It was a serious WASTE of
money. We had a free ticket, and I feel even that was wasted on this
movie.

giving this movie a 3 out of 10 is even being generous.
<|_=00=_|>
And by rating I mean the "PG-13" one. Seems like you can get away with
murder these days with a PG-13 rating ... Seriously though: While this
was one detail that got discussed quite a bit, even before the movie
came out, many "fearing" (no pun intended) that Raimi had lost his
touch and had gone "soft" on them.

Fear no more (or actually do so, while watching the movie), because he
hasn't. This movie is showcase of what Raimi is capable of. Sure you
might not like the movie for various reasons, but Raimi does know how
to build tension (and torture his protagonists apparently ... ask Bruce
"Ash" Campbell and now the lovely A. Lohman) ... and serve as the good
stuff. Disturbing images and a nice score, neatly edited and shot. One
of the best Horror movies of 2009.

Sometimes it didn't get the recognition it deserved, sometimes it did
(it just won another prize the other day). Of course there are flaws.
Mr Jeepers Creepers (Justin Long) himself, reduced to a bystander for
example. But in the end, it delivers fully on what it promises ...
<|_=00=_|>
Apparently this studio has deep enough pockets to pay people to come
here and rate this film highly. This is a 6 star movie AT BEST! It has
its share of spooks but they are short-lived. And the cliché's? Where
do I begin?? They had me and everyone else around me checking the
time... and I was in the last/ top row... could see everything. Sighs
were coming from my right and the people to my left were getting
restless. I wanted to ask someone else the time; hoping that my phone
had jammed and this "picture" was farther along than it seemed. Go into
it expecting a Comedy with shocks & frights but you won't be losing any
sleep. The ending was a surprise albeit lame... I mean... you'd think
someone would check before going through the trouble of digging up a
grave...
<|_=00=_|>
After surrendering to the temptation that was Drag Me to Hell, I
jokingly announced to a friend that it was 1/3 horror, 1/3 gross, 1/3
funny and 100% fun! Yet as wholly cheesy as that proclamation is, it is
no less true. Ultimate B movie director Sami Rami's first horror film
in years, having dedicated himself to the Spiderman franchise, succeeds
in putting almost all recent horror films to shame. Drag Me to Hell
proves that an R rating is not needed for shock scares, nor does a
PG-13 rating mean that the film must feel stunted and incomplete, only
that it takes a dedicated and competent director to pull all the
elements together.

I recently called 2009 the-year-of-the-almost-good-horror-movie, with
films like Friday the 13th, The Haunting in Connecticut, My Bloody
Valentine, The Last House on the Left et al, simply not measuring up.
While I am still hesitant to drop that moniker, the thrills Drag me to
Hell brings to the horror genre certainly improves the spread. Aside
from the tantalizing premise itself, Rami masterfully constructs
atmosphere and amazes even further with a rousing and terrifying score
and an absolutely chilling use of sound. Many tense sequences drift
between an eerie quiet and a cacophony of anguish born from everyday
objects and occurrences such as pots, the wind and garden gates and
this is the very best part of the film, even if some other elements
don't measure up as aptly.

As a alluded to, aside from Rami's fan base the real reason you would
be drawn to this film is the premise; and hell dragging there is. The
unsuspecting victim is a young loan officer named Christine Brown
(Allison Lohman) who in order to secure a spot in the managers chair
denies an elderly lady a third extension on her mortgage. But her
timing could not be worse, as the gypsy mystic curses her to burn in
hell for her shameful display. Christine now has only three days to rid
herself of the terrible curse, garnering the aid of a psychic, Rham Jas
(Dileep Rao) and her boyfriend (Justin Long) while trying to ward off
the tormenting demon on her remaining days. Lohman is very good in
this, creating a character of equal parts spunk and sweetness. Long
seems tailor made for a Rami film, as his ability to drift between
comedy and drama is a huge asset and is excellent as a result.

The only real determent I found in this film was the ending, which I
will not spoil. It was actually a rather odd feeling that came over me
when the credits rolled as usually a sub-par ending leaves me either
infuriated or disgusted. Drag me to Hell's ending left me feeling
mostly indifferent and numb to the events of the entire film by which
it was preceded. Many will disagree with me and I am glad, as I
thoroughly enjoyed the film and wish the ending had satisfied me
accordingly. But the good certainly outweighs and bad and this schlocky
gross and funny horror flick is very re-watchable, and above all
unique. If Rami can still turn out quality B movie thrills after all
these years, perhaps there is hope for liberation from the true hell;
which is the Hollywood horror scene of today.

Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
From the intense opening scene to the stellar and shocking finale, Sam
Raimi has officially returned to the horror genre with vigor and spark
in the year's best horror film so far. Starring Alison Lohman in the
leading role (Ellen Page was originally cast as the lead but dropped
out of the project early in production), Drag Me to Hell feels like
much more than your average, predictable horror popcorn flick. It's
filled with plenty of twists and turns and, like any good ride, a
satisfying conclusion. And the PG-13 rating? Forget about it! You
hardly notice that little factor because of how immersed you become in
the story. Also starring are Justin Long, David Paymer, and Lorna
Raver.

Christine (Lohman), a loan officer at a bank with a lovely boyfriend
(Long), is being considered for a promotion. Jumping at the
opportunity, she comes across an old gypsy woman (Raver) who requests a
third extension on her house. Her boss (Paymer) tells her it's a tough
decision, and its her call, so she refuses the woman's payment.
Absolutely infuriated, the woman stalks Christine after work and
bestows her with a supernatural curse, one which she has only three
days to overcome before the spirits drag her to hell.

Lucky enough to have won tickets to a pre-screening of the film, I had
heard nothing but great things about it. I was hoping for the best, but
I wasn't sure how the comedy and horror would mix together. Much to my
surprise, the horror and comedy in Drag Me to Hell are that rare
perfect mix of perfection that one craves in horror movies. If too
funny, they can go overboard, but not this one. In fact, I don't think
I've seen quite a proper mixture since Raimi's own Evil Dead II.

Perhaps the most shocking thing about the movie is how well it's made
technically. It had all sorts of interesting shots and the real work of
a master filmmaker. Having both written and directed the film, Sam
Raimi more than proves his worth to the horror genre despite his long
absence since Army of Darkness. In ways, this is also a sort of revival
of what people with think of PG-13 horror movies. Drag Me to Hell is
one of the most intense, scary horror films in quite some time, despite
the PG-13 rating which many tag as already crap.

Drag Me to Hell is full of its epic shocks, and the less you go in
knowing about it the better. I could go on for hours about the movie
and spoil everything there is to know, but that would truly ruin some
of its appeal. Which is certainly not to say that it is lost after a
first viewing, just that it's an experience unlike any other going into
this movie watching virtually no clips and reading very little about
it. It becomes a truly rewarding experience.

Mrs. Ganush is one truly phenomenal villain that provides plenty of
scares. Lorna Raver infuses the role with an enthusiasm - an terror -
that is rarely seen in big-screen baddies. She has more personality
than The Ring's Samara for sure. Clay's character provides a
much-needed balance between the goofy and the horrific, and helps make
the film's heroine, Christine, all the more believable. It was an
interesting twist to see Justin Long in a horror film, despite the
nature of his role. I believed his performance and the sincerity of his
character. Lohman had a lot resting on her shoulders with this movie,
and she totally pulled it off with flying colors. Nobody plays the
terrified, but headstrong and determined female lead better than
Lohman, and she proves her worth over and over again in this movie. She
totally has a career ahead of her.

Overall, Drag Me to Hell did more than just impress me nonstop. It was
a masterpiece of a horror movie, with unrivaled intensity, scares, and
one killer of an ending. More often now, horror directors/writers seem
to have such a difficult time ending their movies properly. This one
has an ending which snugly solidifies the movie as an early contender
for best horror film of the year. Don't miss Drag Me to Hell... you
will never look at handkerchiefs the same way!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm still trying to find out why everyone thinks this film is
wonderful.

First off, we have no storyline. We don't know if this film is funny or
scary, the acting is at best 10th grade (and I'm a huge fan of Alison
Lohman) I think everyone is forgetting about the fact that there needs
to be a strong storyline (it doesn't have this. It has an idea, a
concept, but never is fully developed, unless you think the old
fashion, standard cop-outs work), good acting and most importantly,
characters that you care about.

The characters make no sense. The girl can kill her cat, but not give
away the object to foist this horrible thing onto? Where's the logic in
this? If she is so focused on herself to kill her cat, when she's
stating she's a humanitarian, then she should have no trouble passing
along the button to some miserable slime. So, when did she develop
morals? Secondly, plot??? Story?? Hello??? Evil Dead had a strong
storyline. This does not. in fact, this movie seems to have had an
idea, and was made off an idea, and did a typical, Hollywood cop-out
ending instead of thinking of a valid way to make this film wrap up in
an intelligent way.

Don't waste your money. Go see Knowing. At least the story in that film
is strong, original and to me, unique.
