
When I started watching this movie I had my doubts,due to lack of
reviews and even rating...so I expected just another "below average"
movie just to kill my time. 

But from the very beginning I got the feeling it wouldn't be an
indifferent film!This is a movie about ethics in its actual sense.Not
just about religious or political debates. It should stimulate every
user who likes to think.

It has action,drama and even politics,all given to you in a way that
not only won't bore you,but will actually make you want it to last a
little bit longer...At least that's what happened in my case and to all
4 persons I watched it with! 

Acting was good as well.If this movie had a bigger budget and
well-known cast would definitely have been a movie everyone would talk
about! 

If you like movies with both interesting plot and good direction,take
my word and watch it.It won't let you down!
<|_=00=_|>
Somewhat in the same genre' as the film "Traffic" which takes the
viewer into the extremely dark world of human trafficking of kidnapped
children sold to pedophile clients, "Inhale" takes the viewer into the
dark world of "no questions asked" human organ trafficking, sold into
the medical black market.

There's no fooling around, fluff or frills in this film.

Right from the start, the viewer is plunged into a contorted realm of
existence, faced with horrific choices that have to be made under the
worst of imaginable circumstances.

Desperate parents, hoping against hope for a donor lung transplant,
while their daughter is inching ever closer to death, faced with a
seemingly illogical and unfair organ recipient listing system, realize
that they have to resort to other "outside the box" options,
immediately.

In the real world, this is a scenario that is all too familiar for
countless thousands of parents, who, regardless of expense or effort
needed, will travel to various clinics outside the USA, to save their
children from otherwise certain death. To cater to this need, there are
many parts of the world where, for the right price, the desperately
needed organ(s) in question magically appear on demand to the highest
bidder.

All things considered, this film does deliver a bone chilling dose of
drama under duress, and then some.

The only part that I felt seemed to be a bit weak was the ending, which
was tailored more to suit a politically correct message, rather than
deliver a realistic rendering of what would actually happen in such
circumstances.

Having said that, however, the casting and acting in this piece fit
into this story like a hand to a glove. I had no trouble in suspending
disbelief while viewing this film, as I personally have traveled around
a bit and have seen first hand what this sort of scenario looks like.

I give the director a lot of credit for trying to deliver this view
into a world mostly hidden from the general public, via this dramatic
platform.

As previously suggested, this film is not for the squeamish or faint of
heart.
<|_=00=_|>
Put simply this is a very good movie. At first you might think wow,
made for TV but no, it just starts with a simmer and gradually begins
to boil. Before you know it the protagonist has departed from
everything he so clearly believed in with his attempt to save his
child, only to be forced to reconcile with who he is at heart when the
ultimate tests are placed upon him. 

This is the type of film that 10 years ago would have owned the box
office but today, they're a gamble. Unless you stick a product name
like Russel Crowe or Tom Cruise in it, it's hard to say which way it
will go. It also reminds me of how the grading curve has changed due to
the collage of genres we know get in a single film which is probably
one of many reasons films are now so often struggling at the box
office. 

It is kindred to films such as 8mm, Man On Fire, Patriot Games etc. If
you enjoyed those, I'm pretty certain you'll enjoy this movie equally
as much.
<|_=00=_|>
INHALE is a fine little gripping drama from writers Walter Doty and
John Clafin who based this timely tale on a story by Christian Escario
about the extremes to which people will go to when terminal illness
takes the mains stage of their lives. It is a very dark story but
survives becoming morbidly dreary by the sensitive direction from
Baltasar Kormákur and a strong cast. 

Paul Stanton (Dermot Mulroney) is a successful attorney married to
Diane (Diane Kruger) and they have one child Chloe (Mia Stallard) who
suffers form a terminal pulmonary disease. The family's life is driven
by love but also by the fact that Chloe needs frequent emergency trips
to the hospital because of her tenuous hold on life. Paul and Diane are
finally told Dr. Rubin (Roseanna Arquette) that the only choice they
have for saving Chole is a lung transplant. Paul searches the methods
for finding an entry into this overcrowded demand for organ transplant
and when he discovers that a powerful man James Harrison (Sam Shepard)
received an illegal heart transplant in Mexico, Paul sets out to find
the source. In Mexico he discovers just how crime-ridden is this area
of 'sales' and persists until he uncovers a doctor Navarro - a code
name - in the person of Dr. Martinez (Vincent Perez). The hideaway
compound where the illegal transplants are performed is surrounded by
poor people and gangs and the one person that helps the desperate Paul
find the source of illegal organs is a kid who befriends him. When a
'donor' becomes available, there is a decision that Paul must make, one
based on human kindness and compassion balancing with his won desires
to deliver lungs to his daughter. 

Mulroney is particularly excellent in this tough role and the gamut of
emotions is staggering. And the remainder of the cast, including the
gifted Jordi Mollà in an important cameo, is superb. The film is
intense and disturbing but successfully explores the little known world
of illegal organ transplantation. Another fine feather in the cap of
Icelandic director Baltasar Kormákur! 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is generally good. I don't know why some reviewers have
focused on the incredulity of the story. I think this movie makes a
good rental. It is a bit of a hard viewing, not just because of some
violence or sex but because of the overall subject matter itself. I
thought that the director kept the focus on the story.

When I checked for the reviews I was surprised that it did not have
very many reviews. I think the producers and director should be given
some positive feedback because this movie did appear to deliver as a
movie. 

There are some intensely annoying loose ends. So ignore the first ten
minutes. If it was not for this I would have given this movie 7 or even
8. Since the story was not cleaned up in the beginning it gets only 6
out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of Inhale is quite ridiculous. A notable prosecuting
attorney puts everything on the line because he's heard rumor of a
"Doctor Navarro" who can obtain illegal organs. In search for a new
pair of lungs for his dying daughter, said attorney completely abandons
the subplot of defending a sex offender (never to resolve that issue)
and he leaps across the border into Mexico on a journey into the
underworld to find a new pair of lungs. Do you remember that old movie
Hardcore with George C. Scott? It's basically that, except instead of
plunging into the seedy pornography industry to find his kidnapped
daughter, our hero dives head first into some mythical Mexican organ
dealing crime syndicate that is every bit as sleazy. Some very violent
and sexually explicit events result, giving this one a strong R rating
if not an NC17. The implausibilities pile up but somehow, with the
tense direction of Baltasar Kormákur and some fine bad ass acting from
Dermot Mulroney, what could have been a laugh fest turns out to be a
very engaging, edge of your seat thriller. Smart subtle touches like a
few seconds of our man clipping the stitches on his forehead with
toenail clippers gives Inhale the feel of a real big screen
blockbuster. And an extremely disturbing moral debate develops as we
have to wonder why this man's daughter's life is more important than
those who are getting killed in his pursuit to save her. The moral of
the story is be careful what you wish for because you just might get
it. Will he do the right thing at the last moment? You'll have to watch
to find out. This is a very gripping film. I enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
What would you do? Your daughter is about to die, your family is
breaking apart and your wallet is big enough to afford a human life.

This is basically what this movie is about. As boring that this story
starts it really changes fast to an affecting one for everybody who
watches this movie. When life saving decisions all of the sudden fall
into the hands of a father and a mother of an seriously ill child you
should expect to see heartbreaking drama. If then heartless people get
involved you should even expect some fireworks. This is basically what
you get here.

I seriously recommend this movie to everybody who doesn't wanna see
another softened Hollywood ballyhoo and instead likes to ask themselves
questions about life and how they would react to certain decisions.
<|_=00=_|>
The basic premise of this film does not give reason for very high
expectations --- dedicated parents with child in distress, how far are
they willing to go, and what do they need to do in order to save their
child. In this case, the child needs an organ transplant, and as the
usual channels do not seem to be able to save her, the parents need to
get creative about procuring a suitable organ in some other way.

This is fertile breeding ground for loads of cheese, contrived story
lines, and emotional vignettes. And even though you can see the end
coming from quite a bit away, and even the movie isn't entirely free of
cheese, it's a dark and gritty movie that explores its subject without
too much sentimentality and isn't afraid to look where standard
Hollywood fare might not.

The solid story is helped along by a strong cast led by a great
Mulroney (who seems to be expanding his range with every work I see him
in), and it pains me to say that even Diane Kruger (whom I otherwise
enjoy to slam) turns in an excellent performance, as does the
interesting supporting cast (Arquette appears somewhat underused, it
wouldn't be surprising if a good deal of her material ended up on the
cutting room floor).

At some point in the film you realize that no matter which way things
go, the ending won't be a very happy one. To me, that is where I see
the true strength of this movie, and I find it much more important than
the particular road the story ends up taking (and which seems to have
made many viewers rather unhappy judging from the discussion boards).
To be sure, I like the ending, and much prefer it over its conceivable
alternatives, but the real point remains that our protagonist had
arrived at a situation that no longer admitted a 'happy' resolution.

Definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
This film got no press but it is well-written, has a great
cast/performances, and an ending that's a knock-out. Dermout Mulroney
gives a dynamic performance as a father who is pushed to the brink to
help his dying child. Diane Kruger is equally as good as a mother
squeezed to the breaking point. The film is intense and fast-paced. The
direction is FANTASTIC. The Music is well-done and the art direction
sets the tone. Rent it. You won't be sorry.

The story is about a young couple who's daughter need a lung
transplant. Everything seems hopeless until their Doctor gives them a
lead that takes the desperate father into Mexico, to buy his way onto
their donor list. But what he finds both surprises and shocks him. And
he is faced with an impossible choice. IT IS A GREAT MOVIE!
<|_=00=_|>
Fast paced movie with a good plot.The movie talks about the illegal
part of heart transplantation and how they do it. the casts fit the
role exactly and the movie doesn't lose its objective or story
anywhere. The emotional part in the movie is touching. the movie enters
the story in the very first scene itself. The scenes are properly
edited and there is no confusion in any of the scenes. The movie
catches its speed once the hero enters the Mexico. From there on the
furious story of illegal heart transplantation begins. The hero too
goes there to find a heart for his daughter who ails from serious
asthma problems.She needs an immediate transplantation. But the hero
faces a great piece of challenge, Ethics. In the last scene , he faces
his own moral values against saving his daughter. Watch it. Its worth
watching.Its actually good!
