
Shutter Island. A film that will divide the film community. A film that
will leave many upset, and hating it. A film that has already
completely split the critics. A movie that messes with you. And no one
likes to be messed with. And that is exactly where it exceeds. Think
I'm contradicting myself? 

Shutter Island is one of the most well crafted psychological thrillers
to come by since Silence Of The Lambs. And it is no coincidence both
were brilliantly written novels. Shutter Island is adapted by a book
written by Dennis Lehane (wrote gone baby, gone and mystic river). It
is a book filled with twists and turns, that will leave the reader
dizzy. And, that is what it's film counterpart does to the fullest.
Martin Scorsese helms the director chair, in a movie where he is more
free than any before. This is Scorsese at his most unrestrained. 

Marty takes what he has learned from the great films of the past and
puts it into his. The master of suspense Alfred Hitchcock's influence
is everywhere you look in this film. And it is no wonder, considering
Scorsese even showed one of his greatest works to the crew: Vertigo.
And many of those ideas are present in Shutter Island; the cliff scenes
scream Hitchcock. This is a film that creeps and crawls, and is filled
with dark corners. And it is all heightened by the coming storm that
looms over the island. This is classic film noir. 

The story follows Teddy, a federal Marshall, and his partner Chuck
(Played by DiCaprio and Ruffulo). They go to this mysterious island
enveloped in fog to investigate an escape. From these opening scenes,
Marty has set up a dark and creepy premise. 

Almost the whole movie incorporates this story as Teddy desperately
tries to find the truths he seeks. Teddy is shown as a scared man; a
man of war and violence as portrayed in various flashbacks. These will
go on to be increasingly important as the story progresses. We follow
Teddy on his quest, through every dark corridor and perilous
confrontations. Slowly, we are given pieces to the puzzle, but the
audience does not even realize it. For we, like Teddy, are blind. For
the moment at least. It is because of this that the thrilling
conclusion will leave many blindsided. But, you see, that is where this
thriller becomes something more. We as the audience are put in Teddy's
shoes, and we feel all the things he feels. It is a complete assault on
the senses, and it works beautifully. 

This is a film you must watch carefully. That is another thing that
sets this apart, it is a horror film that makes you actually think. In
this day and age, I'm not surprised some found it terrible esp. after
their brains have been turned to mush by these new gore filled horror
films. Scorsese's ultimate goal here is to wake you up. And trust me,
you probably wont like it. 

This is also a film I would recommend seeing a second time. In fact, it
is even better the second time. All those pieces of that puzzle you
didn't catch the first time, you will the second. You see, we as the
audience are first put in the shoes of Teddy. The second? Well, without
giving too much away, lets just say you are put in someones else's
shoes entirely during the second viewing. 

Shutter Island. A film that will make you question your own sanity. A
film that will leave you breathless. A film that has re-ignited the
thriller genre. A film that will leave you, and the main character,
searching for answers. 

10 out of 10 

-CLS
<|_=00=_|>
There is one line of dialogue, right at the end of Shutter Island
before the credits roll, that elevates the emotion of the film and
makes it much more powerful. For those of you, like me, who read and
enjoyed the novel before seeing the film and felt that the trailers and
advertisements for this film were leading you to believe there wouldn't
be any narrative surprises in store, think again! Scorsese's film
features that one brief piece of dialogue at the films conclusion that
results in an entirely different perception of the final act. The rest
of the film, however, is very faithful to Dennis Lehane's already great
story.

Shutter Island represents exactly what one should hope for when seeing
a novel being interpreted to film. While it certainly does the source
material justice, it also adds small changes that make for a
distinctive experience. Even if you've read the novel multiple times,
you'll feel like you're reading the book for the first time again while
watching. Scorsese perfectly recreates the menacing atmosphere of the
island on film. Every location is foreboding and drenched with hints of
unseen danger in dark corners. The lighthouse, the caves, the civil war
fort housing "the most dangerous patients," and the island
itself--every locale seems large yet claustrophobic and isolated at the
same time.

I often experience claustrophobia myself and there are certain films
that really capitalize on that personal fear and make it more relevant
and eerie to me. Neil Marshall's The Descent was one such picture, and
this is another. An confined island is a terrific horror location and
it comes with its own type of fear. The utter desperation to escape
from a persistent and confined nightmare is something Teddy (Dicaprio)
is receiving in high doses, and so does the audience.

As with Scorsese and DiCaprio's previous collaborations, this is a
movie that must be seen. Here they explore the horror/thriller genre
with gravitas, with no small part played by Laeta Kalogridis in
supplying the screenplay. While most modern pictures of its kind lack
character or any real sense of suspense, Shutter Island doesn't go for
cheap gags. I concur with Ebert when he says one of the key elements to
this film is that it releases its tension through suspense instead of
mindless action sequences. That's not to knock a well-deserved frenetic
scene of violence every once in awhile--it works to the advantage of
some films like Evil Dead II and Planet Terror--but had Teddy and Chuck
gone running and gunning through the facility's faculty, the mood this
movie keeps in check so well would have been lost.

However, that mood isn't sacrificed and "spooky" is punched up to full
force. A considerable amount of that spooky is generated by a "best of"
collection of actors that have mastered the art of creepy: Ben
Kingsley, Jackie Earle Haley, Ted Levine, and Max Von Sydow just to
name a few. Had Tom Noonan been thrown in the cast as well, my "Top
Five People I Would Not Want to Be Left in the Dark with, Especially in
a Room with No Doors or Windows" list would have been completely
exhausted. On that note, is it just me or has Sydow mysteriously not
aged since The Exorcist? Was there a secret pact made between Lucifer
and Father Merrin? Whether he sold his soul or not, he's quite ominous
in every single scene he is present in. All of this great talent in
front of the camera doesn't mean anything though if you don't have a
faithful orchestrator behind it. Luckily you have Scorsese leading the
lens and he points the movie in the right direction, even if this isn't
among his very best works. His style works amazingly with suspense
laden projects and at times he even seems to channel Hitchcock and
Kubrick, though there's always something distinctively Scorsese about
the presentation. I found the editing in the opening scene, with Chuck
and Teddy approaching Shutter Island, to be very odd and frantic,
though I think the audience will know why Scorsese displayed the scene
the way he did after completing the film.

With a body of work so impressive, Shutter Island is among captivating
company. The good news is that Shutter Island carves out a place of its
own in his resume. While no Goodfellas or Raging Bull or Taxi Driver, I
have no problem placing Shutter side by side The Last Temptation of
Christ and Bringing Out the Dead. The cinematography is bright and
gorgeous. Scorsese doesn't rely on the over-grainy, ugly presentation
that most modern horror or suspense-riddled thrillers rely on. He uses
lush, bright color during daytime and dream sequences to flush out a
distinct feeling of terror.

Shutter Island isn't just a pretty face, its also got a great story to
boot and this is why I've been anticipating the film for so long. As
mentioned earlier, I've been exposed and digested the source material
myself before seeing the movie. I was worried the trailers for the film
were giving away too much through their spots on television and on the
silver screen, but Scorsese has added enough to the film for the story
to feel fresh even for those "in the know." You are transferred in the
films paranoia and phobia once the camera pans through the mental
facilities open doors. Lehane is one of the luckiest authors on the
planet to have his work adapted to the big screen by talents such as
Eastwood and Scorsese, but his work is brilliant and deserving of such
treatment.

At the risk of spoiling plot points for potential viewers who have not
read the book, I'll leave a Related Recommendations section concealed
in "Spoiler" tags. Discussing this story at any length can be quite
revealing.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw Shutter Island this evening, just prior to its American
release. I have to say this film was full of intrigue. Prior to viewing
this film I had built a preconceived notion of what this thriller was
going to be like because I was fooled yet again by good marketing when
watching the trailer. This is probably not the movie for your average
film-goer who wants an easy plot line to follow and little thought
required. This movie does challenge the viewer physchologically and
definitely holds your attention all the way through. For someone who
was never much of a Leonardo fan, his performance is brilliant, so much
range to his character. In fact all of the acting in this film is
excellent. The directing is probably the best quality to this film. I
always enjoy watching a film that is as unpredicatable as this film and
where the director has turned the plot line on to his viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, Scorsese should just give it away for anyone. The man is one of
the most brilliant directors of our time. Anyway, let me get to the
actual movie; I just saw it at a early screening and have to write this
while I'm thinking about how stunning it was. Shutter Island is
certainly not a typical film, not even for Scorsese. It is a different
take for the director, and he does it, as he does every film,
perfectly, so much as to be in his own league of film-making. I don't
want to give anything away, but I will say this: Shutter Island was
completely unexpected, and a great start to 2010. It had all the
components of a great film, and then some. The acting is spot on from
every character; none of it seems forged or out of place. The script is
fantastic; it has one of the most intriguing plots I have seen in a
while (exception being Tarantino's Basterds). Everything, down to the
set's lighting, was perfectly executed. I will say that not everyone
will like this; Shutter Island, again, isn't your typical movie. To
those, though, who do choose to see this film, be ready for a
compelling, gripping, thought-provoking experience, so much so that you
might think to see it again for further clarity (I know I will; it was
so entertaining and my mind was blown!). Don't be surprised if you see
this at the next Oscars...
<|_=00=_|>
From the look of the trailer, Martin Scorsese's "Shutter Island" looks
more like a horror film This is a dangerous place where isolation
rules under fascist control. A U.S Marshall is sent to an asylum to
investigate a missing patient but discovers so much more. A demon? A
ghost? Something more? Is this going to be as disappointing as I think
it is?

I was skeptical walking into the theater, wondering if this twist could
hold water. The film starts with Teddy Daniels and his new partner,
Chuck, standing on a ferry. They talk about their assignment. What's
suspect here is that there is no additional development. We are bam,
smack right into the story without so much as an opening montage. All
that we see is the men smoking a couple cigarettes. Though this is what
begins as momentous development. As our hero smokes we that this isn't
the glorified top lit smoking of a beauty or that of a sophisticated
and confident gangster. We see that this is a harsher character with
poor posture, someone who doesn't sleep well, someone with a deep past

They are greeted at the gate by guards whose attitudes' seem
immediately suspect. Soon we meet Dr Crawley, a seemingly complex and
modern man who runs the asylum. However, he soon turns uncooperative
with the investigation. Inmates and staff are hiding something but
what? Everyone here seems off. Evidence and clues begin to appear but
not before our hero seems riddled by psychosis himself. "You act like
all this madness is contagious." Daniels says to the guard. Is it? Soon
we begin to wonder, too, but not before he uncovers the tip of the
iceberg and it's not only painfully intimate with his own past but also
a mass conspiracy. The Nazis had concentration camps and the Americans
have Shutter Island.

Though, it doesn't stop here, but to say anything else would do the
story injustice Kingsley is in his finest role in years. Similarly,
DiCaprio reaches new levels. Amongst others Elias Koteas, Ted Levine,
Michelle Williams, all play small but wonderful roles. Robert
Richardson captures a world all of its own.

While Scorsese is a master of film I'd say that his specialty has been
more character than story. This is a fresh balance of both. It's a mix
of noir and thriller. It's only sort of a horror movie and could be
compared to "The Shining" but it makes it look like it's a one trick
pony. 

All this praise being said it's not for everyone. The story is complex.
It takes some attention. At times it's a bit bleak and dire. Of course
it all makes a little less sense when you actually think about it but
then again that's film. There are a couple of moments where the story
gets lost within itself. Things become a bit too complicated. At this
point you might begin to lose faith in its viscosity, but don't worry
because the story has you right where its put you.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally, a horror/thriller that actually, genuinely scares the crap out
of you. Not because it has fancy villains in masks or sadistic buckets
of gore throughout. No, it scares you because it messes with your mind.
Most will hate this movie, they don't like their brains being tampered
with. I loved it. It's what we needed after all those gory R-rated and
sometimes lame-duck PG-13 horror crap-fests.

The horror/thriller genre has been raped lately, with gore and scantily
clad- women replacing the noir and terror that Alfred Hitchcock
perfected in the '50s and '60's. Here director Martin Scorsese delivers
in full blast, crafting a thriller in his own unique vision. The
atmosphere throughout the movie is tense and unsettling. Slow as it may
be, but it is crucial to the movie and it's genuinely gripping. Your
attention WILL not be lost. The scenery is beautiful and finely done
with no excessive lighting, grain or darkness. The editing by Thelma
Schoonmaker is fluid and pitch-perfect, and never makes the film lose
focus. The movie is based on a book by Dennis Lehane and is packed with
twists and turns that will leave you breathless and uneasy. The movie
cranks the breathlessness and uneasiness up to the power of 5. The
music is also perfectly suited with the scenes. There is sometimes no
music during suspenseful moments, and sometimes the music makes the
scene even more disturbing and memorable. Alfred Hitchcock's noirish
thriller style is back with a vengeance, here to teach today's
moviegoers the REAL meaning of suspense and horror.

All the actors in the movie are in top-form. Once again, you can't go
wrong with a Leonardo DiCaprio/Martin Scorsese collaboration. As the
protagonist, we the audience are thrust into his shoes and we are about
as confused and scared as his character is, we feel what he feels. It
becomes a psychological trip that poses many, many questions about
oneself, that to discuss them here would spoil the entire movie. There
are some flashbacks in the movie, but all of them are important clues
to DiCaprio's character. DiCaprio gives a stunning performance, once
again tempting the Academy to give him another Best Actor nomination.
DiCaprio gives a vivid portrayal of a vulnerable, haunted and
ultimately terrified man. Apart from DiCaprio there's really not much I
can say about the supporting cast, because they are all also terrific.
Ben Kingsley; Mark Ruffalo; Michelle Williams; Max Von Sydow; Jackie
Earle Haley; Emily Mortimer; Patricia Clarkson; Ted Levine; Elias
Koteas; John Carroll Lynch. All of them.

In short, this is a psychological and frightening masterpiece that will
make you scared, will make you think, and will make you seek
psychological help. This is one of the best films of the year. See it,
go in with an open mind and prepare to be blown away.

Overall value: 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this and I knew what to expect going in to the film as I had
already read about half of the book but never got the chance to finish
it. But I was surprised at how faithful the film was to the original
material.The directing was also masterfully done and pretty cool I saw
some cool camera tricks I hadn't seen since Martin Scorsese directed
Bringing Out The Dead, Martin Scorsese did one great job and everyone
was top notch especially Ben Kingsley and DiCaprio and I never though I
would jump out of fright especially in a Scorsese film but I did. All
in all a solid thriller with a good story and some great performances
and for me it's the best film I've seen in 2010 so far.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese has done it again. He pays attention to every detail in
this film, making "Shutter Island" one of the best suspense thrillers
of all time.

Visually intriguing, simplistic and absolutely phenomenal. The story is
kept simplistic enough so it doesn't get absurd, but allows for an
ending which you probably won't see coming. The film doesn't go for
cheap thrills, so although you will be on the edge of your seat you
won't get needlessly scared.

The film uses everything at its disposal from breathtaking scenery, to
detailed laid-out shots, and to actors at their finest to completely
engross you in the film. I loved every minute of it and highly
recommend it to everyone. Even if you're not a usual fan of the genre,
this film has so much more to it.
<|_=00=_|>
Similar to my rating for this film, you can argue that 9 out of 10
people who watch this movie, it will not be their first Scorsese film.
Most of us know the genius that he is and coming into this showing we
should expect brilliance, and gladly he delivers a captivating
storyline driven by great acting. Unfortunately with the release of
Shutter Island was also a press release that Taxi Driver may be remade,
so that news made me hesitant to care, but I'm glad I was wrong.

Shutter Island is the story of Teddy Daniels, A U.S. federal marshall
sent to the island with his partner Chuck Aule to search for the
disappearance of a patient. Each scene provides a turn against their
leads and compels them to look for more whilst searching in places we
couldn't comprehend, including their minds. Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark
Ruffalo feed off each other and supply great performances for their
characters as expected, but some of the other characters whose names
are riveted on the posters or marquees are sensational as well. The two
that stuck out to me most were Ben Kingsley (Dr. Cawley) and Michelle
Williams (Dolores, Teddy's wife), each of whom brought so much
dramatics and new questions to the movie, developing plot twists and
controversy. I don't think this film would be the same without them.

Even to begin explaining details of the plot and how everything comes
to fruition causes me to feel migraines alike the ones Teddy gets in
the movie, therefore I won't ruin anything for you now. Take my honest
word that if you enjoyed any Scorsese movie in the past or have enjoyed
movies that include surrealism, Shutter Island combines the two into an
intense thriller that boggles the mind and possibly even "corrode it,
rusts it". Also, if you are hesitant to watch this film because the
trailer perceives it as a horror film with a lot of "jumpy" scenes,
ignore that. I had the same feeling entering it, and there was only one
towards the very end, but it was worth the shock. You will miss so much
detail trying to cover your eyes for a few minutes sporadically
throughout that it's not worth it. Take the risk of jumping out of your
seat for once, because it was the best scare I could ask for.

9/10. Not Martin's best work, but come on, could you make a better
movie than him?
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese returns to film making after winning the academy award
for The Departed with his fav star Leonardo DiCaprio.. This time he
move to a completely different script which keeps the audience humored
and thrilled from the first scene till the last! The movie( which i saw
at the Berlin film festival!) blew away the minds of many people, the
plot being so strong and thrilling which kept the audiences guessing! 

When it comes to acting Leonardo lets no stone unturned! The supremely
talented actor has once again showed that why Martin casts him in his
every movie as he is simply superb! He not only fits into the role
smoothly but delivers a terrific performance every time! Sir Kingsley
being the head psychiatrist of the asylum has also done a marvelous
job!

The film is full of flashbacks and haunting dream sequences that range
in location from the island itself to the concentration camp at Dachau.
The audience is constantly trapped in a world where one questions what
is reality and what is dream. Don't miss this one!
