
I Love You, Man is a delightful film not just for its brand of humour
which worked almost all the time, nor because it stars the bunch of
contemporary jokers who have taken Hollywood by storm, but because it
had a meaningful story to tell, and has translated that key insight of
friendships and relationships for the big screen effortlessly, wrapping
up some deep, intrinsic behavioural observation deceptively behind a
curtain of laughter.

Like the 40 Year Old Virgin in its quest for a woman to get laid with
to pop his cherry, this film works on the reverse in its protagonist's
quest for a male friend, since Peter Klaven (Paul Rudd) has no problems
with female friendship as he's the quintessential ladies man, only that
he's about to marry his fiancé Zooey (Rashida Jones). Since the bride
has a maid of honour, it's up to Peter to find a balance in a best man,
only that he hasn't really had a man friend for the longest time, and
so begins a crazy montage of hooking up with casual friends in the hope
of striking gold.

It might seem like a hypothetical situation, but as the film
progressed, it brings to mind how many of us have friends (male or
female) that we sometimes take for granted in knowing that they'll
always be there for us. Only a reality check brings up the fact that
everyone has their own personal lives to lead, and it wouldn't be nice
to impose (mid-life crisis singles, hands up here), especially not with
an ulterior motive. Some of us too when having a girlfriend, tend to
allow male friends to fall on the wayside as we skirt chase, and
depending on whether you get someone who provides that much leeway as
Zooey, you can kiss goodbye to those male-bonding sessions.

Then there's the difference between the premise of a girl's night out,
and a guy's, and the dynamics of what happens within the groups. It can
be somewhat stereotypical here in the film, but you get the drift as
the film lays it all out on the table, with the girls talking about the
boy-stuff behind their backs, and the worst bit being that cause for
comparison, and the guys, well, talk about what else, sex! There are
some lines clearly drawn here in what can, or cannot be discussed, and
how much of that you can bring to the table, and how much you can take
away from. A secret's a secret, and should stay that way with clear
segregation in order to prevent upsetting anyone. Talk about
compromises and "truth".

If what you're saying is that it reeks of hypocrisy, then yes,
sometimes it does, and the married couple played by Jaime Pressly and
Jon Favreau (yes, he who directed Iron Man) epitomizes the crankiness
of a marriage with its idiosyncrasies, and the hypocrisies that come
with presenting a united front, and worse of all, trading favours in
both directions. They have some of the best lines and insane moments in
the film, and poor Jon has got to suffer two verbal abuses (for you to
watch and find out).

Many of us who have remembered Jason Segel's comical turn in Forgetting
Sarah Marshall, and here he cuts his Sydney Fife both ways, one an
alpha male type who seems way cool with his frat boy sensibilities,
which is actually a facade for a lonely life he leads in his garage
where he can be the man he actually is. As the friendship between Peter
and Sydney grow from their numerous hanging out sessions, from short
drinking sessions to weekend rendezvous just to jam to their favourite
tunes, so too does the strain in Peter and Zooey's relationship,
because as the saying goes, two's a company, and three's a crowd. This
aspect serves as an adversary in the film, though it doesn't come
unexpected when it suddenly dawns upon Peter that he can't have two
birds in one hand. Being the novice in this aspect of a man-friend
relationship here, there are many times Peter trips up, and the
experienced us would know that it's perfect danger territory to find
yourself in.

And who would have thought friendship and relationships could be such a
chore, especially when expectations start flying around being that
spanner ready to be thrown in the works. As a comedy, this film hit
plenty of right spots in eliciting laughter from the audience, with
funny lines that do work, and carefully crafted characters in Peter
(with his nonsensical one- liner conversation endings, and nicknames),
and Sydney being quite multi-dimensional. And what's a film like this
about man-friends without that dose of fanboy-dom in it, with the
Incredible Hulk Lou Ferrigno playing himself in a very short supporting
role, and many other film references thrown in for good measure too?

I Love You, Man is an excellent story on friendship, and what makes
friendship tick. For that and its healthy dose of comedy, and a great
spin on the tired romantic-comedy genre, it goes without a surprise
into my list of contenders for top films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Man, I love Paul Rudd. And I'm almost positive that right after you
watch his latest feature, you will too.

Paul Rudd (Clueless, The Shape of Things, Anchorman, "Friends",
40-Year-Old Virgin, Knocked Up, Forgetting Sarah Marshall, and Role
Models) plays Peter Klaven, a semi-successful real estate agent who
proposes to his beautiful girlfriend of eight months, Zooey, played by
the talented heartmelter Rashida Jones (Karen from "The Office").

Their relationship seems almost picture perfect, their classic
love-at-first-sight story, their comfortable HBO TV Nights, and best of
all, her girl friends adore him. The only problem is, Peter's guy
friends don't care much for Zooey, because well, he doesn't have any.
In fact, he's never really had any. Which begs the question: Who the
hell will be Peter Klaven's Best Man at his wedding?? 

A couple of uncomfortable and unpredictable man dates later, enter
Sidney (Jason Segel), who shows up at an open house hosted by Peter
Klaven. Only he's not there to check out the multi-million dollar
estate owned by "The Incredible Hulk" Lou Ferrigno. Sidney's there to
scope out the recent divorcées who commonly show up at open houses, and
to grab some free sandwiches while he's at it.

With Sidney's uncanny understanding of male behavior, his barbaric
display of testosterone, his similar taste in Rock & Roll, and his
honest and vulgar approach to male bonding (hence the R-Rating), is
this really the Best Man Pete's been looking for? Or the Worst Man that
could ever happen to not only Pete's pending marriage with Zooey, but
also his career, and ultimately his life?? 

As implied by the sentimental title, this film was building up to be
the definitive Bromantic Comedy, and in my opinion, they pulled it off.
I Love You, Man is Paul Rudd at his finest. He charmed his way into a
clueless Alicia Silverstone, he started a timeless string of homophobic
questioning with Seth Rogen, and he helped a self-loathing Jason Segel
forget Sarah Marshall with a spaced out surf lesson.

Now Paul's back to find a best man, and the chemistry he has with the
best man to-be is pure comedy. Thankfully we get a front row seat to
all his awkwardness, his flamboyance, his unabashed silliness, and his
hopelessness, and all of it is completely hysterical, and completely
endearing. (You know how I know you're gay? You think Paul Rudd is
endearing.) 

Alongside Paul is a unique ensemble of characters, including Andy
Samberg playing Pete's gay brother, JK Simmons playing the everyman
father (not unlike his role as Juno's dear old dad), and a handful of
other awesome cameos that create some great moments. Director John
Hamburg does a great job of creating an open environment to let them
play off of each other, uninhibited and sometimes ridiculous.

I Love You, Man is funny, honest, over-the-top yet true-to-life, and
yes, I'll say it again, completely endearing.
<|_=00=_|>
Though you won't find the name Judd Apatow on this film at all, he
certainly has a hand in it, as his influence is all over the film.
However, unlike most of the movies that can certainly be grouped with
this one, 'I Love You, Man' is a movie almost anyone can enjoy, even
women and kids. It's the lightest, warmest, and the best for buddies of
either sex to see. It's a delightful comedy that will make you laugh
throughout and brighten your day.

Whether it be the great buddy chemistry between the leads, or the
simply hysterical supporting cast, I found myself loving this movie.
Like director John Hamburg's previous effort, 'Along Came Polly', the
movie is incredibly likable because it relies on the awkward humor that
Paul Rudd does pretty much perfectly, playing off the happy-go-lucky
humor of Jason Segel.

Rudd is likable and reliable as usual in a role showcasing the best of
his abilities (I really can't say how happy I am that he's finally
getting leading roles), and unlike in 'Role Models', he's the
undisputed lead here. Segel is a character in Rudd's story, his life,
and his journey to find a friend, and essentially, become a complete
person before his life changes for the better. Segel is at his best in
a role as what appears to be the perfect friend (I would hang out with
this guy for days). Rashida Jones is adorable and likable as Rudd's
fiancé, and it's a role that most actresses would've over done (Jaime
Pressly's performance should remind people of how it could've been over
done), and Jones plays it with an ease that makes her likable.

The supporting cast is what makes the movie great. It's the foundation
of characters played by Thomas Lennon, Joe Lo Truglio, Jon Favreau,
Jaime Pressly, and Andy Samberg that completes the movie and makes it
worth watching (because, let's face it, the movie wouldn't be that
great if Rudd and Segel just sat around bro-ing out for 2 hours).
Lennon and Truglio are hilarious as candidates for Peter's best man
position, and Lennon will bring down the house as Doug, with his
classic monologue about how he feels when his advances towards Peter
are rejected. Truglio is great in yet another small cameo that stacks
up with his previous appearances in 'Pineapple Express' and 'Superbad',
as well as the icing on the cake that was 'Role Models' (he's an
example of the whole "everyone will like this movie" thing. Jon Favreau
is hysterical in his part as a cynical ass that makes you go, "this guy
directed 'Iron Man'?".

I think the reason most people will like this one is because it'll put
a smile on most people's faces. It's a generally happy movie that is a
good movie to see in a group to start off a night, and is even a decent
date movie. It's got jokes that even kids can like (though most of the
film is obviously not appropriate for them...what I'm saying is if they
HAVE to see one of these movies, this is the one for them). I really
enjoyed this movie, it left a good taste in my mouth, and my friends
loved it too.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw a screening of this movie. It was great. Paul Rudd & Jason
Segel are an amazing match - we've seen that in "Forgetting Sarah
Marshall" - their chemistry is natural...and it just works. I laughed A
lot during this movie. It's been a while since I've run across a comedy
that is smarter than most in terms of humor. 

The other supporting characters are quirky, delicious... Jamie Pressley
plays to perfection. I recommend this movie to everyone for a great
laugh...it's a very feel-good movie. Oh, and Rashida Jones was cute,
lovable and had a great character to play. I haven't seen her in too
many movies in the past, so it was refreshing to see a different
leading lady for a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about this movie, I became a little irritated. The
premise seemed to me like a "romantic comedy for gays" except with a
few lines to make it a "bromance." It makes sense, as most guys in the
target age group (high schoolers and college aged) are quite
uncomfortable discussing sexual orientation in any context (Don't
believe me? Try raising the topic with your best buddies). It seemed
like it was wimping out instead of taking a chance and really making a
movie that could make said guys comfortable about this sort of thing.

This may be the film's intention, but it hides it well. The romance
between Peter (Paul Rudd) and Zooey (Rashida Jones) is well-integrated
and quite important to the story. If anything, it represents a major
stepping stone.

I approached this film with much trepidation; I don't especially like
Judd Apatow movies. Some of the stuff is funny, but a lot of it is too
understated, like Clark Duke in "Sex Drive" or "Kick Ass" (watch the
trailers of either one of those movies and when the dorky kid with
glasses talks, you'll see what I mean). Worse, Jason Segel wrote and
starred in "Forgetting Sarah Marshall," a movie of that ilk that I
didn't like at all. Fortunately, none of those characteristics made
into this movie. The jokes flow naturally and the film has energy and
chemistry between the actors. This result is 90+ minutes of absolute
hilarity.

Peter (Paul Rudd) has always been a ladies man. Women love him, and he
finds them very easy to talk to. That's one of the reasons why Zooey
(Rashida Jones) falls head over heels for him, and when he proposes,
she accepts. But once wedding plans get underway, he realizes that he
has no best guy friends to make up his share of the wedding party. So
with his friends encouragement, he sets out to find a new best guy
friend. After a few disastrous "man dates," he runs into Sydney (Jason
Segel), a fun loving guy with a lot of advice on how to break loose and
have fun.

The best thing about this movie is that everything unfolds naturally.
True, it follows the familiar beats of the genre, but nothing that
happens is contrived. The characters actions are genuine and make sense
from what we know about them, and that makes it more honest (not to
mention effective.

The leads are great. Paul Rudd tones down the "funny smartass"
personality that made him famous and instead acts like a likable guy,
albeit without male/male social skills and a penchant for creating bad
nicknames and catchphrases. Peter is an easy guy to like, and he has
good chemistry with both of his co-stars, Rashida Jones and Jason
Segel. Segel is a revelation. He's one of the most likable characters
I've seen on screen in a long time. He's easy going and earnest, the
type of guy anyone would want as a best friend. However, some of his
philosophies on life and social skills come off as scripted, and try as
he might, Segel isn't able to make them sound otherwise. Rashida Jones
is also very good (looking and sounding like Jessica Alba, only more
relaxed). When Peter tells her about Sydney, she's excited for him. If
us guys could all have such wives, we'd be in heaven. As the gay
brother who is on hand to give advice about "man dating," Andy Samberg
is far less irritating and obnoxious than he was in the utterly awful
"Hot Rod," which is near the top of my list of one of the worst movies
ever made.

John Hamburg is making a comedy, and like the best ones, he lets
everything flow naturally. The humor isn't kept on mute, or drained of
energy, or kept low-key. It's totally natural, and that's what makes
this such a funny, and dare I say it, touching, comedy. I was actually
discussing this film with my best guy friend, and the movie reminded us
quite strongly of the sort of things we would do when we were in
college together. Movies that have establish that kind of a connection
with a viewer don't come along very often.
<|_=00=_|>
The makers of the film tried to follow in the style of director Judd
Apatow, you know add in some raunchiness, but not too much of it, but
at the same time make it heartwarming and relatable. Like The 40-Year
Old Virgin(2005), and Knocked Up(2007) where.

The story starts with Peter(Paul Rudd) who purposes to his longtime
girlfriend Zooey(Rashida Jones), and she says yes. And should be smooth
sailing from there right, well not so much. Peter quickly discovers
that he has no best man for his wedding, the painful fact is that Peter
has never really had a male friend, most of his best friends are
females. So Peter goes out on a search by going on a couple of man
dates, in hopes to find the perfect B.F.F.. But comes close to giving
up, until he meets Sydney(Jason Segel), a wild fun loving guy. Peter
and Sydney soon become the best of friends, has Sydney shows Peter on
how to be wild and crazy. But will it put a strain on his relationship
with Zooey? 

One funny comedy, that hits it's mark perfectly. And a great bunch of
characters, that don't over do it either. Paul Rudd is great, always,
he had better chemistry with Rashida Jones and Jason Segel, then he had
with Elizabeth Banks and Seann William Scott. Rashida Jones is also
great in her role, although she doesn't quite get the big laughs, she
endearing and believable in her role. Jason Segel was perfectly cast
also, he managed to get some good laughs. And rest of the supporting
cast are memorable. Including Lou Ferrigno as himself.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though Judd Apatow had nothing to do with this film (as far as I
know), it will inevitably be compared to both "Forgetting Sarah
Marshall" and "The 40 Year Old Virgin". It's not very hard to see why,
since both male leads are frequently in lead or supporting roles in
Apatow-directed or -produced films. Since those two films most
especially exceeded many people's expectations, Jason Segel and Paul
Rudd both probably had a lot of pressure for this film to be funny.
Fortunately, this film succeeded in being as funny and as refreshingly
honest as the aforementioned comedies.

"I Love You, Man" is a comedy that doesn't quite fit into the "romantic
comedy" or "feel good comedy" categories. It has elements of both, and
fortunately, all the right elements.

The premise of the movie is a bit unconventional. Paul Rudd plays Peter
Klaven, a moderately successful and ambitious real estate broker who
just proposed to his beautiful and articulate girlfriend, played
brilliantly by Rashida Jones. He seems to have everything going for
him, until he realizes he doesn't have a best guy friend. All his life,
he has had woman friends, which isn't a bad thing. However, he feels a
void, especially since he doesn't have a best man to choose. He enlists
the help of his mother (SNL alum Jane Curtin) and brother (current SNL
player Andy Samberg) to find a guy friend, creating a hilarious montage
of unsuccessful "man dates". After those attempts don't go well, he
spontaneously meets a broker named Sydney Fife (Jason Segel). Through
Peter's awkwardness with having a best male friend, they hit it off.
However, Peter's cluelessness with what information to share with a
male friend as opposed to a female friend creates tension between new
friend Sydney, his fiancé, and her friends.

The premise is one of the best things about this film. It's safe to say
that everyone has had moments where everything is going right except
for one minor thing, except it doesn't seem too minor to you the more
you think about it. One of the most poignant scenes is when Rudd is
driving around L.A., and he sees various types of male bonding. The
left-out look on Rudd's face was both heartfelt and understandable. Of
course, when he asks his family for help, it's not made clear why he
didn't ask his brother to be his best man. The brothers appear to get
along well, although once Rudd's character goes on a quest to find a
guy friend, Samberg's character appears to get pushed into the
background until the very end. Samberg was very funny in this movie,
but his character created this tiny plot hole in the film.

That being said, Jason Segel's character was absolutely brilliant, and
the opposite of whom he played in both "Freaks and Geeks" and
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall". He's confident in this movie, and his
humor comes from street smarts more than awkwardness and self-doubt.
That's not to say his previous performances weren't good. Rather, Segel
shows in this movie that he's good at playing a different kind of
ambitious person. His lines are often times laugh-out-loud funny, and
he plays very well off of Paul Rudd's slightly unsure-of-himself
character.

Of course, in similar buddy movies, there's always the subplot when a
person is either married or in a committed relationship, that the main
guy meets an outgoing other guy, they become friends, and they spend so
much time together that the wife/steady-girlfriend immediately becomes
jealous. This subplot is especially prevalent in movies where Jennifer
Aniston is that girl. Here, Rashida Jones plays a far more realistic
counterpart to Paul Rudd. She's not immediately jealous of Segel, but
there is some friction later in the movie. The most refreshing part is
that Jones' character is far more reasonable than other similar
characters. Her reactions are familiar, yet she still maintains a calm
dignity throughout the movie that's rare, especially in romantic
comedies. Jones, a regular on "The Office", shows brilliance in this
role. As long as she stays the hell away from chick flicks along the
lines of "She's Just Not That Into You", she'll be a welcome face in
film, and not just in Judd Apatow-influenced movies.

I highly recommend this picture. It's funny in some of the same ways
the aforementioned Judd Apatow films are, but there's another level of
refreshing honesty, brilliant writing, laugh out loud humor, and a
slightly-unusual plot line that sets it apart from those films. It
hasn't been released to theaters yet, but when it does, I hope it's a
hit. If the writing team here was worried movie goers would think the
film to be "Forgetting Sarah Marshall 2", hopefully they won't have
anything to worry about.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know that Hollywood seems to have the originality of a spastic
Xerox machine;in other words,find a successful formula and there'll be
about eighteen different takes or copies of it lying in wait. Never
does the dearth of originality seem to raise its big old ugly head than
in relationship movies,sometimes called romantic comedies or "rom
coms". Even when different angles seem to be explored,they still come
to the same,tired wrap-up that involve the cute major players,boy and
girl,to find love in each others' arms despite the obstacles. Every
once in a while,I'm relieved to say,you do run across a film that
decides to mine the margins of these love stories to make a movie.

I submit to you I Love You Man,made with the sensibility--and at least
two members of the stable of actors--of a Judd Apatow/Greg Mottola
film,and VERY appreciated.

Peter Klaven(Paul Rudd,the nicest,most likable mensch in movies and TV
today,with a punum you could just....)is a reasonably successful Real
Estate agent in Southern California whose engagement to Zoe(Rashida
Jones,the girlfriend from Heaven)couldn't be going better. They're very
much in love and she gets his silly,sometimes lame persona and he
appreciates her patience and physical receptiveness. Everything's going
well for their impending connubial bliss,save one thing:Peter has no
guy friends. None. While Ol' Pete has a great touch with the ladies,he
has almost no bro bonding to fall back on.

This previous situation,once not considered a problem if even
considered at all now weighs upon our hero,and he gets help(both
solicited and not)from family--Mom(Jane Curtin)and bro(Andy
Samberg)--and from fiancé herself. The phrase 'hilarity ensues' is
overused but,in these instances,they apply.

Then walks into an open house Sidney Fife(Jason Segel,physically the
same from Forgetting Sarah Marshall,but character-wise a near
one-eighty),an investment broker whose own,self-actualized sense of zen
and bro-supreme self-sufficiency hits it off perfectly with
Peter,balancing the groom-to-be's pleasant but feminine recessive
qualities.

Featuring a supporting cast that doesn't try to stand out but still
does: Curtin,Samber,J.K.Simmons(as Peter's dad),Tom Lennon(as a
potential guy friend "suitor"),Sarah Burns(as one of Zoe's more
pathetic friends),Jaime Pressly(as Zoe's perpetually angry married
friend),Jon Favreau(as Pressly's dickish husband)and Lou
Ferrigno(as...well,Lou Ferrigno),this film has a delightful time
bringing to screen a "love" story angle that is as fresh,real and
relatively ignored in most movies starring(pick any two of the
following):Matthew McConaughey,Kate Hudson,Sandra Bullock,Meg Ryan,Hugh
Grant,Ryan Reynolds,Renee Zellweger,Richard Gere or Reese Witherspoon.
Co-writer John Hamburg directs this film,and he seems to be perfectly
fine with letting this film amble along to its conclusion,scattering
more than its share of laughs and pratfalls along the way. If this
isn't love I felt for this fine film,it certainly with a fine
affinity,nay a mild infatuation,I felt here...man(you HAD to know THAT
was coming).
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Klaven (Paul Rudd) hasn't a friend in the world - or so he
realizes when he becomes engaged to Zooey (Rashida Jones) and finds he
can't come up with a single male buddy to be in his wedding party. The
solution? Go out and make some platonic guy friends, even if it means
having to rely on your mommy (Jane Curtin) and your gay younger brother
(Andy Samberg) to help you do it. Eventually, after a number of
faltering attempts, Kevin alights on Sydney (Jason Segel), a mucho
macho bundle of testosterone who, like a latter-day Henry Higgins to
Kevin's Eliza Doolittle, instructs the awkward lad on the fine art of
"being a man." But as with any good teacher/pupil relationship, each
side winds up learning a little something from the other before it's
all over.

A straight man far more comfortable in the company of women than of
men, Kevin emerges as the ultimate metrosexual figure: fastidious in
demeanor, sensitive to the needs of others, and courteous to a fault
(he even admits to liking "The Devil Wears Prada" in a moment of
unguarded weakness). He doesn't really know how to roughhouse it with
the boys, and any efforts he makes in that direction inevitably lead to
failure. Until our man Sydney steps into the breach to give him a few
badly needed pointers, that is.

Smoothly directed by John Hamburg, "I Love You, Man" is a relaxed,
breezy and sharply written male-bonding comedy that - miracle of
miracles - doesn't play down to its audience (it may be crude at times,
but it's rarely childish). The Hamburg/Larry Levin screenplay does a
clever job poking fun at the double entendres inherent in any
modern-day bromance, though one wishes certain characters - Kevin's
family members, in particular - had been allotted a little more in the
way of screen time. That being said, the performances are all
first-rate, with Rudd and Segel playing to their respective strengths -
Rudd's of the tongue-tied, self-effacing Mr. Nice Guy who needs lessons
in "manning up," and Segel's of the refreshingly blunt but socially
indelicate Man/Child who clearly needs to do some growing up.

There's additional excellent work from J.K. Simmons, Jamie Pressly,
Sarah Burns and Rob Huebel, among others.

It's also a bit of a casting coup to get both Jane Curtin from the
first generation of SNL players and Andy Samberg from the current one
together in the same film. Finally, some unlikely cameo appearances by
Lou Ferrigno and the band Rush, all appearing as themselves, add to the
spirit of fun that permeates the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Funny movies have to be funny. That's the only rule about funny movies.
They don't have to live up to any expectations, they can be about the
same thing that movies always are. It really doesn't matter. As long as
they are funny.

I Love You, Man is a funny movie. In case the plot is of any interest
to you, it's about this guy (Paul Rudd) who is getting married to this
woman (Rashida Jones), but he realizes that he doesn't really have any
male friends to fill out his side of the wedding party. So he starts on
a quest with the aid of his brother (Andy Samberg) to find a best man.
When he finally thinks he finds one (Jason Segel), hilarity ensues.

On the spectrum of comedies, this is a bro movie. One made basically
for guys, a little raunchy. But honestly, it's not too R-rated. It
cusses a bit, discusses sex a lot, things like that. But not nearly as
R-rated as say... Role Models, which I feel is sort of along the same
lines. Comparable at least. They are both very funny movies, and both
have Paul Rudd.

But this is about I Love You, Man. The highlight of the movie, for me,
is Thomas Lennon as Doug. I have been a fan of his for a long time, at
least since Reno 911 came out. Which is a brilliant show. Paul Rudd is
very, very cute, but not always convincing, the same with Rashida Jones
as his fiancée. It's a movie that Ben Stiller would have made if he
were younger. Jason Segel does what Jason Segel does. He plays his role
very capably as Sydney, the crazed friend.

And that is I Love You, Man. It's a rather simple, but funny movie.
