
This film is so much better than any of those crappy gross-out teen
movies they throw at us every summer. When did the characters in
American Pie actually learn something worthwhile and maybe even grow up
a little? 

Nick Vegara is the hottest unknown I've seen in a long time. Hats off
to these guys for discovering him. I can't wait to see where he goes.
Incredibly sweet performances are also given by Josh Davis and Rob
Bradford as the two mismatched brothers.

The guys who made this movie are smart, funny and clearly CARE about
telling not just a smart, funny story, but also one that MEANS
something and GOES somewhere. Love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Though independent and "low budget", what others have deemed "staged"
and "faked" (perfect "in frame" shots), seems to be a disguised
complement on the quality of camera work for an "amateur" production!

The characters are realistic representations of people we all knew
(maybe even were) throughout high school.

The cast seemed well selected (from looks/costuming/etc) for their
"parts". The main characters, are not the "beautiful", "popular",
"jocks"..... they are the other ones, the ones that weren't "popular"
per se', but weren't outcasts.

Remember that beautiful girl that everybody wanted? How about the "nice
girl" who fell in love with her best friend? Or (my favorite) the "dead
beat" older brother who still is scarred from his first time having
sex.

Yes, there are a few clichés but really.....they're clichés for a
reason. BECAUSE THEY'RE REAL!!!!

All the characters I could put names to my former schoolmates.

This was all-in-all a fun, nostalgic romp through what was an otherwise
traumatizing time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm 39, happily married, three kids, all between 5-10 years old. I
watched the sneak preview on a Saturday night sitting in my pj's and
laughed out loud probably twenty times. To the point my wife actually
watched a little. She watched up to the point where Nickie said he
wanted to dunk the girl's head in the toilet, she left at that point.

I think you have to step back and watch the whole thing without
thinking about Superbad or the other high school comedy movies that
come out because this is a different thing, this is an old school film
not a new school movie. Something really special here, and I know
because I keep saying "alright, I gotta go inside and get ****ed up
real quick, then I'll drive you wherever you want..." It's a smart-alec
comedy, which I like.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I saw this movie the other week because a friend told me it was
online for free as some kind of a promo. I wasn't expecting much - it
looked like another standard teen sex romp movie on the outside - but I
found that there was a lot more to "The Graduates" than other movies in
its genre.

Let's face it, a lot of comedies made today suck. I mean: "Scream 4"!?
"Disaster Movie"? Come on! What happened to the smart, clever movies
that people like Steve Martin USED to make, like "The Jerk?" Now all
you have to do is say or do something outlandish or weird in order to
get a movie made (cough - Will Ferrell).

Judd Apatow's crew are on the right track. They've put the emphasis
back on character and relationships, but the people that did "The
Graduates" seem to be pushing for more - something with quality acting
and grounded relationships - things that people can relate to and
connect to and FEEL for. I don't remember the last time I saw a teen
sex comedy or coming of age comedy where I really gave a hoot whether
the characters/actors lived or died - and that's just what happened for
me with "The Graduates." I liked "The Graduates." I really did. I liked
it even MORE when I found out that it was made for under $100,000.00.
Now that's impressive. Think of how much money is wasted on such
terrible movies, then see this movie - wow.

I saw all these bizarre reviews/comments on their page which really
didn't make sense - a rating of 4.4? Weird, vague comments by other
users who didn't seem to be talking about the same movie I saw and
openly admitting that they only watched 30 mins of a 90 min film? I
hope that this blemish doesn't hurt the success of this otherwise
well-received film.

The plot is pretty typical, but it's what they DO with it that matters.
The cinematography and direction is pretty straight forward, which
makes sense for a film like this on this scale - you can only do so
much with a small budget and you only SHOULD do so much with a
character-driven piece. The acting? From these unknowns? Really kind of
impressive - I saw that Nick Vergara, who plays Mattie in the film, got
commended by my favorite website: FilmschoolRejects.com. I agree with
their review. There really are no weak links in this film in terms of
the talent.

I found more info at www.TheGraduatesMovie.com about the film and got a
free soundtrack and I will see it again when/if it plays near me.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not just a run of the mill coming of age comedy, but one
with heart, insight, and new adventures. I thoroughly enjoyed it. the
scenes were authentic and i'm still quoting several memorable lines. As
a newbie to the world of indie films, i was really impressed to see how
much could be accomplished with very limited resources. It makes me
want to see more from this group of very dedicated and talented film
makers and actors. i definitely recommend seeing this film. Whether you
are waiting to experience senior week for yourself or reliving the
one(s) that you remember, this movie will leave you smiling and waiting
anxiously for summer 2009!
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like this movie didn't know exactly what it wanted to be. Also,
it seemed to bend the truth a little too much in its trailer. Almost
posing as a throw back to 80s sex comedies, but then ending up being
another indie movie about finding yourself. I felt like it tried too
hard to develop some characters that didn't need to be developed, and
thus all of the characters ended up without real depth. I think if the
movie just focused on the four main characters then it would've been
much better.

Some forced moments were 1) When the hot girl goes to the bar with her
alcoholic boyfriend and sees an ugly old drunk woman in the bar. As if
she were looking into the future. This was hit over our head and not
needed. Because the movie never sets up this character as someone to
care about.

2) The divorce of the main characters parents. He finds out they are
getting a divorce and it really messes him up....for one scene. Then it
is completely forgotten about and never brought up again. I'm not
really sure why it was brought up in the first place.

Those are the two that jumped off the screen for me, but there were
others in the movie. Like the creepy friend of the older brother. What
was the point of him? He came in and out of the movie and never added
anything. or the guy that made Josh realize there is more to life than
partying at beach week. Only to end up being miserable as well later in
the film for a scene between him and another character that is mostly
irrelevant. How come those two get a moment together? Is the message
that you are going to be miserable no matter what you decide to do with
your life?

Having said that (Curb Your Enthusiasm joke anyone?), this movie was
enjoyable to watch. Mainly because I loved some of the performances.
Josh Adam Davis as the older brother was perfect. He added a little
Will Ferrell to the character that really made it memorable. (Watch him
explain the "brushing back the hair" phenomenon with Will Ferrell in
mind and you'll know what I am talking about.) Blake Merriman was
hilarious in the movie. His acting was so understated which made his
character more believable. I'd love to see Nick Vergara in something
else to find out if he was actually acting or just playing himself in
this movie. I really enjoyed him in the scene where he teaches Nickie a
lesson about acting stupid and starting fights. I would also like to
see Rob Bradford in another role as his performance was at times really
grounded and believable and other times forced. Which leads me to
believe that the director may have been forcing his vision on Bradford
instead of letting the actor create a believable character throughout
the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if those giving this movie such harsh reviews really paid
attention to what (I thought) the movie was aiming for, or kept in mind
that it's a low-budget, grassroots indie. It seems to me like it's
trying to appeal equally to teens and adults: teens because it depicts
something pretty true to their current experience and adults because it
definitely tells the story through the perspective of an adult. By that
I mean it's a little satirical and more realistic than a lot of teen
comedies aimed just at teens.

I also didn't get the impression it was trying overtly to be a comedy.
It was too realistic for that--yes, some scenes were funny or were
meant to be funny, but only in the context that there is a lot of humor
in the life of a 18-year-old (whether or not the kid's aware of it). It
wasn't just going for cheap laughs.

Is this a perfect movie? No. Some areas could be improved: the trailer
(doesn't create a lot of interest and gives away too much),
one-dimensional female characters, some holes in the storytelling, for
example. Is it clearly an indie? Oh, yes. But it does show a lot of
promise on the part of the cast (especially the actors playing Josh,
Mattie, Andy, and Megs) and the director. It's smarter and more
thoughtful and mature than most teen movies (and thank god there's not
some kind of freaking moral at the end or any form of
makeover/lifechanging montage sequence). Knowing now that the budget
was so small--I'm quite impressed. I'd like to see what they'd all do
with a more developed screenplay and a larger budget. And the use of
music was excellent; it really added to the storytelling.

Now I'm climbing on a soapbox, but for this genre I'd rather watch an
imperfect but entertaining movie that's realistic and a little more
grassroots than something overproduced, unrealistic, clichéd, and
bloated.
<|_=00=_|>
i might be a little biased living in ocean city and basically knowing
everyone in that movie but it was great! it had good composure,all the
elements, i would so see it again, loved it! It was cool seeing people
in a movie and being able to see them at a party the next day! but it's
not even that the actual movie was great me and my friends watched it
and we all loved it! the entire movie we would just name exactly were
and would be like oh hey we were there the other day etc. it was a good
movie and really fun to watch as an local. i loved it! all the actors
we're very good as well! this movie is definitely not what i would have
expected of a low-budget film made in ocean city Maryland! it greatly
exceeded my expectations though!
<|_=00=_|>
The Graduates shows a bright future in the magnificent talent of
writer/director Ryan Gielen. A brilliant, well written coming of age
film takes you on a roller-coaster of emotions, that comes to a halt
with a great message that will certainly make you think! Nick Vergaga
offers a standout performance as the best bud, Mattie, but I'm not
saying that the entire cast didn't offer a spectacular performance.
That would be farthest from the truth. On many occasions, this reminded
me a little bit about my own journey, enlightening me through their
deep conversations, or experiences. You will not be disappointed with
this movie! It's a must-see!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The Graduates shows a bright future in the magnificent talent of
writer/director Ryan Gielen. A brilliant, well written coming of age
film takes you on a roller-coaster of emotions, that comes to a halt
with a great message that will certainly make you think! Nick Vergaga
offers a standout performance as the best bud, Mattie, but I'm not
saying that the entire cast didn't offer a spectacular performance.
That would be farthest from the truth. On many occasions, this reminded
me a little bit about my own journey, enlightening me through their
deep conversations, or experiences. You will not be disappointed with
this movie! It's a must-see!!!!
