
Based on true events amid the wreckage and chaos dealt by Hurricane
Katrina; one basketball coach in Marrero, Louisiana just will not give
up. Coach Al Collins(Forest Whitaker), gathers other players from
hard-hit schools and builds a team actually worthy enough to go to the
state playoffs. A very honest look at what can be done with the right
people having the desire and fortitude to pick up and start over again.
Just getting the players, that under normal circumstances would be
rivals, to mesh together into a solid playing unit was no easy task.
Along with stars like Isaiah Washington, Courtney B. Vance, Bonnie
Hunt, Michael Gaston and Taraji P Henson is rapper Lil' Wayne and
singer Bow Wow. Many heroes have surfaced from the bowels of Katrina's
wrath...some just happened to belong on a basketball court. HURRICANE
SEASON is well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this would be a cheap movie given that it Lil Wayne and Bow
Wow in the movie but boy was I surprised. Hurricane Season is a great
story of triumph in the face of tremendous adversity. It puts you in
New Orleans before and after Hurricane Katrina. It showed how people's
lives were turned upside down. The life and history of a town swept
away in just a few moments. In one of the darker times of our nation's
history it illustrates what makes the human spirit so powerful. And how
a group of misfits can become brothers and form a collective bond that
can accomplish anything. As someone who has watched every sports movie
known to man, I dare say this movie is a better basketball movie then
Coach Carter. And is easily right up there in inspiration with Rudy. I
love how the movie showed such a powerful resiliency from such young
men. Move over Remember The Titans, Hurricane Season is ready to take
you by storm.
<|_=00=_|>
Hurricane Season was like a exciting thrill ride just waiting to get
on. I feel this way because it showed me how all the struggles that New
Orleans citizens went through but still made the best of it. This movie
had also showed me how your team is your family,and how teamwork is
important no matter what. I also noticed some characters like Lil'
Wanye,Bow Wow,and China Anne McClain. I think they played their parts
well. I couldn't picture anyone better for the parts.

This movie also fits for kids my age and up, and parents as well.
That's why I think this movie was interesting.

But my favorite character was Brian Randof played by Robbie Jones. I
liked him because he reminds me of me because before no one wanted me
on their team or gave me the ball. The reason why was I never passed
the ball until I opened my eyes and saw that when I needed help I had
four other players just like what happened to Brian.

Another actor I liked was Shad Moss, but you also know him as Bow Wow.
I liked him because he showed people that size doesn't matter. Like you
could be big and be the worst or you can be small and be the best on
the court.

That's what the movie showed me.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great movie, but being born and raised in Marrero,La. (still
living here), and also attending John Ehret High School, the "Facts" in
this movie is very misleading. It is true with the players from 5
different schools coming together to win it all. But, the reason why
they all got together at John Ehret is because it was one of the few
schools opened at the time. For instance, in the scene where the coach
goes to the gym after Katrina, and it is destroyed and full of water,
that is no where near the truth. John Ehret had ZERO damage from the
storm, in fact the entire west bank had some wind damage to houses, but
NONE of the area flooded at all. Also, this movie was filmed at a
vacant school in Chalmette, La. and though the makers made an attempt
to make it look like Ehret, it is no where close. All in All, I enjoyed
the movie, but that is all it is, movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess you have to remember this film says 'based' on true events not
a fully true life story. Although I loved the bit at the end with the
real team and coach. I thought the film was very good and extremely
entertaining. All the cast were spot on and the basketball looked very
realistic. I don't particularly like Forest Whitaker as an actor but in
this film he did a fine job. But it was really all the supporting cast
that carried this film and despite the content and setting there was
very little bad language and no sex scenes so this makes it one of
those rare films that the whole family can watch. I bought this on DVD
only because it was cheap but I am very glad that I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't care for the movie. It seemed like a lifetime movie or
something.

What kept going through my mind is if the coach actually cared about
his team, he wouldn't have had issues with him players going elsewhere.
If you had students that had potential, you're holding them back by
having them play in a broken city where they won't get visibility.

As for the team building exercises and stuff like that, that was good.
I could see focusing on basketball helping build a team and doing so
could be a distraction that relieves some of the pressures of being in
a destroyed city.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderful movie. Too bad that it was not managed properly.
The story needed to be told and will be one of the greats as far as I
am concerned. The acting is superb, it brings the devastation of
Katrina into each American home like no news reports could. It is an
injustice to consider this movie just another "out of the ashes" "feel
good" story. During the time of Katrina I could not help but wonder why
we Americans had allowed the Patriot Act and Homeland Security to start
taking over our lives, when mother nature is a much more formidable
force than any terrorist acts. This movie made me think about how great
people are when they have the resolve to do the extraordinary because
of rather than despite insurmountable odds.
