
How often we get to see Salman minus his childish histrionics? How
often we get to see heroine not just limited for the glamor quotient?
How often we get to see Sohail Khan doing a controlled acting. Not so
often, right? Well apparently this film is the answer. A soft romantic
melodrama without many ups and downs and still at the end leaves a
smile on our face.

Rehna(Kareena) is an orphan who falls in love with Samir Khanna(Salman)
and gets married to him against the wish of his parents. They are
settled in Melbourne, Australia. When life takes a down stride Samir is
left with no option but to send Rehna back home to Delhi and himself to
leave to Singapore for getting a good job. Rehna when comes to know
about his plan, stay back in Melbourne. It is her wait for Samir and
what happens when another guy (Sohail as Akash) who loves Rehna, comes
in between them.

The story- A feel good story which has got its own moments but still
under developed. They could have worked more on this part.

Acting: - Salman as struggling, romantic (usual childish act) and cool
Samir was a treat to watch. He just rocks. Kareena lives as Mrs.
Khanna. She has matured a lot from the bubbly girl image. Sohail is
cute and his acting is controlled. Priety Zinta was there just for a
song. Deepika Padukone, in a surprise cameo, looks stunning. Rest of
the cast is OK.

Music & BGM - Music by Sajid - Wajid is strictly OK. May be the younger
generation will like it. BGM suited the mood of the movie.

Direction and Script - Prem R Soni's debut holds a promise for future.
May be he will be the next Imtiaz Ali. I felt so. Script doesn't offer
many ups and downs or dramatic situation like a usual Bollywood movie.
Still it could have been edited out to avoid some unnecessary elements
like Priety's cameo and all. Characterization could have been reworked
as well. Also he should have taken more caring while showing Dubai as
Australia in some scenes Over all a an OK attempt from a first timer.

Verdict - Will be a multiplex hit.
<|_=00=_|>
what a waste This movie is totally crap No Story,No Direction,No
Acting. I was so amazed and shocked to see A LIST Actors in such a
garbage movie. The movie story is so weak and ordinary.Script is also
horrible.There is no climax. The direction is 3rd class.You don't feel
that it is properly directed. The Screenplay is also too bad.There is
hardly anything good in this movie.Only one song and that's all. Salman
Khan is horrible,he should learn lesson and should be choosy while
selecting a script and Kareena Kapoor too. What is Salman khan doing in
this movie ? He hardly have any role. Sohail Khan is extremely bad
actor,i never like him,He didn't know how to give expressions. Kareena
Kapoor is totally wasted in this movie.She should not do this movie at
all. Overall a very bad and boring movie. If you want to waste 2 hours
of your time then you go and watch it. Otherwise not recommended for
anyone

My rating is 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I rarely give Salman Khan movies 2 star rating, believe me it was
hard!(I never give them more then 1 normally) I watched this movie just
after I finished watching "Blue" so I maybe bit biased as "Blue" was
one of THE worst film of this year.

Anyway back to the review. The story revolves around two people meeting
& falling in love and ultimately getting married. It is only then the
real story begins and over next two hours or so we find out how the
global recession affected the couple as Kareena chooses to work but her
greedy banker! husband just wants to pamper her, but can't afford to,
thus he sets a journey of a thousand miles to go where every man goes
(finds a work), and bring home the all mighty dollar, so that he can
buy his wife a posh home. And it is during this thousand mile journey
where the two hearts are separated and only connected with pay phone
(She can't afford to have a mobile phone) on which she must press 1
four times to call outside Australia without breaking the bank. And
during this period we learn about long distance relationship with few
funny moments and the same old Bollywood ending.

In conclusion I would like to say it has good performance by the cast,
but big let down by the story. Compare to "Wanted" where you could chop
off first half of the movie without any damage to the story or plot
line but you are rewarded in second half, with this one the plot line
just fails to peek up or commends any attention from the audience, it
was like the cast were held at gunpoint to do this movie. But this is
defiantly better than "God Tussi Great Ho" or "Yuvvraaj" but is it
worth watching it in cinema? definitely not you are better off buying a
cheap second hand copy for maybe £2-£3 max pounds.
<|_=00=_|>
My verdict is it's watchable. I truly thought I'll have bad opinion
about this movie considering the severe criticisms I've been reading
about it of late. Surprise! It ain't bad at all, at least for me. It's
actually a nice entertainer, if you don't expect too much.

The pros are it's for family viewing, impressive performances, cute
story & chic costumes(sometimes didn't gel with the situation). While
the cons, I felt, were the too simple treatment(no scene lingers for
long in your mind) and the forgettable songs.

I think the show stealer was Sohail Khan with his naughty pranks that
makes you root for him throughout. Like Raj Kapoor in Mera Naam Joker,
our Khan laughs outside and silently weeps inside....Hey it's not a
tragic movie though. There are quite a number of funny moments which
eclipses the sadness. And no common clichés of a typical Bollywood
movie.

Regarding the other major performances - Salman Khan looked like he
didn't sleep for a week. Kareena Kapoor was pretty & showed understated
acting. Well done. Yash Tonk was another cool guy with a funny bone.
Both Sohail & Yash push the movie out of sheer boredom.

Whatever be the reviews out there, I say go for it if you wish, with a
bag of popcorn and munch with a smile :)
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I've gone through very awful reviews for this film; and it seems
obvious people didn't like it going through the low rating it received
in IMDb. But the film isn't bad. Surprisingly, the film is different
and deals with a couple struggling in Australia, which is pretty a true
to life drama in today's context. The drama carries itself very well
with very few but realistic characters. The drama seems soft cornered
with moments to tickle you. Overall, nowhere the film becomes heavy or
bores you. If there is anything I want to write against this film is
the slow narrative the film opts for and a very cold performance from
Salman Khan. Anyway, just go through this short and a sweet film and
enjoy it for its clarity and a small view of life abroad (which the
film covers only in a coda amount).

Rating: 2 stars out of 4
<|_=00=_|>
At times after watching a movie you just have one thought in the mind
that why on earth this movie was made in the first place. What was the
creative team thinking while working on this project and how did they
come up with an idea of making a complete movie on such a thin, rotten
and completely uninteresting plot. "Main Aurr Mrs Khanna" is the latest
example of such a movie which fails to impress miserably from its first
scene itself and falls flat.

The story is about a husband and wife, who are parting for some time to
gain more financial stability in the future. The wife has to stay alone
for the same and within that time period she establishes new friendly
relationship with people who help her in finding a new job. On his
return the husband starts the same old games of suspicion and then
after certain usual clarifications it all ends on a happy note.

In the new age period of 2009, it's really strange and courageous of
the film-makers to even think of conceiving a film on this subject. May
be the narration was quite different from the final product and that
may also be the reason why there was not a huge promotional campaign
planned for this Salman Khan starrer after the success of his "Wanted".
It seems that the makers already knew that they have a loser in their
kitty.

The film starts on a confusing note, with no proper explanations about
its key characters, their origin or their work. The viewer keeps
guessing how Salman has failed in the business and how he later
suddenly succeeds and returns as a rich man just like that. Till
intermission the movie keeps moving on its own as if it is not even
concerned about the viewer's interest. And on the top, post interval
you are straight away given a song to watch which comes from simply
no-where.

To build up the plot, Sohail Khan unrealistically tries to break the
loving couple of Salman & Kareena with his silly and unconvincing
efforts. He deliberately tries to become the other person in Kareena's
life, even when she never gives him any hint in that direction. And
that was completely incompetent stuff from the writing department after
the intermission. Moreover introduction of a new girl (Deepika
Padukone) in the end, who becomes Sohail's fresh love interest was also
an old surprise trick seen several times before in many similar love
stories.

In the acting department, Kareena tries hard to keep the viewer's
interest alive but doesn't get the support of her writers. Salman looks
a bit tired and too casual in his husband act. Sohail Khan simply
repeats himself as usual. Mahek Chahal, Yash Tonk & Nauheed Cyrusi have
got nothing much to do in their short roles. Dino Morea is just there
for a few minutes. But Bappi Lahiri, who has a full fledged role in the
movie is cool and nice to see with all his gold chains around the neck
as his trademark.

Sajid Wajid's music has got something to enjoy as a soundtrack alone.
However their few melodious songs could have been used in a more
deserving way in some other project. Cinematography is fine capturing
the foreign locales, but writing is the weakest department in the
movie, coming up with bizarre dialogues such as, "I have bought a star
from NASA as a Gift for you." Now what was that supposed to mean?

On the whole, I strongly believe that with such huge stars supporting
his project, director Prem Soni should have thought of another fresh
subject altogether for his first movie. In real terms, the only
entertaining five minutes in the movie are with Priety Zinta dancing
with the entire cast in a peppy item song having the right punch. But
that alone will not be able to bring huge crowds in to the theaters in
this festive season.
<|_=00=_|>
My verdict is it's watchable. I truly thought I'll have bad opinion
about this movie considering the severe criticisms I've been reading
about it of late. Surprise! It ain't bad at all, at least for me. It's
actually a nice entertainer, if you don't expect too much.

The pros are it's for family viewing, impressive performances, cute
story & chic costumes(sometimes didn't gel with the situation). While
the cons, I felt, were the too simple treatment(no scene lingers for
long in your mind) and the forgettable songs.

I think the show stealer was Sohail Khan with his naughty pranks that
makes you root for him throughout. Like Raj Kapoor in Mera Naam Joker,
our Khan laughs outside and silently weeps inside....Hey it's not a
tragic movie though. There are quite a number of funny moments which
eclipses the sadness. And no common clichés of a typical Bollywood
movie.

Regarding the other major performances - Salman Khan looked like he
didn't sleep for a week. Kareena Kapoor was pretty & showed understated
acting. Well done. Yash Tonk was another cool guy with a funny bone.
Both Sohail & Yash push the movie out of sheer boredom.

Whatever be the reviews out there, I say go for it if you wish, with a
bag of popcorn and munch with a smile :)
<|_=00=_|>
Watching a romantic comedy from Bollywood is a bit like reading a novel
written entirely in purple-prose. Whether comical or sentimental, every
emotion is ramped up to roof-rattling volume, with the endless
song-and-dance sequences serving as parenthetical expressions, and the
grating, out-of-control soundtrack adding what is the sonic equivalent
of exclamation points along the way.

"Main Aur Mrs Kanna" - a seriocomic tale of a rocky marriage and a
third-party friend who tries moving in on the wife - features all the
accoutrements listed above and then some, meaning that if this sort of
thing is your cup of tea, you might indeed enjoy the experience. If it
isn't, it's probably best to just pass it on by.
<|_=00=_|>
Main Aur Mrs. Khanna brings together for the first time the awesome
star pair Salman and Kareena. (It's a shame they decided to come
together for this film instead of Bhansali's Bajirao Mastani.) This
film has a different story, which I personally like. It deals with
real-life situations that people can relate to in today's times such as
unemployment frustration in the Western world due to the recession,
separation/divorce, along with the waking up of the submissive Indian
housewife. However, direction is extremely poor.

Sohail Khan is very irritating and can't act for beans in a
light-hearted/comic role. Also, I really, honestly think that Salman
and Sohail should never play a love triangle because it is simply not
convincing when the entire audience knows they are brothers. They have
made the same mistake in God Tussi Great Ho. Bappi-da pops up out of
nowhere and, as one would expect, adds a bizarre presence in the film.
It's great to see Preity after such a long time. Her item number is
quite nice, although it is a blatant copy of Kajra Re. Salman gives an
honest performance. Kareena is great for the most part (except when she
does a terrible job of acting drunk.) The final scene just verifies the
poor screenplay of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
When Samir Khanna (played by Salman Khan) abandons his wife Raina
(Played by Kareena Kapoor) at an airport in Sydney, Australia you as an
audience member might find it hard to tear yourself away from the
screen in your quest to unravel the mystery as to what is happening
between the seemingly happily married couple and why. 

But the movie (which started out well enough) as a good adult drama
about marriage only goes downhill from there on, with one ridiculous
plot twist/unbelievable scenario after the other. Like the whole
arranged marriage thing, the job Raina gets, the house she lives in
while Samir is in Singapore, I mean I could go on and on. Something was
just off with this one. Dino Morea, Nauheed Cyrusi, Sohail Khan and
Preity Zinta co-star.
