
I found this movie very enjoyable. Matthew McConaughey played a very
believable and spot on performance as Mick...I think the casting
decisions were great Marisa Tomei, Ryan Phillippe, William H. Macy,
Josh Lucas, etc. Did a fabulous job. The plot line was fantastic and
left you on the edge of your seat, the script was enjoyable, with both
serious dramatic scenes to funny lines that left the whole theatre
laughing. Over all a great movie thats targeted toward an older
audience 30's-60's. But I'm 13 and my mother took me and I loved it.
Although I'm a teenager and most of us just like a bunch of
romantic-comedies, I have a wider genre of love in movies. Hope you
enjoyed this one as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I know what you're thinking and I can agree with you that the name,
Matthew McConaughey, does not instill great confidence that you're
going to get a great movie experience. Now that is not to say that
McConaughey hasn't done some great movies. For every Ghosts of
Girlfriend's Past, Sahara, and Failure to Launch there are We Are
Marshall and How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days. Lincoln Lawyer is luckily
part of the later group and reminds us that McConaughey can carry movie
without having to take off his shirt in every scene.

Lincoln Lawyer is a thrilling drama about a cocky and smooth defense
attorney Mick Haller, played by McConaughey, who represents a
high-profile client on charges of attempted murder. But as new evidence
continues to pile on, Mick starts to grow suspicious that perhaps his
client isn't telling him everything. With twists and turns at every
corner, Lincoln Lawyer keeps you guessing till the very end.

With the help of that distinct country voice and southern charm,
McConaughey takes the movie to another level with this portrayal of the
fast-talking lawyer. With the role of Mick, McConaughey is actually
given a chance to show off a range of emotions that will truly surprise
viewers. Mcconaughey doesn't carry this alone, Lincoln Lawyer gets some
great acting from the likes of William H. Macy, Michael Pena, John
Leguizamo, Josh Lucas, and Marisa Tomei. The only black sheep of his
movie comes from the alleged murderer Louis Roulet, played by the ever
wooden Ryan Phillippe. The only thing I find amazing from Phillippe's
attempt at acting is his unique talent to deliver every line of
dialogue without moving a single muscle on his face.

The tension and intensity that begins to engulf Mike as the case
continues is stellar. Lincoln Lawyer really pushes Mike to edge as his
whole world becomes begins to collapse due to his Attorney-Client
relationship. This is where Lincoln Lawyer really comes alive and
delivers a must see movie experience. The court room scenes are some of
my favorite scenes in the movie and there are plenty. The approach they
took to portraying the lawyer aspect of the film feels accurate and
realistic. The plot is solid and keeps you invested right from the
beginning and keeps the grip tight throughout the movie. The movie
keeps a good pacing and the dialogue is smart and witty. The film's
color and camera work gives a very raw feel although at times it can be
a little too unstable. The story and characterization is done well but
there are a few things that should have been given more focus, like
Mike and Maggie's relationship and more insight as to why they got
divorced. The movie touches on the idea with a scene or two but never
really reveals too much. We also never really get too much on Mike's
relationship with his daughter. My biggest problem with the film was
the underwhelming ending that really had everything necessary to end
the movie with, but still felt lackluster when it came. However, don't
let these few problems sway you. I strongly recommend this film and
promise you that you will leave satisfied.

-www.MovieFloss.com
<|_=00=_|>
Agatha Christie would be proud of the five-twist ending to THE LINCOLN
LAWYER. The film is clearly top-notch and street smart. It's the most
efficient, solidly crafted courtroom thriller since PRIMAL FEAR and
WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION. It has so many twists and turns that it's
likely that Agatha Christie would be proud of it.

It also reignites the career of Matthew McConaughey as an actor, not
just a charismatic star. He manages to be smoothly appealing despite
playing a corrupt lawyer who has no scruples in defending guilty
clients as long as they provide the cash flow he demands. It's only
after defending RYAN PHILLIPPE from a charge of murder and rape that he
realizes he does have a few scruples left. And the plot twists provided
by the screenwriter John Romano from the novel by Michael Connelly, are
deftly handled for maximum shock effect. Brad Furman keeps the
direction tight, forceful and swift-moving.

The cast surrounding McConaughey has been selected with care and all of
them offer realistic performances. Marisa Tomei is appealing as his
ex-wife who knows his shortcomings but is still attracted to him, and
William H. Macy delivers a solid performance as his investigator
friend. Ryan Phillippe is excellent as the client whose surface
appearance belies the fact that he's as street smart as his sleazy
lawyer, and FRANCES FISHER is outstanding in a small but pivotal role
as the young man's protective mother.

Not since the days of PRIMAL FEAR and WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION has
there been a more intelligent script than this one, designed to baffle
and blindside the viewer in the course of unraveling some startling
surprises.

By all means, highly recommended for fans of this genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew McConaughey has arrived. He carries this movie. His presence
makes this movie happen. He is the spark that lights this movie's fire.
He takes a good story and makes it excellent. He projects the intensity
and savvy that makes his character interesting and unique. And this is
not hyperbole. Mr. McConaughey's performance is energetic, engaging and
entertaining. He manages to project street-smarts and style; he is
smart but not slick; he's realistic but not cynical; he is sensitive
but not mushy. Another surprise is Ryan Phillippe's excellent
performance which also adds considerably to the movie's entertainment
value as his character spars with Mr. McConaughey's. Although the story
itself is a variation of the detective-who-done-it genre, the effective
manner in which the story unfolds coupled with the excellent acting
makes this story well-worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey, this isn't half bad at all. I'll be honest and say I wasn't
expecting much, so it was nice to be pleasantly surprised. Okay, it's
no 'Primal Fear' - but it's as good as any Grisham adaptation.

The script is pacey and smart, with some excellent lines from the
central character - played with just the right balance of sass and
integrity by Matthew McConaughey. In fact, everyone in the cast was up
to the mark - and it's always a pleasure to see Marisa Tomei up there:
a fine actress who deserves to be seen more often. Willliam H Macy,
too, is always worth watching.

As for the story... I thought it gave an interesting angle on the
classic legal/moral problem : the failed defence in which an innocent
client goes to jail, and the successful defence that acquits a killer.

I haven't read the Michael Connelly novel, but I think I will now - if
only to see more of the Mick Haller character. His back-story wasn't
much more than suggested in the film - lost licence, broken marriage,
smartness that's a combination of natural intelligence and life at the
grittier edge of things. I want to know more! 

A couple of quiet spots, and a little bit of overstating the obvious (a
la 'CSI'), but otherwise this is a highly entertaining film. The
perfect antidote to some of the blockbusters and cartoons on offer at
the moment.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Enter: Matthew McConaughey. In his best performance (behind A Time to
Kill). It is obvious he was born to play the lawyer. The next lawyer TV
show, they should cast McConaughey. With the watered down crap he's
done for the past few years, it's amazing to see him in a good role.

The Lincoln Lawyer is a brilliant movie about the flaws in the justice
system, and one man who tries to correct them.

I can imagine how some people would have issues with the pacing. The
movie moves along at a very fast speed. If you can pay attention and
digest all of the information quickly, you'll enjoy it even more.

If you enjoy law movies, movies involving crime, movies with great
acting, then watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Playing the title role in The Lincoln Lawyer is Matthew McConaughey so
nicknamed because he conducts most of his business from his Lincoln
Town Car which is chauffeured by Laurence Mason. As he has to travel to
and from various courts, this makes it a whole easier. And the car and
Mason thereby become a business expense. Roy Cohn would have been
proud.

McConaughey is no idealist, his services come at a price. But it turns
out he has some scruples and they are put to the test when rich boy
Ryan Phillippe and his mother Frances Fisher hire him to defend Ryan
when he's arrested for rape. He was literally caught in the act as two
neighbors broke in and held him for the cops for raping Marguerite
Levieva. 

Due to the canons of the Bar Association ethics McConaughey finds
himself in a jackpot similar to the one Al Pacino found himself when he
played a young idealistic lawyer in And Justice For All. But the
results are a whole lot different because McConaughey is not an
idealist and he makes those canons work for him.

The film looks like the pilot of a TV series, but I doubt we'll get any
of the big name stars there if such a thing comes to pass. Marisa Tomei
co-stars as McConaughey's ex-wife and a prosecutor to boot. Can't
imagine what broke that marriage up. William H. Macy has a key role in
this film as well as a private investigator who works for McConaughey
and does very well in it.

The Lincoln Lawyer is a very well done addition to the legal cinema
with a cast that fills its roles out to a "T". I would really recommend
renting the Al Pacino classic And Justice For All and see the very
great similarities and key differences in both of these films.
<|_=00=_|>
The titular Lincoln lawyer is smooth Mick Haller who is just as smooth
as Matthew McConaughey. His sleaziness is entertaining, but his
lawyering is smart and intriguing. This film has pretty much the
perfect mix of a smart plot, with inventive twists, amusing one-liners,
and captivating thought-out characters.

Limited action and instead using characters who have an actual story,
we get a film that sets itself above its competitors. A charming, but
also smart and strong, Matthew McConaughey introduces us to a lawyer
who has a few inner turmoils that develop along with the plot. There
may be a few too many twists in the story (and with the camera), but
the evolution of McConaughey's Haller is rather subtle and not cliché.

Questions of innocence versus guilt surround Louis (Ryan Phillippe) as
Haller agrees to take on his case. But as the case starts to collide
with incidents of the past, present and future, similar questions of
guilt and innocence start plaguing Haller, his other clients, and the
other lawyers. The fact that all these other characters are played by
great actors only increases the entertainment value of this film. I
highly recommend taking a thoughtful ride with "The Lincoln Lawyer".
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Major dilemma: I am a sucker for
courtroom dramas vs. I am no fan of Matthew McConaughey. I decided to
give it a shot, and given my low expectations, I found the movie to be
quite entertaining - despite its numerous flaws. If you are a fan of
the endless stream of John Grisham book-turned-movie, then I expect you
will find this one to your taste.

Based on the Michael Connelly series of novels built around Mick
Haller, this one has the look and feel of part one. Haller is the
Lincoln Lawyer, so named because of his propensity to handle much of
his work from the backseat of a classic Lincoln Town Car. The choice of
McConaughey as Haller seemed all together wrong given his annual
appearance in some lame ass Rom-Com, where he spends most of each movie
shirtless and smirking. Luckily for us, Mr. McConaughey manages to
re-capture some of the acting skills he flashed in A Time to Kill, so
many years ago.

In addition to his close to the vest portrayal of Haller, the movie
works because of an incredibly deep cast that includes Marisa Tomei as
his ex-wife and frequent courtroom adversary (she is an ADA), Ryan
Phillipe as the accused rich boy, William H Macy as the long-time and
streetwise private investigator, Josh Lucas as the ADA in the main
case, Bryan Cranston as the detective in charge, plus Michael Pena, Bob
Gunton (warden from Shawshank), John Leguizamo, Frances Fisher,
Laurence Mason (Earl the driver), Shea Willingham (Boardwalk Empire),
Trace Adkins (country star as the leader of a biker gang) and Michael
Pare (Eddie and Cruisers). Seriously, this cast allows every scene to
have something worth watching.

The two things that prevent the movie from being top notch are the
beyond belief exaggerated moments (including about 3 too many endings)
and the absolutely distracting camera work courtesy of director Brad
Furman. In the hands of a more experienced director, many of the flaws
could have been corrected.

This is not presented as an ultra serious courtroom drama in the vein
of 12 Angry Men or Judgment at Nuremberg. Rather it is a character
driven story with a multitude of twists ... some of which work and some
of which don't. I found it to be quite enjoyable despite the script
issues and the hey-look-at-me direction.
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew McConaughey plays the sleazy, street-wise lawyer Mick Haller
who at one point exclaims that he 'couldn't believe he was representing
an innocent man' which goes to show the types of people he defends. The
Lincoln Lawyer follows the story of Haller as he takes on Louis Roulet
(Played by Ryan Phillippe) who has been suspected of assault. But as he
represents him starts to question the good in what he is doing and the
morals of his actions. This is one of McConaughey's finest roles in a
long time but is nothing compared to William H. Macy who plays his
detective in the case and brings a charismatic and involved attitude,
stealing the limelight off of anyone else on screen.

The problems that lie within The Lincoln Lawyer however are the
horrible plot points that often appear out of nowhere to do nothing
other than twist the story, especially around the halfway mark of the
film. Along side this is the constant thought of how this would fit
better as a late night television movie, it doesn't feel cinematic
enough and the courtroom scene feel like missed opportunities to show
this. That being said the film is entertaining enough while it lasts
and the actors really throw themselves into their roles, despite the
clichéd character development. There are worse ways to kill a few
hours.
