
I love a good romantic comedy but Baggage Claim in nowhere even near
that type of movie. It seemed more like an corny SNL skit that lasts
over an hour. I had the movie already figured out in the first 15
minutes and had to endure the rest of the flick. This plot is just one
notch above that goofy Soul Plane from a few years back and a few below
Tyler Perry's Madea Goes to Jail. A better script, more realistic
characters and a more serious touch the movie might be average. Paula
Patton is beautiful as always that you can't deny and Ty Diggs is an
accomplished actor but they need to move on into some more serious
roles. My advise is don't waste your time on this one. I still can't
believe I didn't walk out.
<|_=00=_|>
Paula Patton is so sweet and beautiful that it's difficult to not like
any movie she's in. However, I found the premise in this rom-com
fantasy to be so absurd that I couldn't get past it.

Patton portrays Montana Moore, a flight attendant for Trans Alliance
Airlines. She's been a bridesmaid 9 times but never a bride, while her
domineering and annoying mother Catherine (Jenifer Lewis) has already
been married 5 times. She's constantly pressuring Montana to find a man
to marry, and now that Montana's younger sister is engaged the pressure
is ratcheted up even further.

So what's the game plan, so Montana can "get a man" in thirty days, by
the time of her sister's engagement party? Why, of course it's to flag
all of her ex-boyfriends who are flying for the holidays and match
Montana up with their flights. For this she will get the help of her
two friends and fellow flight attendants Gail and Sam, ably portrayed
by Jill Scott and Adam Brody. At least, they provide some much need
comic relief here.

Of all the "hunks" she will meet on these flights, I liked Taye Diggs
the best as Langston, who's a smarmy and egotistical politician, and
who still has a caveman mentality. While Montana is trying to meet all
these potential suitors, she maintains a strong friendship with William
(Derek Luke), whom she's known since elementary school and just happens
to live next door to her in their apartment building.

As noted by a number of reviewers you can guess which way this film is
going and it doesn't disappoint in that regard. Overall, this movie,
written and directed by David E. Talbert, based on his book, despite
some funny moments and a feel-good ending was way too contrived and
predictable for my liking.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea whether or not Paula Patton actually read the script
before signing up for the role, but this movie certainly does little to
nothing but justify her talents. If you've watched her in Deja Vu, then
this movie will strike you as the lowest she's ever sunken in her movie
roles. The storyline is very weak to say the least. You can literally
guess what will happen from one scene to the very last, including the
credits. I felt sorry for actors like Trey Songz. If he is serious
about acting, this may not have been a good movie to make his first
impression in. The movie's attempt at humor was also poor. There was
only one joke the audience laughed at in the whole movie. I am not
surprised the movie was pulled out from the theaters in my neighborhood
after only a few days. It is one that belongs to the DVDs.
<|_=00=_|>
By Jonathan L Hermitt

After watching this movie, the only thing that should be "claimed" is a
refund. 

Director-writer David E Talbert provided a creatively idle rom-com
starring Paula Patton (Montana Moore); as a flight attendant who under
the pressure of her mother (Jennifer Lawrence) and the wedding
engagement of her younger sister (Lauren London) somehow finds herself
in a position where she has to locate and bring a fiancé to her
sister's rehearsal dinner in thirty days. In doing so, she uses her
friends to set up an arguably illegal "spy network" to find out which
of her ex- boyfriends are taking which flights- so she can manipulate
herself aboard and hopefully start again with these men.

She wears the long, straight rom-com hair of ignorance with the smile
of innocence which I like to call a ritual of rom-com. The story was
naturally predictable adhering to every single rom-com textbook story
model and so heavily resting on weak humour. Alongside the contemporary
traditional female friend and gay male friend duo (similar to Devil's
Wear Prada) it's one large equation for mediocre...if that. 

I'm not particularly familiar with Talbert and this is the first film
I've seen of his, regardless, in this film it's strongly indicative
that he's chosen quantity over quality.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what movie the critics were watching, but the ratings were
totally unfair. The audience and I found the movie to be very funny.
David Talbert produced a funny, relevant movie. See it with your female
friends because they will find things in it are so true. Nothing can be
more funny than the truth. So don't take the critics word for this
movie see it yourself.

Paula Patton, Adam Brody and Jill Scott were so funny. I expected Adam
to be funny because of his work on 'The O.C.", but Paula and Jill were
pleasant surprises. Jennifer Lewis delivered another excellent
performance and Taye Diggs understated performance was dead-on for his
character.
<|_=00=_|>
A story about baggage, the emotional type that people carry for not
conforming to society's norms. The film deals with the concept of
marriage, how we all are made for it and the attractive leading lady
has somehow not tied the knot though keenly looking for her Mr Right
and though she went far, she seemed to miss what is good and near.
Whilst in the quest, she discovers her no-no's in men and how once
someone is an ex, it is best he stays an ex.

Ultimately, the question has to arise: do people marry because they
want to and are committed to it or because they have to?

Whilst it offers a charming and pleasant experience it is not inventive
as a story, succumbing to the rom-com principle of Mr & Mrs perfect
live happily ever after. Not a bad experience for viewers who go in
couples.
<|_=00=_|>
Although predictable for me, because this so resembles aspects of my
personal dating life, it was fun to watch a romantic comedy with an
ensemble cast. I know personally I could relate a great deal to the
storyline and I'm sure many other women, and some men, can as well.
Many of us have had similar experiences in life; always seeking to make
others proud of us based on their criteria of how we should live, not
being fulfilled in our lives because we feel we need a spouse to be
happy, overlooking the person who has been there for us through thick
and thin, sending ourselves on searches for the "right" one for us
because we believe they must exist, even going backwards to try again
with those who didn't deserve us the first time. It happens. All of it.
And it all happens in Baggage Claim. In the end, being able to make a
decision for your own life and waking up to the love in front of you is
the moral of the story. Whether you like the movie or not, or like
Paula Patton or not, sometimes movies are made to make us think, not
just for us to criticize. David E. Talbert was making several points in
Baggage Claim, all of which someone, somewhere can benefit from and
leave the theater with a smile, knowing they are not alone in their
dating dilemmas.
<|_=00=_|>
It is an OK movie. But it shows very well how women are desperately
looking for a husband and getting married and constantly worried about
their age and their expiry date. 

It shows very well how girls treat the nice "just friends" guys and
expect them to get services while having sex with all the guys in the
town.

It can be a very good example to those "nice guys" who put women on
pedestal and have no idea of how desperate they're and how girls plan
to find a husband and how they use stupid guys like the staff at the
airport and the housemate guy to get to the rich guys.

It was a great example of what guys should NOT do when dealing with
women.

The movie reminded me the advices from Professor Tom Leykis a lot. If
the guys follow the rules of professor they will get good results.
<|_=00=_|>
this was kinda a feel good film it made me feel good . i saw lots of
attractive people no guns no drugs no cops with guns no bad language.
Now i love sum gun fights naked strippers fast cars gang bangers with
tattoo's.But does anybody want to drag themselves threw the mock at the
films all the time? NO! So the review of this movie is rated AS A CHICK
FLICK.If you want to have a good time with a nice soft female and maybe
get some wine in her and some Chinese OR TY food.This film may get a
guy layed.Save this flick for the nite when you want to go sensitive
and show em that a real guy can bend without breaking.HAVE FUN AT THE
MOVIES...
<|_=00=_|>
Playwright David Talbert directs this so called romantic comedy
starring Paula Patton as Montana Moore, a lovelorn woman and flight
attendant desperate to find true love. After finding out that her
little sister is getting married, Montana becomes obsessed with finding
a man. So obsessed that with the help of her friends and fellow flight
attendants, she tracks down all of her ex boyfriends to see if true
love blossoms. Frantically flying from one city to another eventually
leads her to her best friend William (Derek Luke)as they realize
they're feelings for each other in the end.

Aside from the all star cast, there are so many things wrong with this
film. For one, the plot is so unrelatable and cliché. There's a scene
in the beginning where Montana runs through the airport saying
"According to my mother, you're not a lady unless you're married on or
before your 30th birthday. You're not a woman until you've had at least
two kids". If I watch one more romantic comedy that consist of
mindless, pathetic dialogue like this, I'll scream ! Why would a
beautiful woman, a good woman who could clearly have any man she wants
spend so much time chasing down ex flames who a) weren't right for her
and b) clearly show the same reasons as to why she broke up with them
or vice versa in the first place.

The directing is poor. David Talbert, writer and director of several
wonderful stage plays resorts to using corny clichés and weak dialogue
to carry the film along and it just doesn't work. It's the same old
plot of the lonely girl/guy putting themselves in stupid and
unnecessary situations to seek love and romance. Oh and of course
there's the case of the pretentious and even more desperate, proud,
loving mom who due to her own snooty, high standards, pressures her
daughters into believing that a man is necessary to have to prove that
you're a woman, a role that Jenifer Lewis, as talented as she is,
continues to play very well.

The acting is mediocre. Paula Patton, Jill Scott, Derek Luke and Adam
Body are all good actors. Yet, its unfortunate that the acting wasn't
up to par. In addition, the wacky performance by several co stars such
as Trey Songz and Tia Mowry do not do the film any justice.

The film would've been better with an original plot and better dialogue
and acting.
