
This is a great idea. A technical genius who is somehow able to commit
revenge murders from his jail cell. He doesn't hide the fact he's a
killer; in fact he announces each murder just before it happens.

Technically everything was possible and the method very cleverly hidden
so I was kept in suspense until the last 20 minutes when the cat was
let out of the bag too early. The ending is a let down. It's true
Hollywood: Technically improbable, illogical, and in my opinion it
spoils all the character development made until that point and wastes
the opportunity for a much darker ending with a more satisfying
outcome.

All that said I really enjoyed it. I would recommend it to anyone not
disturbed by moderate violence. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have high expectations for this movie and only went because my
friend made me. That being said I loved it. I actually wanted to
applaud and cheer at one point and I never do that. Clyde now ranks as
on of my favorite characters ever. Now for the bad part. Jamie Foxx was
horrible!!!!!!! I don't understand why directors and casting directors
like to put bad actors against good actors. It seems to be an ever
increasing trend in Hollywood. we saw it in "the Italian job" and we
see it here. Jamie's acting was the worst I had seen in a long time. He
showed no emotion at all. I would have liked to see a better actor cast
but hey who am I? Also, listen up producers, the ending was
ridiculous!!!! I mean come on. you build this character up only for a
huge let down. That was by far one of the most irresponsible endings to
a movie I have ever had the misfortune to see. When I tell people to
see this I am recommending that they leave at a specific point about
15min before it's over and imagine your own ending because no matter
what it will be better. Endings like that is the reason people watch
independent films. This movie could have been an all time classic but
for Jamie Foxx and the writer's lazy ending. It still may because I
loved most of it. I pray someday producers figure out that we want
something a little different and allow things to end the right way, the
responsible way for their viewers.

Thank you,
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was not unlike other movies where you see the good guy go
rogue after rough handling by "the system". But I really liked the
development of the characters in the beginning, and I am sure I am not
the only one out there hoping that the "Law Abiding Citizen" would be
able to pull it off.

Then came the middle where plot points become strained, where we have
to take a few leaps of faith and leave the world of genius for one of
Hollywood. OK, I'm still there, taking the ride with you.

But then we get to the ending which destroys the film and makes it into
brain pablum; mental oatmeal that anyone can digest but no one can get
any flavor from. Mr. Genius buys several industrial areas -- but why?
Only 2 seemed to be necessary for the plot. And why would Panama know
the purchase prices? And down to the cent! Corporations don't need to
share that information with foreign governments. Nix that link and this
movie would have been more interesting. We're expected to believe a
genius would leave the cleaning cart in obvious view in the hallway and
right next to the area where he put the bomb? We're expected to believe
the genius wouldn't have trapped his escape route. And we're expected
to believe they transferred this bomb from Point A to Point B without
setting it off and in record time, all while Foxx waits in the cell,
and Scotty Junior brings up the rear, unseen and unheard.

I wanted Foxx's arrogant character to lose his daughter, to feel what
this man went through, and then I wanted him to get away with it.

Anyone agree?
<|_=00=_|>
LOL so I went to this movie expecting 2-ish hours of non-stop righteous
anger and awesomeness a la "Taken"... the movie built up pretty well
with some flaws (why does he need to mysteriously need to escape from
the cell and be his own accomplice?). And ended in probably the worst
way I could possibly imagine. If I wanted to come up with the ultimate
Hollywood BS ending, I could not have thought of what they pulled out
of their *** myself. At some point the movie makes the conversion where
Gerard Butler goes from good guy to bad, and Jamie Fox becomes the good
guy... I definitely did not follow. Why would I want to see a movie
where the morally bankrupt lawyer wins!? LOL that's so terrible it's
worse than laughable; it's worth about 5 mins of laughing and 15 mins
of ranting outside the theater after the movie ends (which I did btw).
In a situation where the protagonists' wife and 10-year old daughter
are raped and murdered, the entire system deserves to be brought down.
If I go to a movie where the system screws over the little guy and that
little guy comes back to dish out real justice, I absolutely,
positively DO NOT want to see the "system" win in the end, regardless
of any Hollywood-ed glossed over change of heart the corrupt lawyer
might happen to have. I'd give it about an 8.5-9.0 until the last 15
minutes where it rapidly plummets to a 1.0 at best. Worst. Ending.
Ever.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that's extremely fun to watch in the theaters because
you get to hear and see everyone's reaction to each of his killings.
The best one had people actually saying loudly "wow" and "oh my god!".

What drew me to the movie was the fact that the hero wasn't going
around killing people with his bare hands or face to face. He was doing
it with his mind, with careful planning, and deft precision. That was
something refreshing to see. I can totally relate to his feelings of
anger over the flaws in the justice system and his desire to take
matters into his own hands - to make things right.

The ending was disappointing but the rest of the film was not and I
liked it overall.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so the premise of the ending is that, although the justice system is
flawed, you cant just kill people to get your own justice and you are
becoming what you hate and it will lead to your demise. So how does the
director explain then that Foxx, the supposed good guy of the film,
instead of using the justice system he represents to hold Butler
accountable for his crimes, does instead just murder him in his cell.
How does that make him any different to Butler. But Foxx murdering
someone is apparently OK and he goes on to have a happy life watching
his daughter play the cello. Murdering someone because they are
murdering because of the murder of other people. Irony anyone.

Its a real shame but the stupidity and lack of bravery in giving the
film the ending it deserved just ruined it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched LAW ABIDING CITIZEN. I don't know why i still bother
watching American movies. It's a decade-long Hollywood tradition to
screw up good ideas by illogical plots and happy endings. The WHOLE
point of the movie, bringing DOWN the legal system could only be proved
if Shelton was to walk free after all he did. To show that the legal
system was unable to hinder him murdering people though being in
custody AND had to set him free, because the DA and the judge broke the
law to stop his series of murder thus ignoring his civil rights which
would ultimately lead to dismissing all charges. The supposed plot to
blow up the mayor and homeland security does not at all fit neither the
character of Shelton nor the plot of the movie. Good movie screwed up
completely in the last 15 minutes. Hollywoods Epitaph.
<|_=00=_|>
...This movie would be a real treat...

I enjoy'd this movie really much and i must say that i find my self
wondering - why this good movie had to end so badly. The characters are
good and there is no question why... Jamie is good and no need to say
that Gerard is one of the best "new" actors in "the market". Also the
story is good and even better is the story telling, but this is only my
opinion.

The best that i can say is: if you have seen "Taking of Pelham123" and
liked that movie, then you will also like this one. And both of these
movies have two things in common, they both were good movies, with bad
endings...

I don't want to be critical and also don't want to say much good things
about this movie, because this one of these movies what go to the
department of "have to see it my self" And I'm about 75% sure that you
will enjoy this movie. But once again, what a shame about the ending...
<|_=00=_|>
I cant believe it, why the ending is always bad. It's great movie until
the end. People, believe me, make a movie in which the bad guy wins, it
will be better, take my word on it!!!!!! It was one of the better
movies i have seen in last six months, and i still got to repeat that
the ENDING was awful. Great actors, great story, and why always justice
prevail, my question is: What do you rather watch, be honest, the bad
guy who wins the American justice, or the other ending?! I think the
first choice is the right answer, i am certain that all of you think
the same.

Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really takes the cake. It's focused on a father (Clyde) who
gets beaten and his wife and daughter are killed by 2 crooks. However
the crooks' punishment was dimmed down because of a deal made by the
lawyers(Jamie Fox). 10 years later, Clyde decides to take out the
entire corrupt justice system.

This movie really keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the main
character Clyde really makes this movie something memorable and just
extraordinary. You can compare Clyde to the Joker pretty much, but in
my opinion 10 times better. Clyde devises sneaky and cunning ways by
taking down his victims and the whole sense on whether he is the hero
or villain also adds to the excitement. Jamie Fox also does a great job
playing his character, a heroic yet corrupt lawyer.

There are a few scenes that will guaranteed make you laugh and a few
scenes that will pretty much tell you that Clyde is just one kickbutt
character, no questions about it. Every scene you will be wondering
what will happen next, because you honestly won't know. The movie has a
few twists and turns and will always keep you guessing. If you want to
see something that is highly suspenseful, will keep you on the edge of
your seat, and includes 2 very unique and questionable characters, then
you must see this movie. Law Abiding Citizen will not disappoint.
