
I will be the first to admit that I am a major fan of the the first
Karate Kid and not a fan of Jaden Smith. However, I went into this
movie expecting to be disappointed in Jaden and walked away
disappointed in 3 totally different things. After watching this film, I
am convinced that Will Smith bought off the critics and those that
voted this highly or said this was better than the original were 1 of 3
things 1) A plant of the studio or close friends. 2) under the
influence, or 3) too busy getting physically pleasured to really focus.
This film had 3 major flaws and Jadens acting ability or lack thereof
was the least of this films worries and truthfully, though I don't
think Jaden can act his way out of a paper bag, his performance didn't
help or hurt the film, I think he was the same as he was in the others.
with that said, I will say that his martial arts skills were good and
it's obvious that he put in a lot of work and effort into learning the
form. I'll give credit where credit is due and for that reason I give
this a 4. However, this film lacks the 3 C's. Cohesion, Chemistry and
Character development. Lets start with Cohesion.

Cohesion: For those that don't know what cohesion means, its the glue
that holds and strings things together, makes it flow seamlessly. If
you have A-C cohesion would be "B". There were a lot of A's and C's no
B's.This film left you wondering many times "how did we get here?" Lets
put aside the fact that Jaden is in a new country and doesn't know the
language. I found it very interesting how he and his mother got around
so well with just having got there. There was no explanation for much
of anything at all and at times it appeared that things were thrown in
just to have an excuse to have a love interest, or for Jaden to be
bullied or for his mom to have some dialogue. Like the original Karate
Kid or not, did you at any point feel "this movie is dragging along?"
Which brings me to...

Chemistry: There was none AT ALL, it felt like a 1 night stand. No ones
performance made me give a damn about their cause. Some say well Ralph
Macchio didn't give an Oscar worthy performance. Well he didn't have to
be Daniel Day Lewis in the film because he and Pat Morita had
chemistry. Ralph was raw and natural and Pat's comedic timing and
seriousness was on point every time. You cared about them. Billy Zabka
and his croonies had personality you hated them and even cheered for
Johnny at times, Daniels mom, Lucille had ridiculous personality, even
sensei was personable. I felt too much was rushed and an attempt to
include nostalgia. Chan was decent in here, but he and Jaden did not
bond well at all, nor did Jaden and his mother. This was not a role for
Taraji, Elise Neal would have been better. The girl was just thrown in
for the sake of a cute girl and introduction to the bully, which takes
me to my final point..

Character development: It is hard to have cohesiveness and chemistry if
your characters are poorly developed. Yes this is a Karate Kid remake
and don't lie and say its not, some of the exact same dialogue, exact
same scenarios, changing the country and training/learning tools does
not make it a re-imagining, a re imagined film doesn't use anything pre
existing. But how you can not build the characters is beyond me. Again,
Dre's mom was just in their for the sake of Dre having a mother. She
did a lot of non sensible things. I mean where did she work for heavens
sakes? We knew Lucille was working at the computer place and then the
orient restaurant. She let him just do kung fu with Mr. Han without any
knowledge of him. Han didn't fix a bike or anything. Lucille knew
Miyagi he did a few things before befriending Daniel. Johnny the
spoiled brat had great development, Ali from the hills, Sensei the
Vietnam vet who was militant. Can you honestly tell me why the bully in
this remake was the way he was and who in the hell was sensei, what is
his background? The story telling was simply awful, everything was just
plain rushed. So I am not going to bash this movie because of Jadens
braids or his skin color or because of his rich daddy. I am
recommending not to see this because its flat out boring. My 10 year
old daughter finds joy in almost any film, she fell asleep on this one,
we were at the drive in, people where driving away. Oh and Jadens
dialogue near the end before his absurd comeback, sounded like he was
tired of filming and just wanted to get the lines over with. Ralph may
not be stellar, but at least you cared about his character and the
supporting cast. Remove the characters from this film and see what
difference it makes. Meaning, if you take out Ali from KK1, you will
feel something is missing. Remove the chick from this one and any cause
could replace her, not saying she wasn't good at her role, it just
wasn't memorable or necessary.

I'll put it like this, when you walked away from the original KK and
even to this day, you don't call Pat Morita, Pat Morita, you see his
photo and you say "that's Mr. Miyagi" you see Ralph, you don't call him
Ralph, you call him Daniel -san" Their characters were believable. you
walk from this and its Jaden and Jackie Chan. I hope JW (Jerry
Weintraub) got paid good for this, because this is beneath him. Poor
character development, poor story. The end
<|_=00=_|>
Clumsy exposition that is trying to be subtle, but ends up being super
direct, in that intellectually insulting way. From the beginning to the
end, this movie really talks down to its audience, even if the
demographic aimed at is children. I found myself laughing at serious
scenes which were not only bizarre but ridiculously overreaching. I
really hate it when stories explain directly what is painfully obvious,
or try to insert it, in unrealistic and absurd ways.

Jacket on and Jacket off is no wax on wax off. At least in the original
film, Daniel thought he was being put to work, here it's just outright
bizarre. Jaden's character seems to be oblivious of the obvious, and
unquestioning of the ridiculous.

Ralph Macchio's performance was far more believable. Jaden Smith goes
way to far way too quick, from wimp to kung fu champion. The
exaggeration and elaborate fight scenes really removed me from a sense
of realism, that its predecessor had.

I found the mother character to be at odds with this move. I would have
preferred if her role was downplayed. She was ultimately lacking
chemistry with Jaden and not an interesting character, mostly annoying.

Just a quick comparison with Pat Morita and Jacky Chan. Chan is flash
with Chinese superstition. Pat was subtle with universal wisdom and was
far more endearing.

There is just far too much mundane filler, it really slows the movie
down and in conclusion when this movie wasn't extremely bizarre, I
found it to be more flash than substance.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, more so than any film this year, has had the most "noise"
generated. Mostly from people ignorant of the film and just exactly how
good or bad it is. The discussion has been centered on why call it "The
Karate Kid" if he is learning Kung Fu. It is easy; the name is
recognition and "Kung Fu Kid" sounds like a ripoff, not a remake and
this is a remake and they are not hiding the fact. Enough said,
explanation done, go back to your bowl of cereal.

This film takes what was done in the original film and has nicely
upgraded across the board. First, we have more of a threat from the kid
doing the bullying this time around rather than a caricature. The
mother/son dynamic is stronger and given much more screen time. The
romance is more playful and innocent, with the friendship aspect
ultimately being the plot focus. The student/teacher dynamic has an
even stronger father/son underlying tone and finally, the action is
much much improved upon.

All of the above is due to excellent performances across the board.
Jaden Smith shows to be a more than capable actor in the making and
with no doubt observation of Chan, who we FINALLY get to see in a
dramatic role rather than action/comedy role. Smith and Chan have a fun
chemistry that helps make the film enjoyable.

I was afraid through the ads that Smith's abilities would be over the
top great, but through an excellent training montage and philosophical
lessons, we buy that this kid is as good as he is in the tournament.

A standout moment for me was the final bonding scene between Chan and
Smith. It is during a moment reminiscent of the original film's scene
where Daniel finds out about Mr. Miagi's family. Here, we have a
similar scene, but it is what happens after it that establishes their
relationship and seals the audiences relationship to these two
characters. Excellent excellent scene.

One other standout moment is the climax where they do a great job of
ending the movie on a pitch perfect note. I had heard of audiences
literally standing up and cheering, but I figured that was embellished.
That is until the very same thing happened at the showing I caught this
afternoon. You literally do want to stand up and cheer. They also take
the moment a step further than the original did and provided an close
to the lesson that Jackie's Mr Han was teaching Smith's Dre. It became
a full circle lesson and really helped the movie have an even more
satisfying end.

The extended scenes of life in China really help to ground this film in
the philosophical realm, even more so than the original. There is a
richness and texture to everything that takes place against the
backdrop of China. It has an even more "fish out of water" feel that
lends to the believability and desperation of Smith's character. We
also have a lot more character building time spent in this film that
gives it about 13 more minutes run time than the original, but those
extra moments really pay off in a big way. As I mentioned previously,
we get more of Dre and his mom. They don't just show up and then she
gets thrown into a few scenes like in the original. She is an important
part of Dre's life and it is shown. 

The one thing I noticed the most about this film was the amount of
families that attended it. I think it is the first film of the year
where adults and kids can go and enjoy a film together and both come
out with the same emotions and lessons learned. That would be a
reflection of the film itself as it shows Mr Han learning from his
student, something that gives the film a welcome twist when compared to
the original.

Those that have pre-judged this film or gotten caught up in the name
game really need to see the film before they make any judgments. This
film is a VERY welcome surprise and more than holds it own against the
original. It stays loyal to the lessons and relationships of the
original film and brings them forward 25 years later.
<|_=00=_|>
From the previews I knew this movie wasn't going to do justice to the
original. I mean, can anything? I wasn't planning on watching it, but
my best friend wanted to see it and I gave in. Bad idea. It was a waste
of my money. 

First and foremost, let us point out what a lot of people have already
mentioned. Jayden Smith cannot act. Like, at all. I don't care if he's
Will Smith's son, it's not like acting is genetic. He was just trying
too hard to be funny, and too hard to be serious. It didn't seem
natural, like he was in the moment. Just him... acting. Of course, I
can't say the same for Jackie Chan. He didn't do much, and that was
good! Not that I don't like Jackie Chan, it's just it's good to see him
as a trainer for once. I wish he would have fought more, though.

Secondly, the plot sucked. I mean, it was a bunch of middle-schoolers
flying. Like, I get China is a little crazy on the Kung Fu, but come
on! The fighting scene where "Dre" is running from the Chinese kids is
not that bad of a scene, I'll admit, but it kept occurring to me that
these kids are like 10 and 12. Then there's the whole Dre and Chinese
girl romance thing. I was falling asleep every time they were together.
I mean, you're 12! As someone else on IMDb said, there is no sexual
tension! Sure it's family-orientated, but it's uninteresting to the
rest.

Then the predictability. The friend who dragged me there told me half
of the whole movie, and she's never watched it before. It's so boring
sitting there knowing what's going to happen. Of course, he was going
to win, of course he was going to run faster. Of course Jackie Chan
would save him, like, I didn't even have to watch the whole thing to
know what was going to happen. 

Also, a lot of the scenes were pointless. I can see why the movie was
so long. I can only imagine if they have an extended version! Dre
drinking from the Dragon water or whatever, what did that do? I also
didn't understand why Jackie was so reluctant to teach Dre at first. I
imagined it had something to do with the crazy trainer, but with all
the time they had, never developed a true story. Okay, so he got into
an accident and killed his wife and kid... I'm sorry? Like, what does
that have to really do with anything? 

Overall, it wasn't worth watching. Or maybe it's not a movie you'd
watch twice, because I sure as hell won't. God forbid they make a
sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so I'll give the movie some credit for trying to be a coming of age
type story. If you can sit through the first half hour plus of Jaden
Smith being a complete brat to everyone (especially his mother who just
lays down and takes it), then maybe you get to Jackie Chan's short (and
only) real fight scene, and Jaden learning some Kung Fu.

I grew up a Will Smith fan and the Fresh Prince and some of his early
movies were good. But seriously Will does whatever he wants now, which
is mostly complete garbage (can you say Hancock???). I respect what he
does, but seriously him shamelessly buying his son into a movie is
ridiculous. Maybe in 10years Jaden will have some actual acting skills,
but for now this movie has been hyped up way too much and is way too
crappy to be worth anyones time. I respect the effort Jaden put in to
training for the Kung Fu in the movie, but maybe he should have spent a
lot more time actually practicing acting. His acting is not good and he
spends the movie trying to be a bad ass. A couple more beatings from
the other kids in this movie and you think he'd be humble instead of
thinking he was the toughest guy out there. The acting is pretty bad,
and anyone who thinks the acting and script are good are idiots and
probably blame it on a language barrier for the supporting cast. Will
should've produced this entire movie in Mandarin and slapped subtitles
on it so then its just a crap version of a Kung Fu movie and we don't
notice the terrible acting that accentuates a bad script.

The only redeeming quality of this movie is Jackie Chan, and he isn't
at his comedic best (because lets face it, we all love Jackie because
he's funny). But if you like Jackie beating up a group of kids, then
fast forward to almost the 40th minute, watch about 2 minutes of the
movie and that's all you need to see. Then you can come and write a
review saying how amazing the movie is and be ignorant to the fact that
rest of the movie sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
Last Saturday, I went to watch this movie with a friend of mine and his
children. Actually his children wanted to watch the movie. But after 40
minutes the children couldn't stand anymore so we left. 

In this remake of Karate Kid starred Jaden Smith the son of a very
important American actor (that's how he got the part) and Jackie Chan.
The remake is roughly two and half hour and his definitely not
comparable even for just a sec with the original one. 

In the original Karate kid starred Ralph Macchio and the late Pat
Morita. The original was a good movie. With a lots of action, drama and
love. 

By the way, although the movie-maker have tried to cover up Jaden Smith
poor acting, everybody can understand that he can't act.

Save your money and watch the original or watch something else. 

Hopefully they don't do a sequel for Karate Kid 2
<|_=00=_|>
What a waste of 36 bucks. And that doesn't count the popcorn and
drinks. Somehow I got dragged into this movie by my kid and was
prepared to see a Will Smith horror of a remake but figured I take one
for the team.

It was worse.

Not only was the charm and creativity of the original completely absent
from this gratuitous Smith family showcase, but the whole premise was
preposterous. Although they claim he is 12, the actual actor is 10
going on 11 and so frail that you fear his limbs are actually going to
snap should he land a blow in real life. Totally miscast project with
such a offensive plot to actual Chinese culture that I have to believe
it will be changed dramatically for Asian release or simply only
available on bootleg in China.

Even if there was no original charismatic "Karate Kid" to compare this
to, it was way too full of Will Smith ego and nepotism to be seriously
considered as a piece of legitimate, quality film.

Simply put...awful.
<|_=00=_|>
After renting the movie, I was definitely not impressed with the
script, nor with the acting. Being a fan of the original that came out
when i was a kid, I'm a little biased but looking at it apart from the
original series, it still REALLY SUCKED. Of course, one of the biggest
fouls is they're labeling it the "Karate" Kid, the Japanese martial
art, when in the movie Jaden Smith's character learns Kung Fu, the
Chinese martial art. Even for franchising purposes, it's still pretty
stupid. For me, the movie painted several very unrealistic scenarios.
The biggest one was the casting of Taraji P. Henson to play the role of
Sherry. The whole movie, she presents her character as a complete idiot
who knows almost nothing about the world or her son and has somehow
miraculously survived layoffs & firings to be transferred to the same
job in Beijing. She portrays her character so poorly it makes the plot
extremely unbelievable in that no one would ever move someone this dumb
to what would presumably be a somewhat important position, or any
position for that matter, half way across the world. Somehow they must
be short of workers in China and need ours for some reason or another.
Another unrealistic scenario was the portrayal of the Chinese students
portraying than a group of Americanized thugs completely removed from
their parents & their culture. I've been many places in the world but
there's no other place on earth where respect & honor are held in such
high regard and the extent of their actions are far beyond what you
would even see here in the U.S., . Not only that but the script makes
it seem like everyone in Beijing looks the other way when this kid is
getting the crap beat out of him. It's really an insult to the Chinese
culture on many levels. And are to believe that Jaden Smith's Character
learned several months, if not a years, worth of Kung Fu & strength
training in the matter of days, only by hanging up a jacket on a mere
peg? NO, NO WAY!!! It's about as stupid as thinking you will learn a
martial art from Diamond Dave, "The Redneck Ninja". I get they're
trying to recycle the "Wax on, Wax off" example from the Karate Kid 1
but this is just ridiculous. As for the acting of Jaden Smith, his
interaction with every cast member is flaky at best and so was his
acting overall, especially with his Chinese love interest which seemed
more like two 10 year olds trying to carry out a teenage relationship.
As a whole, the script is downright terrible and the acting was
extremely weak if not dreadful. Although it was entertaining enough and
it's definitely not the worst movie I've ever seen, you should save you
money & look for something else.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't envy writer Christopher Murphey's task in this reinvention of
the original 1984 underdog tale. 

Firstly, the second time scribe is dealing with source material which
was dull at best, but strangely transcended that to become an absolute
cult classic for all children of the 80s. This was in part down to Joe
Esposito's 'You're the best around' inspired soundtrack mixed with an
innocent fighting spirit which beat much of societies ills to the black
belted punch - questions such as why is this old man taking such
special interest in the Ralph Macchio character? Will all these kids
become obese when they invent video games?

Karate as I remember it involved the fairly peculiar kids at school
wearing white terry towelling suits under normal anoraks while standing
at bus stops rather too late at night. Clearly Hollywood remembers
something far different as we find Dre Parker (Jaden Smith) high
kicking high above the Chinese landscape atop the Great Walls highest
turret with Jackie Chan's Mr Han watching attentively. 

Yes, the reimagining takes the action to Beijing where Dre's somewhat
distant widower Mother has relocated their family to teach English. Her
small part is all too evident as a bit part, under considered and
stilted to Smith's Dre and almost entirely inconsiderate and sometimes
rude. While the Chinese backdrop plays up the traditions and values of
karate (almost entirely referenced as Kung Fu, which I believe to be
different) it is repeatedly demonised by Americanisms whether that be
the basketball court hustle Dre encounters on his arrival or the
bonkers set piece where Dre's mother walks through a slummy shopping
Market carrying a Bloomingdales style bag - give the girl a Starbucks
latte in a takeout cup. 

Hollywood interpretations aside, Karate Kid struggles with an average
performance from debut lead Smith whose dialogue and regards to his
largely Chinese co-cast are on the same time time delay that his
character complains of early in the movie. Chan of course is his
brilliant sole- choreographed self but even after so much time, is
sometimes barely understandable yet the subtitles ignore him
completely. When he's riffing with Dre's Detroit Street, it makes the
entire film impossible to follow were it not for a plot lifted directly
from the original. 

Sure, wax on, wax off is now pick up coat, hang up coat and the action
labours toward the tournament fight at the end which disappointingly
relies on CGI and wire stunts unlike the early training sequences and
conflict fights that are sparky and original - one of the only elements
of this film that is. Knowing the plot, you'd think the script would
rattle through at a 90 minute pace but instead labours to 2 hours where
the first plot point - arrival in China - comes little more than 8
minutes in, but we wait 40 minutes before Chan agrees to train his
protégé and beyond an hour before the classic training montage begins,
demanded by a genre which just doesn't appear to allow snake training
temples and Chinese festivals in some of the movies dullest moments. 

I can't see kids enjoying this now in a world where it would be Tekken
over training any day and it's just not kitsch or fun enough for their
parents wanting a throwback experience with the kids. The pluses are
definitely Chan and some elements of the fight production; far
outweighed by a non-existent soundtrack, average acting, drawn out and
unnecessary plotting plus dialogue which barely works said in English
and translates even worse when presented on screen in subtitles - an
interesting consideration and challenge for screenwriters and
filmmakers everywhere - but one in which Murphey fails.

Of course this isn't all his problem but I wouldn't expect a sequel to
be optioned anytime soon and we can be thankful of that.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of the original Karate Kid, this remake is just
disappointing. Firstly, there isn't any karate in this movie which
makes the title look silly. Secondly, while I'm also a big fan of
Jackie Chan, he only had 1 fight scene with a bunch of kids and that
lacked his usual comedic and well choreographed fight sequences. Its
either his age has finally caught up with him or the kids just didn't
have enough training.

The next problem with the movie is Jaden Smith was just not suitable
for this role. Although he showed promise as an actor with a bright
future, He lacked the strength and the skills to be the Karate Kid. I
know Ralph Macchio wasn't exactly muscular either, but at least he was
not as tiny and fragile looking as Jaden.

Lastly, I could not quite see the chemistry between Jackie and Jaden
that everyone was raving about, throughout the first half of the film
it just looked like a dirty old man plotting something sinister on that
innocent little new kid in a foreign country.
