
I realize that today's major cinema generally lacks creativity and
innovation and indie is the way to go, but I can't resist a cheap
thriller. Once in a great while I will be impressed by a film or at
least not be furious I spent ten bucks on it. Unfortunately with "The
Roommate" I felt like I'd wasted both my money and my time. The story
is unoriginal, but even with recycled plots writers can tell them from
new angles. This movie was told from the completely wrong angle. The
main character goes to college and basically finds out her roommate is
crazy and obsessed with her. The huge mistake? The story should've been
about the 'crazy' girl and not about the girl who finds out the 'crazy'
girl is obsessed with her etc. I'm frankly also insulted at how they
depict mental illness in this movie, putting across the message that if
a person has emotional problems/mental issues etc they're obviously
dangerous. First of all her problems throughout the movie appear to be
pretty severe, so why is she not under regular psychological care? At a
visit to the the crazy girl's house, her parents seem almost afraid of
her and make a comment about her medication. Various scenes in the
girl's hometown make it clear that something serious has happened with
this girl in the past. The script wants the viewer to hate this
character and find her dangerous and sympathize with the roommate, but
I find myself sympathizing with the crazy girl and curious about her
backstory and what's really going on with her. The movie fails at
getting me to see the girl as the antagonist and root against her,
instead I pitied her and was concerned about her. I didn't really care
about the main character at all. In short, Hollywood recycles plots all
the time, and that's fine but they could at least pick a new angle to
tell the story through that would captivate the viewer. The Roommate,
is a huge fail and if I were you I'd skip this one in the box office.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie expecting a good thriller, but man was I
wrong. The opening comes right out of the blue. Its too fast paced.
There is barely any storyline structure or memorable performances. NOT
scary. NOT suspenseful. Pathetic and infested with forgettable acting.
I can't even recommend this movie for a one night rental. The
atmosphere is lifeless. The ending is so last minute thinking. The
climax????!!? The climax had no ability to impress me. I regret ever
spending my money on this disaster piece. There is not one unique thing
this movie has to offer. I'll be surprised if anybody mentions this
film's name in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
The Roommate is one of those films, that when you first the trailer,
you think to yourself, "This is gonna suck". But only when you actually
see the film do you realize that you were only partly wrong. The
Roommate's premise is simple enough. A young pretty girl is being
stalked and obsessed with by her roommate. The film revolves around
Sarah (Minka Kelly) who is on her own, going to college and learning
new things. Little does she know that she has a stalker roommate,
Rebecca (Leighton Meester). As soon as Rebecca and Sarah become closer
to each other, strange events begin to occur. Each of Sarah's close
friends or allies becomes hurt, or sometimes even killed. I wonder who
could've done this? 

The good thing about The Roommate is that it is a pretty decent
thriller. Even though it doesn't even come close to meeting the
standards of a horror movie, it still delivers some chills and even
some cheap jump scares. The acting is good as well. With the exception
of Minka Kelly. Cam Gigandet delivers a solid sometimes annoying
performance as Sarah's new beau. Even though he is not in the film for
long, he lifts our spirits when things are going rough, which is pretty
much every 10 minutes. But the real scene stealer here is Leighton
Meester as the crazed roommate. Meester delivers a believable potent
performance, psychotic one moment and sweet the next. 

The bad things about the film are that in the very beginning it moves
far too fast. Jumping from one thing to the next in the blink of an
eye. Also, the writing really could've used a makeover. I mean, the
dialogue in this film is ridiculous. All in all, the film is at times
stupid and the deaths aren't very well executed, if executed at all.
But the acting and characters keep you around for the show. Overall,
The Roommate is a film I would recommend, but only to open-minded movie
watchers.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow this movie is bad. The writing is terrible and the acting is not
much better than terrible. If you took any kid in school sat them down
and told them to write a scary horror movie that is set on a
university/college campus this is pretty much what they would come up
with exactly. It is very predictable and you can see the attacks coming
a mile away. Basically without ruining any of it I can say this is a
girl who is obviously stuck with a roommate in college who she does not
know but the chick turns out to be completely insane and tries to take
over and keeps attacking and scaring her to death, almost literally to
death. The movie is so stupid you will laugh at different places but it
is not meant to be at all funny so this is just a terrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The college student Sara Matthews (Minka Kelly) travels from Des
Moines, Iowa, to Los Angeles to study fashion design. She befriends
Tracy Morgan (Aly Michalka) that invites her to a party, where she
meets Stephen (Cam Gigandet) and dates him. When Sara returns to her
room, she meets her roommate Rebecca Evans (Leighton Meester) and they
become friends. Rebecca is a wealthy teenager that becomes obsessed
with Sara and soon Tracy notes that something is wrong with Rebecca.
But Rebecca threatens Tracy that moves to another house. Rebecca gets
rid of anyone that stays between Sara and her, but when Sara finally
observes her behavior, she is also threatened by the schizophrenic
roommate. 

"The Roommate" is an unoriginal thriller of obsession with a storyline
that is a rip-off "Single White Female". This teen version has two sexy
lead actresses, Minka Kelly and Leighton Meester, and may entertain
viewers that are not choosy. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "Colega de Quarto" ("Roommate")
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie a whole lot better when it was called "Single White
Female" starring Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh -- however I
understand where the creators of this movie wanted to make a
slightly-less intense version for the kiddies out there.

This movie is humiliatingly bad, though. Sara Matthews (Kelly) gets to
college, sets up her stuff and then one of her friends, Tracy
(Michalka) steals her away to go to a party. Once there, she runs into
Stephen (Gigandet) and instantly starts to fall for him. The next
morning, Sara meets her new roommate, Rebecca (Meester).

The fixation starts innocently enough and of course, Sara is oblivious
to all of it because that's what these kind of movies need: incredibly
stupid characters. This movie was actually a hit in the theaters when
it came out (yeah, I know $40 million isn't much but it only had a
budget of $16 million) and for the life of me, I can't figure out why.
I suppose most of the audience was teenagers (12-16) because a lot of
the older kids would have laughed at just how silly the 'climax' of
this movie came about. Not to mention that everything was given away by
the trailer -- the movie's biggest secret actually appeared in the
movie's trailer -- a line spoken by Rebecca's mom (Fisher) and an
ending that's so anti-climactic and just plain ridiculous you will
actually cringe and maybe even yell at your TV.

Maybe I'm missing the point, maybe this movie is supposed to scare our
kids and teach them about strangers? That's an extreme reach, I know...
but I'm lost here as to how this movie even got past the design stage.
And don't blame the actors, in the end I know it's all about exposure
and a paycheck for them -- hell, I'd act in the lowest budget movie
ever just to get my name out there and they did a good job with what
they had to work with. Nope, this one lies strictly on the screenwriter
(a first timer, Sonny Mallhi). He's done some executive producing
(whatever that is) on more intense thrillers (The Strangers, Shutter),
so my guess is that he was only in it for a paycheck and fame, as well.
I guess the last laugh is at our expense. See more reviews at
www.soveryterry.com Final Grade: D-
<|_=00=_|>
It's nice when you're presented with a thriller that the majority of
people can relate to. Moving off to college, nervous with jitters, and
not knowing who your first college roommate might be. You ask yourself
questions like, "Will my roommate be clean and neat? Will we get along?
Will they respect my property? " It's a role of the dice that doesn't
seem too disappointing for most. What most can't relate to is the
question "Is my new roommate a demented psychopath who wants to steal
my identity?" Then finding out it's true. That is the case in this
rainbow version of the 1992 classic film 'Single White Female.' The
film starts with our main character Sarah Matthews (Minka Kelly) moving
into her dorm. Sarah is starting to build relationships with other
housemates, but they seem paper-thin. Still in the opening credits the
acting starts becoming awkward from introductions that are in no way
realistic. If you're shopping at Wal-Mart and someone drives they're
shopping cart into yours, I don't think everyone will smile then
introduce him or herself happily.

After a while we learn Sarah is a design major. Unlike her other
classmates she has style something that all the money in the world
can't buy according to her Design 101 instructor. Moving along, Sarah
goes to a frat party with some of her new friends to get a feel of life
away from home without a curfew. She meets a guy whose pick up lines in
the real world would come off as lame and stalker like, but for some
reason it's acceptable here. After the party, some of the guests are
too intoxicated to make it home alone, so they're escorted back to
their dorms. This is where we meet the ROOMMATE Rebecca (Leighton
Meester.) Rebecca comes across innocent at first with no real reason
for you to think otherwise. While the plot centers on Rebecca being
obsessed with Sarah wanting to steal her identity, art is one thing
they genuinely have in common. So Rebecca can draw art very well and
that's all we get to know about her character other than she lives 20
minutes away and her parents are filthy rich and they don't get along.
While Sarah and Rebecca are getting acquainted as roommates, Sarah
begins to display her particular taste in life and Rebecca is taking
mental notes. It feels like a friendship is starting to build until
little by little Rebecca starts to mimic Sarah's behavior from
illustrations of Sarah's favorite movie to copying her hair color.
After a while, like any normal person, Sarah rations her time away with
other friends from the college. This is where the s*^# starts to hit
the fan. Rebecca of course doesn't like this and starts to become
envious of everyone that is taking the time of her so called BFF. Like
I said the psychotic behavior is starting to erupt but this is also the
main problem of the film.

Rebecca is becoming jealous so she starts doing every SHE can think of
to gain Sarah's attention again for her own psychotic gain. They range
from body mutilation, harassing Rebecca's friends, and harming animals
in a way that can't be imagined. I can only count a number of incidents
towards Rebecca's insanity and in doing so her actions are left
unresolved. There's really no aftermath to any of her behavior except
one occasion where she manipulates Sarah's design instructor, but that
was completely justified. It does take away from the point of the film.
I wanted to be thrilled and turn in my seat, but I hardly moved. So
much was left unanswered regarding Rebecca's behavior and back-story
that instead of being scary the film turned into a comedy. When
individuals lash out it's more entertaining to know where they came
from and what exactly sent them over the edge. Jason was drowning while
campers had sex, Freddy was burned alive for being a pedophile, and
"The Count of Monte Cristo" was imprisoned for 13 years for crimes he
did not commit. Those were justified. Why is Rebecca so crazy? It's not
because her parents didn't love her. We're just told she's bipolar and
takes medication. That by the way was brought up so remedial as if it
was just saying, "make sure you guys buckle up, don't want a ticket."
Scene by scene there are attempts to make Rebecca seem more sinister.
Instead, I'm screaming, "GIVE ME MORE!" and that request is clearly
ignored.

The climax came out of nowhere and it's build up jumped around like a
king on a checkered board. Even so, the acting and reactions of someone
trying to harm another person flew out of the window making me
rationally clock out of the film. The roommate is barely entertaining
and may make you say, "WOW" once or twice. The whole time I couldn't
think of anything more than, "If this or this happened, it would've
been much more entertaining." It's something that we have all seen
before but a blessing none of us have to go through. There's a bad
taste left in my mouth knowing how entertaining this film could have
been if it didn't have the tight collar of a PG-13 rating. Not at all a
must see in the least bit. There are plenty of films that surpassed
this one in a foot race of the same genre leaving this one in last
place. With all that being said, IT'S STILL JUST MY OPINION!!! 5/10 -
Brandon Keith Avery
<|_=00=_|>
Lacking in suspense, answers, and any enjoyment from its "horror" label
it's boasting, The Roommate is easily one of the worst thrillers in
recent memory. It provides no backstory or any chemistry from the cast,
and manages to drag on for ninety-one minutes. When a movie makes you
think a ninety-one minute run time is insufferable, wow is it bad.

The Roommate's biggest problem is that it is one big tease. It is
stamped with a PG-13 rating, when it could've passed for a PG in 1982.
There is a shower scene that is incredibly drawn out, and desperately
wants to show below the waist and higher than the stomach but can't. It
doesn't want to be racy or good. The makeout scenes could very well win
the worst sex award as well.

The plot is a girl named Sara (Kelly) is starting College and gets a
new dorm. Simple enough. She seems normal; tattoo of her deceased
sister on her breast (wouldn't be surprised if when she was having sex
with someone they screamed out "Emily" by accident), wants to learn,
make new friends, simple. Much to her surprise, she returns home from
the club to find she has a new roommate named Rebecca (Meester) an
uneasy adolescent who becomes increasingly fascinated with her
roommate. She begins to go through her things and be very
overprotective about her. Then Sara discovers why she is the way she
is.

My one question to the people behind this - why don't we get backstory
on Rebecca? Why doesn't the film focus more on her? She is easily the
more interesting one, and when we do find out the secret, we assume
more backstory will brew. Negatory. None. We are just as clueless as we
were. The minor clue towards the end doesn't help matters, and only
turns them into a convoluted barrage of questions.

There is an animal murder, and like in Drag Me To Hell, it's
horrifying. Why do horror movies these days portray an animal in danger
or helplessness? Why do even the crazy harm animals? Let alone why is
it incorporated in the film? She could've just let the animal loose and
things would still play out the same. Nope. We have to witness another
dreadful and upsetting animal murder for no apparent reason.

No character in this movie is likable either because no one is
developed to that point. The main character's parents aren't even
mentioned, or called once in the film. But her dead sister and her ex
boyfriend get mentions. Plus I can tell right now Minka Kelly, a
beautiful woman, is sporting too much of a Jessica Alba/Megan Fox look.
Her hair looks darkened and her lipstick looks like a Fox tribute. Her
Alba-like face is natural, obviously. I'm pretty sure she is aware of
it too.

The Roommate is exactly what is wrong with modern day horror movies.
There is no contrived suspense or anything to make this even the
slightest bit likable. Even Billy Zane who was good in The Final
Destination can't make this miserable mess any better. If had an R
rating it may have been a little bit more tolerable, but I'm doubtful
on that. It is Fatal Attraction mixed with Single White Female, and it
creates a disastrous and lame film.

Starring: Leighton Meester, Minka Kelly, Cam Gigandet, Billy Zane, and
Alyson Michalka. Directed by: Christian E. Christiansen.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to go see The Roommate....I was hoping it wasn't a typical,
predictable movie. The acting was good...I think it was believable for
the most and the actors a up and coming so it was nice to see a new set
of faces. As for a new plot,I don't think so. It a pretty predictable
movie, there is nothing new or fantastic about the movie. However its
good for what it is which is a teen-thriller flick. There is definitely
more that could have been done and it could have been a little more
thrilling...to be honest it wasn't that scary! Its not really a
horror....it barely classifies as a Thriller. If you want to go see a
teen-thriller/psycho movie, this is a good choice however if youare in
the mood for a possible Oscar movie or something to blow you
away....this is definitely not for you!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all watching this movie made me feel a little old because I
didn't know a single actor in it! It also made me think back to my
college days and how irresponsible some college kids are. Education is
a privilege and an honor and they just want to drink and party. Two
young actresses named Minka Kelly and Leighton Meester do a fine job as
a real "odd couple" sort of roommates. Kelly is convincing as Sara the
"nice" girl. The only problem that I have with her character, no nice
way to say this, she is as dense as they come. It should have been
obvious to her that Rebecca was cuckoo for coco puffs and she doesn't
wake up and realize it until its almost too late. Meester is awesome as
Rebecca. She manages the difficult task of making her character
frightening but also sympathetic in a way. You realize that shes insane
but shes also sad and very lonely. Its so pathetic how she keeps
telling Sara "I just want to be your friend". Studies have shown that
many female psychopaths often hide their true nature behind a facade of
kindness and warmth and Meester certainly does that well. I noticed
that the one beef people have with this film is that its a rip off of
1992s Single White Female. I agree and I noticed that they even rip off
the shower scene in Psycho as well. This movie is entertaining just not
very original. I think the best part is the ending, its very hold onto
your seat and they pull out all the stops. I also wanted to compliment
the director for keeping the blood and gore to a minimum. That makes a
better film. In conclusion, I wanted to say that the part where Rebecca
kills Cuddles in the oven really made me sad. I saw where she was
getting jealous of the cat and I knew Cuddles had used up all of his
nine lives!
