
After seeing this movie, and then seeing the other reviews for it
online, I felt the need to write my opinion in order to share why some
did not like it and why I feel it could have been far better under
different direction.

First of all, I generally like Marvel's films. They manage to put out
new stories virtually every year and incorporate new characters into
their ensemble. They've also mastered the art of masking each film as
original and fresh, and for the most part it's just a fun time at the
cinema. But the problem is that eventually, while you will always be
able to pick new heroes from the massive wealth Marvel has created
through comics, the formula, the acting, the uninspired scripts and
classic gimmicks will become stagnant and even begin to bore the
audience. 

I wanted to like Doctor Strange, and I, too, was convinced by the
trailers that it would be captivating and interesting and thought-
provoking. But twenty minutes into the movie and I could already tell
how this was probably going to go.

The acting was to be expected given the cast they chose, but nothing
stood out. Benedict Cumberbatch played a convincing Doctor Strange, but
his character was completely static - I felt no indication that he had
changed in the slightest by the end of the film (which is what the
filmmakers were lazily trying to portray), and I couldn't even figure
out why he suddenly wanted to fight the enemy in the first place. The
rest of the characters were poorly fleshed out, and I found myself
caring little for any of them, a phenomenon that did not occur when I
watched "Iron Man" or "Guardians of the Galaxy". The jokes and
wise-cracks felt especially childish this time around, and even out of
place in the face of sincerely substantial ideas such as alternate
dimensions and the fabric of time and space. Additionally, the pace
simply felt rushed and awkward, and like I said before, I just couldn't
find myself caring for any of the one- dimensional, superficial
characters.

The plot was formulaic, which is typical and expected of Marvel; hero
suddenly has powers, hero is confronted by conflict larger than
himself, hero acts selflessly to save the day and the girl, hero
returns and the film ends with some good old fashioned comic relief
(Wang laughing, in this case). Normally I could enjoy this, but
combined with the tepid acting, shallow characters and strange pacing,
the whole plot and film just felt... tired. Even with the great visuals
(which were truly impressive and to the benefit of the movie), I simply
didn't enjoy it. I wanted more, a more interesting script that had at
least a couple memorable or provocative lines rather than none, a
stronger character arc, a better and more menacing villain (spoilers
aside, the final confrontation was COMPLETELY underwhelming and mildly
ridiculous), and, all-in-all, a more enticing movie. 

I really think "Doctor Strange" could have been a lot better of a film,
but I feel like the filmmakers were just flat-out lazy this time
around. While I do recognize the cash-cow that is Marvel, I just hope
this isn't the beginning of the end for their good movies, movies with
at least a little bit of substance. They still plan to cram over a
dozen heroes into Infinity War, and if as little heart and care is put
into it as was put into this one, it could be a very bad, shallow,
exhausted film.

3.5/10 for great visuals and a relatively coherent plot.
<|_=00=_|>
Without giving away too much, Benedict Cumberbatch just kills it. He is
one class actor. Cumberbatch rocks as Strange and pulls it off with
ease. The impressions his portrayal gives us is that he was born to
play the role of the ex-neurosurgeon turned Sorcerer Supreme. Such is
the talent of the lead cast, that it represents just how good the movie
was overall. Every normal movie watcher will love the action, humour,
adventure and fantasy throughout the film.

A solid new character introduced to the Marvel Cinematic Universe with
loads of potential. Cumberbatch solidifies and anchors his role in the
MCU as Stephen Strange in a similar fashion to RDJ doing so with Tony
Stark.

A must watch! Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to be among the press-junket last Wednesday to
witness this movie! I usually rate movies by different aspects, but
i'll also answer some questions my friends had about this film which I
also had myself!

Acting (10/10): This cast is amazing! They embody their characters
instead of trying to act like the character. Benedict as Dr. Strange
was a portrayal right out of the comics! Tilda as the ancient one
killed it!

Action (10/10): Wow! I could argue the action in this movie being on
par with the scenes in civil war. It was so incredible watching this
scenes with million pieces moving yet focus sing on the main
characters. Wide angles, long shots and great choreography. what else
do you want?

Story(8/10) : This movie had a solid story and you believed what, how
and why things were going on! Villain was good and actually a memorable
one for once(stab, you're welcome dc fans). It was not flawless though.
The pace kind of slows down before the final act which was unnecessary!

Cinematography/VFX 10/10: The images in this film blew my mind! There
is a scene in the beginning where the ancient one shows Dr strange "the
magic" and it is great! Some serious mind-bending stuff combined with
great visuals to let it manifest itself to the audience. Most artistic
movie yet of marvel.

Overall, i'd give this movie an 8.5. Though this isn't THE best marvel
movie, it is truly one of best out there. After the disappointing Jason
borne, jack reach er etc. we finally have a movie that lives up to the
hype! GO Watch this movie in Max 3d if possible, because it is worth it
for once!

Some questions that my friends asked:

"Is this better than civil war?" - Well visual-wise on par, but
story-wise civil war is better for many reasons including the fact that
civil war had a lot of background information to work with. This was
more of a standardized origin film. 

"Is there a post-credit scene?" - Ah yes sir! Apparently there are two,
but we got to see only 1. 

"Is this the most mind-boggling thing you've ever seen on screen?" -
Ehm yes and no. Yes, because the effects were amazing and things I've
never seen before. No, nothing was so mind-blowing that it made me
think different of the world or something.
<|_=00=_|>
I had fun seeing this movie. It's an overall good popcorn flick. But if
you are, as i'am, a little demanding about movies, you'll feel in the
end that they gave a great amount of attention to the digital/special
effects aspect of the movie and very little to the screenplay. In the
end, if you're one of those weirdos who stay and watch the credits out
of respect for the crew who made the movie possible, you'll notice that
digital, cgi and special effects have huge teams of dozens of computer
geeks who master an art that fills 90% of today's action movies. That's
saying a whole lot of the movies industry these days.

The movie has a relaxed tone to it, almost like Green Lantern. The
protagonist is egocentric and stubborn. His confidence is often
mistaken for arrogance. The jokes are of bad taste. The dialogues are
light and deprived of any seriousness. Even in the event of an eminent
apocalypse, Dr. Strange manages to throw his puns and bad jokes. The
multiverse of presented almost as a gratuitous event, a mundane truth
accessible to anyone of travels to Kathmandu. There's no secret, no
effort to achieve it. You only need to knock at their door, and the
Ancient One will teach you right away the secrets of the astral plane.
There's no sense of urgency, like for instance the urgency that drives
Neo to find the truth about the Matrix and his decision to swallow the
red pill. 

This plot is old and recycled. It takes the Hero's Journey myth and put
it to practice. And we've seen it a thousand before: Talented yet self
centered person is set to trial and loses his talent/strength. Seeking
redemption, finds a tutor. The tutor teaches humility and new found
power. An enemy emerges. Tutor dies in fight. Apprentice seeks revenge,
wins battle, takes the tutor's position. More or less, this formula is
old and we all know it.This movie is academic in this sense. But it
somehow works. It's light mood dialogues and absence of seriousness
makes it digestible. 

Well... at least until the last battle. Dormammu (one of my favorite
marvel villains) is so poorly portrayed. Worst only Galactus in
Fantastic Four Rise of the Silver Surfer. And the battle, the solution
found by Dr.Strange to defeat Dormammu makes absolutely no sense. The
Eye of Agamoto controls time in a dimension where time exists, but the
the Dark Dimension of Dormammu there's no such thing as Time. So, how
could the Eye even work in a dimension where the concept of time does
not exist. How did even Dormammu succumbed to a concept to which he was
not captive of of? Did the Eye of Agamoto invented time in the Dark
Dimension? Of course not. It's just a bad plot decision. It's simply
lazy writing.

The way they confuse so many time the realm of metaphysics with hard
science like quantum mechanics, is astonishing. Like they were trying
to mask the comic book nature of Dr. Strange (a sorcerer who is able to
travel between dimensions with his magical powers) with quantum physics
Wikipedia vocabulary. The confusing and unnecessary discussion between
Strange and the Ancient One about the nature of the Multiverse, shows
an attempt to minimize the "magic" of movie and make it sound more ...
"scientific". Dr. Strange, in the book, is a magical entity. His powers
are far beyond known science as he can do things modern science finds
impossible. So the attempt to rationalize such character is in my
opinion a big mistake. 

Overall, is an entertaining movie, with cool special effects, pleasant
acting and light atmosphere. Good Saturday evening flick. Don't expect
lots of brains in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Another MCU movie that the bandwagon is giving stellar reviews to even
though it sucks.

The movie follows the same basic formula as all of the other MCU
movies. There's quips, there's jokes, there's a McGuffin, there's a
1-dimensional villain.

Movie's sole purpose is another lead-up to the next Avengers. The
mystical artifact Strange uses turns out to be an Infinity Stone.
"Shocking". If I had a dollar for every time Marvel did something that
took me by surprise, I'd be flat broke, because you can see this stuff
coming from a mile away.

I swear, I almost walked out when I heard the wifi password joke. Not
to mention the stupid cape being alive so they have more comedy in the
movie. Comedy? My mistake, I meant cringe.

Marvel Movies have a tendency to love to have the hero getting betrayed
by someone they thought an ally. Baron Mordo is a friend of Strange and
his group in the movie. He's a villain in the comics. Anyone knows what
is coming from a mile away. He doesn't go full bad guy in this one, but
expect him to be full on evil in the sequel.

Another thing nearly every single MCU movie does is the fake-out death.
A character will die and then in the next movie or even just in the
post-credit scene of the movie they died in they'll pop up alive and
well. Seriously, go back and look. Wong dies in this movie and Strange
just reverses time and brings him back. The only character I think has
stayed dead is Quicksilver. And there were rumors he was going to pop
up alive and well somehow in the New Avengers scene at the end of Age
of Ultron.

The warped city stuff isn't as revolutionary is people claim.
Considering Inception did it 6 years ago and that horrible Devil May
Cry reboot did something similar as well.

Movie is getting stellar reviews, which doesn't mean much. At this
point Marvel Studios could just release a 2 hour movie that is just the
main character sipping a glass of tea while sniffing a dog turd and it
would still get critical acclaim.

You know why it's so freaking hard to enjoy Marvel movies these days?
When everyone is on the bandwagon and everyone attacks you if you have
a different opinion, and when the movies are praised for being
"amazing" when in reality they're just actually "just okay" or only
"halfway decent", it makes them movies feel worse to me because when
they don't live up to what critics and the fanboys say it is. 

Like Civil War this year. Everyone called it a "Masterpiece." Then I
saw it and the whole movie only functioned because of the gaping plot
holes. But if you point out said plot holes you get vilified.

I think this movie might be the last MCU movie I bother seeing. They
all feel the same, follow the same formula, and the fanboys make going
to see them insufferable. Maybe Spider-man: Homecoming could be good,
but since they have Vulture, Shocker, and Tinkerer (3 1- dimensional
villains) as the villains of the film, it looks like the movie is
already setting up to be the same movie with different characters we've
seen about 15 times now. Just watch, I bet that the plot ends up being
Vulture trying to steal a priceless artifact and Spidey has to keep it
from him, and then in the post-credit scene it's revealed to be an
Infinity Stone so they can do another "Look, look, shared
universe,everything tied together" moment that are tired at this point.

Why did I give it a 1? I'd have given it a five, but the over-hyped
nonsense from critics and the Marvel fanboys just makes these movies
feel worse than they actually are to me. A mediocre movie ends up
feeling like complete trash when everyone is calling it one of the best
movies ever and then you see it and it's just "kind of sort of okay"
Especially when the only thing I thought was good in the movie was the
special effects. I also enjoyed the special effects in the Transformers
series, but as we all know, those movies suck, and no amount of great
special effects will save a crap movie.

Movie also shows the problems the MCU will be facing soon. Dr. Strange
is a D-list character at best. After they lose Iron Man, Cap, Hulk,
Widow, Thor, Nick Fury, and the other characters that the MCU was built
on, they'll only have Spider-man and a bunch of C and D-listers holding
their shared universe together.
<|_=00=_|>
In a year with 5 other comic book movies being released, i guess you
could say that making Doctor Strange seem different from the others
would be quite a feat for Marvel Studios to pull off. But, surprise
surprise... they do. Benedict Cumberbatch stars as the stubborn,
egotistical neurosurgeon whose personal tragedy leads him to join a
legion of sorcerers and learn the complexities of the mystic arts.
Although fans of the Sherlock series will say otherwise, this is the
character that the guy was born to portray. He perfectly plays a man
who develops from being overly cocky to being smart with his skills and
knowledge. In terms of acting, positive things can be said about Tilda
Swinton and Chiwetel Ejiofor, they ooze their individual personas like
they aren't even playing a role. Rachel McAdams and Benedict Wong are
also great but like plenty of Marvel's smaller characters, they just
don't get that much screen time.

The problem with screen time also affects Mads Mikkelson's villain
character as well. He isn't underdeveloped though, he just isn't in
many scenes. The screen time problem with characters is something that
could be forgiven though. The movie has a run time of 130 minutes and
uses it very well. There is no filler whatsoever. Every scenes has a
point. Whether its developing a character, advancing the plot or just
making you laugh, director Scott Derickson has filled scenes with
enough of every variable to get any viewer hooked. The movie even has
some emotional moments too. A scene with Swinton and Cumberbatch having
a quiet conversation while lightning crackles in a sky of drifting snow
is one of the best shot scenes of this year... i'm not joking.

Two of Marvel's hallmarks, action and humour get a new lease of life in
this movie. The insane, trippy dimension scenes are a love letter to
Steve Ditko's iconic comic panels. Buildings twist out of shape, panes
of glass ripple and entire street blocks fold in on themselves,
creating a crazy CGI playground for characters to square of in. ILM and
Marvel wonderfully visualise everything that make this character's lore
unique. Relics, spells and locations all look amazing. If I was to
gripe about visuals, i would mention the green screen. It is a bit hazy
in some areas.

All in all, Marvel has done well with Doctor Strange. Origin stories
can be clichéd and boring, but the trick is to do something different.
Marvel have a formula that they use in not only their origin stories
but all of their solo movies. However, it isn't specific and despite
what people might say, that loose formula allows for some creativity.
Guardians of the Galaxy and the Captain America sequels are proof of
that. Roll on more Doctor Strange!

P.S: There are two credits scenes. Both teasing future movies, one of
them being a not yet confirmed Doctor Strange sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Doctor Strange was a painful movie to watch. 

Almost forcing myself to sit through the end, I fought the urge to
leave the cinema half way and go home. Now, just to put it out there,
this may just apply to me because people have different values they
look for in a movie, and I just happen to value story, above
everything. Because that's what movies are, visual stories.

Visual effects alone have a limit to which they can entrance the
audience. The CG was stunningly beautiful in Dr. Strange, with
buildings folding, twisting, and morphing into unimaginable ways. The
first time it occurred ( the first ten minutes of the movie) I was
struck with awe. But it got old, really fast. Why? Because they lacked
logic. I don't mean logic as in, 'oh that can't happen in real life?'
but as in 'if he elongated the hallways so that Dr. Strange can't run
away before, so why doesn't he do that now, instead of throwing random
things at him that he can obviously avoid?" Yes, I'm talking about the
inconsistency of the characters' abilities to manipulate space just for
the sake of 'plot.' Oh no, the villain is going to become very weak all
of a sudden just so that Dr. Strange can get away, just because he's
the main character! Not to mention that although, the ancient one got
her powers from Dormamu, she can't beat Kaecilius at the beginning of
the movie.

Well, this severely weakened the credibility of the plot, but this
isn't the only reason why I would give the story a 1/10. One of the
first scenes of the movie (To be honest I can't remember if it was the
first scene or the second one, that's how memorable the movie is to me)
is of the ancient one trying to catch Kaecilius who steals a few pages
from her book and kills the guard. Of course, here I thought,
'obviously the whole movie is going to be about trying to stop the evil
guy that stole the page from using the pages to do something terrible
to the world, maybe even word annihilation.' and as immediately as that
thought occurred to me, I became terrified that I would have to sit
through 2 hours of a very very cliché plot. I tried to doubt myself, I
really did, and throughout the film, until the very end, I kept hoping
for the best, 'okay, there's going to be a plot twist. Any time now,
any time. Surely a movie can't be this cliché, right?' but it was just
that cliché. And when the movie ended, I was furious.

The amazing graphics and fantastic actors (I am a very big fan of
Benedict Cumberbatch, especially because I love the Sherlock series)
was absolutely undermined and practically thrown in the trash because
of the ridiculous, overdone story line. The movie basically ridiculed
the audience and their level of intelligence, by making us sit through
two hours worth of scenes so flashy and meaningless and hoping that
they would enjoy the special effects like some new born baby or an
extremely complex artist that only pursuits aesthetics for a living.
Not to mention that I had the biggest migraine ever after the whole
fiasco ended.

Avatar, was an amazing movie because it had everything; it had
originality/creativity, meaning, and steady natural development of
characters. The amazing CG effects that blew the world at the time it
came out was only able to shine because of everything else in the
movie. That's what makes a classic. In comparison, Dr. Strange was just
a bundle of mess with too rapid character development without any base,
(why does Dr. Strange suddenly decide to get involved in the magical
world? There were implied and LITTLE explicit reasons, but they were
definitely not explored in enough depth to convince the audience) and
the romance was so rapid and so cliché it almost seemed like there was
no point to it, except to show the audience how much Dr. Strange
matures, but again, how he matures is barely touched upon (apparently
if you just train a few months and fight with a villain you just mature
all of a sudden?) 

Maybe I shouldn't be tied to story so much when the movie is produced
by marvel, after all. But I sat through all the avengers movies just
fine, although they weren't exactly my cup of tea. This movie though,
it was just so bad I had to write a review.

I may be missing something huge in the movie here, and maybe that's why
I am so thoroughly disappointed and maybe even disgusted with the
movie. If that's indeed the case, please don't hesitate to point it out
and enlighten me on what exactly I missed that makes the movie so
great.

Thanks for reading.
<|_=00=_|>
Way back when I first heard that Doctor Strange was being brought to
the screen I was a bit worried. How could they translate the complexity
of character and his true coolness but stay away from the cheeseball
stuff? Dress a guy up like the books and remain true to the seriousness
of the character? Well, they managed to not only pull it off but
deliver one of the best hero origin films ever made.

The director knew that you had to establish and truly care about the
character. Making it grounded but still trippy really helps give it a
flavor unlike any other comic adaptation. The Harry Potter meets Iron
Man meets Ant-Man flavor was there yet it all feels unique. The MCU
magic is there literally. Everything established in the Captain America
films and both Avengers pays dividends in a way here. The universe has
been established wonderfully and this film does the best job to date
playing in that universe. Everything and every scene packs some sort of
punch and resonates with true style and heart. They really let the
action flow but also allow for key development of the overall story and
over concept. This also allows them to probe deeper into the
character's personalities. ALL the characters even the ones with
smaller roles get to shine. This heightens the tension, so often
missing from lesser comic-book movies, and adds real weight to the
action sequences which are thrilling and often mesmerizing. Add more
than a dash of thriller aspects and a few new characters that steal
every scene that they appear in.

I honestly can't think of one way to improve this film. The result is a
movie that's just flat out exceptional and that honestly delivers the
best visuals I've ever seen in a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the visual similarities to Inception, Doctor Strange (in 3D)
looks incredible. In places it's breathtaking. Without a doubt, this is
the closest to tripping you can experience in a cinema. However, all
this eye-candy fails to hide the fact that underneath it all is a
terrible, terrible, by-the-numbers film. It makes the same fatal error
as Finn fighting Kylo Ren in The Force Awakens. The villain is powerful
and experienced, but our hero, who is a beginner, manages to defeat
him. This is only one of dozens of 'groan out loud' moments. 

The script is poor and the 'jokes' are misjudged. If there's one sure
fire way of preventing your film from aging well, it's by inserting
jokes about Beyonce. 

I can understand why Mads Mikkelsen did this film, as I'm sure he was
well paid, but it's probably the worst film he's appeared in by a mile.

Lazy and formulaic. I give it 3/10 only because it looks so good.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! DOCTOR STRANGE is an incredible mindtrip. Its VFX alone makes
Christopher Nolan's 'Inception' look like some kind of beta test. And
this film is so much fun, it's hilarious, it's got some of the most
complex, most elaborate action sequences I've seen all year, and I
can't stop geekin' out about the cloak of levitation. This is Benedict
Cumberbatch making his grand entrance into the Marvel Cinematic
Universe.

Directed by Scott Derrickson who helped provide the script, DOCTOR
STRANGE is about a successful, talented, arrogant neurosurgeon, Doctor
Stephen Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch). Suddenly, a tragic car accident
leaves Strange's hands permanently damaged, which means he can no
longer perform surgery. After trying western medicine, he hears of a
man who was badly injured and then got miraculously healed, this leads
Strange to the secrets of a hidden world of alternate dimensions. Under
the teaching and guidance of the Ancient One (Tilda Swinton) Strange
unleashes metaphysical abilities and ultimately takes on the
responsibility of protecting earth from mystical threats.

Created by Marvel's legendary artist, Steve Ditko, the character Doctor
Strange is a very unique one because he's not a product of some kind of
technological armor, he's not a nordic god nor a space alien, and he
doesn't get his powers from super serum nor gamma rays, and so kudos to
Marvel Studios for taking a chance on this one of a kind character
because it makes for an unbelievably fantastic origin story on screen
that's just different from the rest of the bunch that Marvel has
introduced to us so far. And there's just something refreshing about
that.

What a great cast, they could not have picked a better lead star,
Benedict Cumberbatch knocks it out of the park. Whenever Strange gets a
bit cocky, you can see a little bit of Cumberbatch's Sherlock attitude
kicking in there. But Strange is more quick to sensibility whereas
Sherlock would still have to put them all through his reasoning
filters. And Cumberbatch's sense of humor is absolutely sharp. There's
a ton of funny moments in this film but they never take away from the
problem at hand or what Strange has to tackle at that very moment.

I'm Asian but I'm not bothered by Tilda Swinton playing the Ancient
One, I understand this is supposedly the film's biggest controversy but
the fact of the matter is that once you've seen DOCTOR STRANGE, you'll
understand why Tilda is perfect in this role. The woman is an
impeccable actress and she exudes the specific wisdom needed for this
because in many ways, when you deal with a monastery-like setting where
people learn martial art and philosophies about self- control, the
expectation is that the master would preach parables, analogies, or
metaphors in bestowing that wisdom and Tilda does it with ease like
David Carradine's Kwai Chang Caine from the old "Kung Fu" series.

Mads Mikkelsen's Kaecilius, I gotta say, is not my favorite villain in
MCU, I think Mikkelsen does a fine job but the character just doesn't
land for me. But I gotta give Scott Derrickson and his co-writers much
credit for introducing as many elements as they could from Doctor
Strange comic books including Dormammu, and so those who watch the film
and may be confused by the jargons, like the Eye of Agamotto, can go to
the comic books and discover why it is important to include those in a
Doctor Strange movie along with the manipulation of space, energy and
time which is also another big deal. And that leads me to what I think
is the film's most amazing appeal,.. seeing buildings bend over on
itself, characters teleporting, and the insane things that the cloak of
levitation can do because it carries its own consciousness. It really
doesn't get more of a movie magic than DOCTOR STRANGE.

-- Rama's Screen --
