
That the movie succeeds is a credit to Hunnam, who comes of age both
literally and figuratively in this movie with a performance of great
humility, charm, and grit. A far cry from his breakout role as a
motorcycle gang leader, and an even further cry from his awkward
performance in Guy Ritchie's unique (and hopefully
never-to-be-repeated) view of young King Arthur as a slum thug.

Props to audiences worldwide who are connecting with a 2 hour and 20
minute opus that is as far from the new Transformers attempt as the
earth is from the moon. Shows that quality film-making will always find
an audience.

Would have been nice if the script were historically accurate but
perhaps that is asking too much. 

Ironically, because of the internet, the amount of solid new
archaeological evidence being released each 24 hours in today's world
would be the equivalent of ten years of time in Fawcett's era. In
particular, I am referring to the material of late which suggests lost
civilizations submerged in both the Atlantic and the Pacific over
12,000 years ago (see Graham Hancock's lectures for more, most free on
Youtube) would explain how Brazil, centered between the two, could
indeed have hosted a "lost city" which, thousands of years ago,
entertained guests from both realms.

Finally -- for hard-core history buffs only -- the written diagrams
preserved even today in the Archives of Rio de Janeiro ("Folio #512")
which constitute the last known "communication" from the ACTUAL final,
ill-fated, Fawcett expedition were discredited because "experts" of the
day claimed they contained elements of different language roots, not
one root, and hence "must" be fake. However, if indeed the area was a
centerpoint between two now-lost civilizations originating in two
different oceans, the multiple language roots would be expected and
natural, and not an indication of fraud.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a really good example of how a terrible script can completely
destroy a movie. There are too many things which make no sense to list,
but the key issues are:

For a film that seems so keen to virtue-signal about white ignorance
and racism, it does nothing to explain to us Fawcett's theories about
the people of Z. Who were they? How did their civilisation operate? Why
did they disappear? Surely these explorers would have built up far more
of a picture from the surrounding tribes, artefacts, and previous
finds. There is a tiny smattering of these things, but in 2h21ms
nowhere near enough to build up a mythology. Therefore it's difficult
to see why this obsesses Fawcett. You literally get more detail from
the quests in the Indiana Jones movies.

Instead it focuses relentlessly on the most tedious and dangerous
aspects of the trips, their suffering, or switches back to London with
almost every old man of course a stiff- upper-lip racist and sexist
cliché. Imagine a more insidious General Melchett from Blackadder Goes
Forth and you won't be far off.

There is an extremely cringey attempt to insert a modern feminist
perspective. At one stage, Nina wants to go on the expedition. Her
reasoning? She found an important document relating to it. This
apparently makes her equal to Fawcett's many years of soldiering and
survival skills. It's clumsy and anachronistic. The trip could very
well kill them both and so would leave their children orphaned. Surely
a more logical argument would be whether he has to go at all. He is,
after all, a father, and has responsibilities at home.

The First World War section adds absolutely nothing and captures none
of the horror of the battlefield. It's all just tally-ho chaps, almost
Hallmark channel-like. Just awful.

Sienna Miller, Robert Pattinson and especially Charlie Hunnam wring
what they can from such a sparsely-written script and should be
commended for that, which is why this isn't a 1.

Don't be fooled by the title - it's not about a lost city or even a
lost man. It's a lazy and pretentious destruction of what could have
been a thrilling find.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first review I have ever contributed to IMDb which I use on
a regular basis to inform my viewing choices but I feel compelled to
write it as the high ratings are so unjustified I feel I have a duty to
share my experience and balance the 7.4 (!!!!) score. I went into this
with high expectations... every ingredient was present to potentially
make this my new favourite movie, unfortunately the script and
narrative (if they originally  had one at all) failed to deliver.

My main problem was the narrative. The story takes place over a few
decades and follows the efforts of Fawcett to discover the "Lost City
of Z". He embarks on 3 "perilous" expeditions going up the Amazon but
no sense of danger or suffering is at any point conveyed by the
narrative.

 The 3 trips are each expedited under 20 minutes of screen time. We
have absolutely no idea of the time involved (apparently the
expeditions lasted a few years each) nor any feeling towards the
hardships the crew faces. To make matters worse, new crew members keep
appearing out of nowhere and at some point even a horse!! which was
nowhere to be seen on the raft in previous scenes. If this was not
enough.... the raft keeps going downstream when they are supposed to go
UPSTREAM, towards the source of the river.... oh well, I could have
lived with these inconsistencies if I had a character to root for.
Unfortunately we never feel any sympathy towards any of the
protagonists. The character development is non existent and not helped
by the fact the acting is very stiff at the best of time and downright
awful for most of the movie. I didn't find Charlie Hunnam convincing as
a Hell's Angel in SOA but he is seriously laughable as an English Army
officer. This absence of feeling and empathy is also to be experienced
towards the wife and children he leaves behind, every time he embarks
on one of those trips. We simply do not care for them.

I obviously did not go into it expecting a new Fitzcarraldo or
Apocalypse Now but for a movie which should have dealt with a man's
obsessive doomed quest for a Lost City, the jungle and/or the river
should have been part and parcel of the movie, a character in itself,
an omnipresent entity. No such thing. The whole movie could have been
shot in a winter garden for all I saw... You never have the feeling you
are in the mud with the protagonists. The only feeling you experience
is one of utter detachment and an urge for the movie to finish as soon
as possible. 

Extremely disappointed. Do not believe the hype!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sad to say that I was disappointed by this film in almost every
aspect. It seems to me that the biggest problem it has is the pacing.
For a two and a half hour long film, pacing is important to keep the
viewers engaged and this movie just gets it completely wrong. It feels
like three movies clumsily stuffed into one, and as if that wasn't
enough, it adds a bunch of utterly irrelevant scenes which could have
easily been cut out of the movie entirely. I, for one, was expecting to
see at least some beautiful cinematography, but the movie fails to
deliver even in the aesthetic aspect. I was also expecting to see a lot
more of the actual journey to the Amazon, but instead we got scene
after boring scene in England, where nothing of importance really
happens. After about an hour and a half I was left wondering how so
many critics found this movie watchable, desperately trying not to fall
asleep. To make matters even worse, Charlie Hunnam delivers an awful
performance and makes for an overall uninteresting lead. Surprisingly,
the only performance worth watching in this film was, out of all
people, Robert Pattinson. I'm certainly glad he's moving away from his
Twilight years and I hope to see him in more roles like this one in the
future. Overall, this was a forgettable, boring, mess of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
What was probably an incredibly interesting story has been turned into
an incredibly dull film. Charlie Hunnam's Fawcett is as flat as
roadkill and Robert Pattinson might as well have stayed at home in bed
for all he brings to the tale. As for Angus Macfadyen; he obviously
thought he was in a different movie entirely. Three times during this
film Fawcett travels to the Bolivian jungle yet we barely learn
anything about the place or his expeditions. The director skips hastily
from one badly written scene to another with all the depth of a
Stephenie Meyer novel. This film is an episodic series of set pieces,
many of which should have been left in a heap on the cutting room
floor; the entire WW1 sequence brings absolutely nothing to the story
except filling quarter of an hour of screen time with clichéd dialogue
and hackneyed visuals. With Fawcett's final trip to the jungle you
might think that the fabled Lost City of Z might finally make an
appearance; you'd be wrong. The film fizzles like a damp squib and then
the credits roll, and not too soon either. Snore on.
<|_=00=_|>
I found the experience of watching this film to be akin to that of
listening to a person living with dementia telling you about their
life, with an adoring relative interjecting only to say "Oh he was
lovely!" every now and then.

It is, in essence, a series of episodes vaguely summarising various
events of Fawcett's life. Occasionally but briefly in intricate detail,
but predominantly with a general lack of substance. To return to my
analogy, I imagined myself at one point saying "That's incredible! Tell
me how you felt at that moment, did you realise right then the
magnitude of your discovery? Tell me about the gruelling journey home,
was it fraught with peril?" Only for the storyteller to continue.. "So
I arrived back in London...".

No! Please give me more details. I've dedicated over two hours of my
life to hear your story, but I've come away with roughly the same
amount of information as I could've gleaned from the back of a
primary-school student's pencil case. You know, like the ones that just
have a time-line with monarchs' names or some such alongside, but are
lacking in any further description.

On the plus side, it was quite nicely shot at points although it did
feel as if this, coupled with the apparent fact that this film was
shown in selected, more 'prestigious' and therefore expensive
theatres/screens were little more than candid narcissism and was
tantamount to the director pleasuring himself in my face for the price
of my £16 ticket. Additionally, and somewhat bizarrely, the first 20%
of the film had a near-constant and somewhat mediocre musical score,
immediately followed by a scene wherein some mediocre opera playing
within earshot of the characters could be easily mistaken for a
continuation of said score. This was intrusive and unnecessary, and
although it didn't continue throughout the duration of the film, this
did not excuse its inclusion in the first place.

Due to the lack of detail or any attempt at interconnection between
what I shall continue to refer to as 'the episodes' with a deliberate
lack of capitalisation as I don't consider them worthy of a title,
alongside abrupt changes in setting, the experience could also be
likened to that of being held hostage in a stranger's living room as
they mindlessly alternate channels between a Channel5 period drama and
a recap of a Blue Peter trip to the Amazon told from the perspective of
a donkey wearing blinkers, such is the lack of momentum and detail.
Dialogue is painfully slow and, were this not the case, the running
time could've been significantly shortened or better still been put to
good use in filling in at least some of the notably absent detail. I am
an advocate of a move away from the 90minute format of most films but
this does nothing to support that argument.

There is also a borderline-distasteful adoration of Fawcett's alleged
delivery of faux-profound proclamations worthy of being printed on the
back of a market-stall iPhone case. I am left unsure of whether this
was artistic licence or if Fawcett really was that much of a nob.
Similarly, little reference is made of his questionable attitude toward
the role and capability of women or his insistence upon prioritising
the recognition of his peers and reclaiming of the status of his family
name over the emotional well-being of his dependants.

Ultimately, his blind faith led only by local legend and a randomly
placed Russian fortune teller, and failure to commit to his children
led Fawcett either to his death and that of his son or, according to
this film, to his decision to remain in the utopia he may have
discovered, thus abandoning his wife and remaining children and leaving
them only with a faint hope that he survived. The former is likely more
plausible, though the latter would come as no surprise.

In summary The Lost City of Z is a vacuous, self-indulgent and
ultimately forgettable portrayal of what may have been a great man, but
likely was the exploration equivalent of a modern-day philosophy
student embarking upon a degree in order to suspend the
responsibilities of adult life.

Recommended as an alternative to viewing your Auntie's slide show of
sunburn-heavy holiday snaps from her latest trip to Alicante or similar
Sun holiday destination.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderful film that restores faith in the traditional art of
movie making. Richly shot on 35mm by DoP Darius Khondji, every frame
feels like an exquisite painting, carefully constructed by a filmmaker
at the top of his game in James Gray. The backdrops of England, the
Western Front and Amazonia all have interest on every inch of the
screen and yet for all this color and texture, it is the characters
that leave you thinking long after exiting the theater.

Charlie Hunnam, as Col. Percy Fawcett, is adequate and measured, but it
is star turns from Sienna Miller (Percy's wife), Robert Pattinson
(companion Henry Costin), and a ruddy cheeked and opulent Angus
MacFadyen (wealthy explorer James Murray) that make the film. The
haunting struggle and draw of the jungle and the world Percy leaves
behind is revealed through committed portrayals of three dimensional
characters who are both authentic to their era and yet still relevant
in 2017. And that is the theme that is so skillfully woven throughout
the film by Gray, the conflict of portraying the "other" as whole and
independent in a world that simplifies and condescends. That Gray could
make a story about an early 20th Century British explorer resonate so
profoundly with the world we live in today, shows that this is his
finest work to date. 

All lovers of cinema should see it, but anyone able see it from a
beautiful 35mm print should definitely not miss the opportunity. This
is filmmaking as it is supposed to be.
<|_=00=_|>
It's one of those labor of loves it seems as the film felt like it was
more interested in making an artistic narrative than it was about
making money. I can respect that, but it was a boring movie for that
reason. 

The Lost city of Z is about a British explorer named Percy Fawcett who
while on a survey mission in the amazon discovers evidence that the
"savages" once had a civilization the might even be older than the one
he came from and spends his life trying to find it.

I loved Charlie Hunnam in it. Hands down, his most grown up acting
performance, and really made Fawcett a compelling man to follow. In
fact the whole cast was impressive with Sienna Miller as Fawcett's wife
and Robert Patterson who I totally did not recognize under the bread as
Fawcett's most trusted companion on his trips. Tom Holland is also in
the movie as Fawcett's oldest son who joins him on his last journey to
the amazon. Other people gave great performances, but these are the
ones I knew by name, making it a pretty stellar cast for me.

While this movie does such a great job making Fawcett's life look
fascinating,following him through his time with the army to his time as
an explorer, I must admit that the slow burn of the narrative almost
put me to sleep. It reminds me of another project Brad Pitt (who
produced the movie) was evolved in, The Assassination of Jesse James by
the Coward Robert Ford. Though the Lost City of Z is not as painfully
slow (Notice the tile is half that of the Jesse James movie), the
combination of the quiet tone and it's speed was not something I wanted
to sit in a movie theater and watch. It's not that the movie is long,
it's that it feels long, and it feels like something that the movie
does on purpose.

I feel like the movie tries to gives us the realest accounts of a man's
life as they can and I can respect that, but man, the two hours and
thirty minutes this film comes in at was not easy at all to get
through. That's just my warning.

http://cinemagardens.com
<|_=00=_|>
*****Spoiler Alert**** I was really looking forward to this film, as
how can the exploration of the Amazon be anything other than amazing?
Well I was wrong, this was utterly boring, excruciatingly dull and just
plain awful. I can only give it a 1 out of 5 rating. After the first 30
minutes I was looking at my watch and wondering if I should bother, as
I had more important things to do, like clean the oven. How can anyone
make the exploration of the Amazon so tedious? This could have been
like real life Indiana Jones! There was absolutely no sense of danger
at any point, just flat as a very thin pancake. The film should really
be re-named The Lost City of Zzzzzzz.

It was a truly odd film, this bloke gets asked to go Bolivia for the
Royal Society to do some maps and stuff, doesn't want to go, But they
offer him a shiny medal so he goes (leaving his wife and new born son),
has a rubbish time, comes back to London, goes back to the Amazon
(leaving wife, and second son), comes back to London, Goes to France
for WW1, comes back to London and then goes to Amazonia again... For
Heaven's sake man - just choose one! I shouted through gritted teeth.

It's terribly directed and the cinematography is really bad (and I say
this as a trained cinematographer). It's so dark that I actually
wondered if the bulb in the projector was bust, but then it would cut
to a scene outside in a garden and it would (almost) be correctly
exposed. Some interiors were so badly lit I actually couldn't see who
was speaking, and a huge number of shots were so out of focus I again
wondered if we were watching a dud print. 

There was a really important (cough) scene with two blokes on a train
having a chat about something. Now one bloke has a beard and one has a
moustache, so that helps tell them apart in the dark, but for some
reason we are looking at them over their shoulders and not 'at' them,
and Mr Moustache-bloke turns away from camera (probably trying this
'acting' thing) and I can no longer see his face just his ear. Now it's
so dark I can't tell if he has a nice ear, if it's too big or too small
or if it sticks out, and By God this must be damn boring if I'm
wondering about the relative angles of ear projection rather than what
the hell is going on.

The framing is really odd, and the eye lines are all over the place, so
I don't know who is speaking to who, and often the camera operator
decided to be above or below eye-lines, making my head ache as it was
so badly composed. 

The first three scenes of the film could all be cut, or would serve
better as flash backs, as they just don't go anywhere at all. OK a bit
of back story, but we know the Major wants a medal with a single line
of dialogue, not three flipping scenes as dull as a rainy Sunday.

The main character Major Blokey-pants was utterly dull and his
motivation was all rather thrust down out throats, and I didn't care
for him. Only after 90 minutes or so did his wife start talking about
some bloke names Percy and I thought "Who is Percy?" and I realised it
was the main character, who had been referred to as Major something or
other (I forget) for the entire rest of the movie.

Couple of massive plot holes: they were in the middle of nowhere
running low on food on a raft made of branches saying how no white man
had ever been here before and clearly in the background is a bloke on a
horse in a field. I kept thinking they would pan around and explain but
they never did. I also wondered if they were travelling to seek the
source of the river, how they were just floating along and not
constantly rowing, as a river flows away from the source to the ocean. 

They have been travelling down river for a year apparently and it all
goes wrong and they decide to send this bloke back on a horse. Where
did this horse come from?

And they are in the middle of the river all weak and dying and the
other bloke (Beard-o) says to the main bloke "and here's a letter from
you wife." FTAF??? Where had he been keeping that then? 

When we finally get to the WW1 scenes the dead bodies in the trenches
are clearly shop window dummies and for a film that is this expensive
that is just rubbish. These scenes add absolutely nothing to the film,
we could just have had a Voice over which went "After the first world
war, where I saw active service in France and that bloke I knew who was
on the trip to Bolivia with me, you know, thingie, was killed, I
returned to London..."

Eventually we get back to Amazonia for the third time and Major
Blokey-pants has bought his son with him this time Blokey-Pants minor,
and they bang on about finding this lost city of Zzzz but never does he
put forward a reason why he thinks there might be a lost city or
indeed, why he is so keen to find it, he just wants to find it. Who
were these people? Why did their civilisation die out? what was their
favourite past time? Did they like cheese? None of these questions were
answered or indeed even asked.

Compare this film to the savage Aguirre: The Wrath of God (1972 Herzog)
the bonkers Fitzcaraldo (1982 Herzog) or even the rather depressing The
Mission (1986 Joffe) and you will be sorely disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the true story of British explorer Percy Fawcett, who made
several expeditions to the lost city of Z, believed to be the remains
of El Dorado in the Brazilian jungle. The movie follows three of these
expeditions and first picks up his life with a long introduction from
his military career onwards. The movie becomes only interesting with
the start of his first map making expedition on the border of Bolivia
and Brazil in 1906. Based on documentary and field research (pottery
finds), Fawcett became ever more convinced that a complex civilization
had existed there. The movie then touches upon a second expedition
initiated by the Royal Geographical Society that lead to controversy
about his role in that expedition. The first World War comes in between
before he makes his last expedition in 1925 with his son.

The script is based on the fascinating book by David Grann, who visited
the region in 2005 and came back with interesting findings about
Fawcett's expedition. By now, Fawcett has turned into an icon of
exploring ancient civilizations, making its way into popular culture,
Indiana Jones and The Lost World come to mind.

The movie and script is however too obvious for the story at hand. It
is painting by numbers, going from phase A to B in Fawcett's life
without any intelligent storytelling, ending up with a movie that I
first thought was made for TV or online. Compare this to the classic
Herzog movies Aguirre or Fitzcarraldo, and it is clear what went wrong
here: Being about exploration, the movie itself shies away from
exploring cinematic possibilities and just plays it safe. Wouldn't it
for example not be far more interesting to just focus on that final
expedition and make the multiple accounts into a movie? Why Pitt's Plan
B saw anything in this is beyond me, as the company has by now a
reputation of risk-taking (and often being awarded for that).

But don't get me wrong: The movie is still watchable and the story
itself is enough to keep your attention. And it is very nice to see
Darius Khondji popping up here as DoP, you can still see his
groundbreaking work in Se7en shining through.
