
I was not very interested in watching Seeking Justice but I decided to
risk myself, because the publicity and the title suggested a typical
tale of personal revenge in the purest style of B cinema, and besides,
Nicolas Cage can be a good actor whenever he wants to. To my surprise,
the film ended up defying my low expectations with a screenplay which
is more ambitious than I expected, and even though it eventually
tangles itself too much for its own good, I never found it boring or
predictable.

I found the concept of Seeking Justice very interesting...something
like an hybrid thriller, built with parts from Fight Club, Straw Dogs
and Strangers on a Train. The combination works pretty well until the
half of the film, when we get into conspiracy fields which quickly
become confusing, improbable and even a bit ridiculous. However, Roger
Donaldson's dynamic direction avoids the movie from getting boring.
Cage makes a credible work in the leading role, and he is well
complemented by the solid performances from January Jones and Guy
Pearce.

So, I would say that the screenplay from Seeking Justice is
simultaneously its main pro and its main obstacle, because it starts
with an interesting idea, it develops it well for a while, but it
looses the course and the narrative focus during the second half, until
leading to an excessively convenient ending.

Anyway, I had a good time while watching Seeking Justice, and I
consider it worthy of a moderate recommendation. However, if you wanna
watch better movies about revenge, I recommend you Oldboy, both
versions of I Spit on Your Grave or Death Wish. Nevertheless, I liked
Seeking Justice despite its fails, and it was better than I expected.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Cage and Guy Pearce aren't exactly my favourite actors, I can't
put my finger on why but they both just really annoy me. So I didn't
have very high expectations going into this film, thinking that I would
be rolling my eyes at every word they uttered. The fact that I enjoyed
the film, is either a nod to my ability of being able to withstand
irritating people or that it was actually a really good film.

The untimely incident with Will's (Cage) wife (January Jones), was made
even more disturbing by the juxtaposition of him playing chess. Such an
ugly event opposed to a tranquil game, it worked really well. I did
have a little pernickety moment, when Will went to visit his wife in
hospital. His character just didn't seem believable, he didn't even ask
what had happened to her or how she was. Most normal people would (ok,
moment over).

The snakeskin shoes worn by the villain is a great reiteration of the
phrase several characters use, "This place (New Orleans) is going to
hell," and judging by the choice of the initial villain's footwear,
he's going to be the one to take them there.

January Jones shows how to fight back, with her major "girl power"
moments and as a teensy feminist, I loved it. Alongside a thrilling
plot, I was pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
In New Orleans, the English teacher of the high school Rampart High
Will Gerard (Nicolas Cage) and his wife, the musician Laura Gerard
(January Jones), are in love with each other. One night, Laura leaves
the rehearsal in a theater and is assaulted and beat up by a rapist
while Will is playing chess with his friend Jimmy (Harold Perrineau).

Will stays in the hospital and out of the blue, a stranger named Simon
(Guy Pearce) tells that he belongs to an organization of vigilantes and
offers to eliminate the rapist. In return, they would want a favor from
Will in the future. Will accepts the agreement, the criminal is
murdered and six months later, Simon collects his debt with Will. He
gives the password "The hungry rabbit jumps" to Will that learns that
he shall kill the pedophile Alan Marsh (Jason Davis). Will accidentally
kills Alan and sooner he learns that the victim was an awarded
journalist that was investigating the organization. Now he seeks
evidences to prove his innocence but the network of the organization is
powerful and is seeking Will out to eliminate him.

"Seeking Justice" is an entertaining thriller with a good story that
entwines the idea of "Death Wish" with "The Star Chamber". The non-stop
action does not give time to the viewer to think and consequently hides
the flaws in the screenplay. The forgettable story is quite
predictable; Nicolas Cage and January Jones have good performances; but
in the end I enjoyed this film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Pacto" ("The Pact")
<|_=00=_|>
Although a number of reviews play down this film, I thoroughly enjoyed
it. I quite like Nicholas Cage, ever since Con Air - he seems to play
the laid back, slightly relaxed good guy to whom it all just gets a bit
too much. You are quickly engaged with the theme of the film although I
have to say I find it difficult to imagine Mr. Cage as a High School
English lecturer. No massive brain power needed to follow the story
line which moves at a satisfying pace.

In this, at times, quite plausible film he again enjoys the hard done
by guy but you find yourself drawn along with him almost feeling for
him.

A very nice way to spend 105 minutes and well worth your viewing time.
a definite 7.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been Nic Cage's biggest fan. In fact he is to acting , as
i am to Ballet Dancing , most of the time but Seeking Justice ( or
Justice as it is named in the UK) is definitely one of his less
disastrous movies.

Nic Cage plays a husband who's wife is beaten and raped by a stranger
while walking to her car. While in the Hospital he gets a visit from a
suited man ( Guy Pierce) who offers to eliminate the man who raped his
wife but if he accepts , at some stage will have to repay the favour..

The critics panned this film when it came out late last year but i
think they have been a little unfair. I found this film highly watch
able and the concept a really interesting one. Guy Pierce is really
good as Simon and his demeanour is perfect for the bad guy role. Cage
doesn't stink up the screen either although i wasn't too happy with
seeing the irritating Jennifer Carpenter ( of Dexter fame) in the film
but thankfully it was just a cameo role. 

Justice has some great action scenes and some interesting ( if a little
unbelievable) plot twists and i enjoyed it for what it was - a good
action thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Cage has recently been on a bad streak of movies such as Season
of The Witch, Trespass, and recently Ghost Rider 2. I watched this with
no expectations and to my surprise thought it was actually pretty
decent suspense thriller. No, it's not a great movie, but it's a
perfect Rental that will keep you entertained. The acting is actually
pretty good. Cage and Jones do an alright job, but Pearce really did a
good job as the villain in the film. I thought a movie like this would
be predictable, but the film actually goes in a bit of a different
direction than you would expect it to. However, the movie fell flat in
it's third act when it substituted all of it's suspense for action and
a somewhat disappointing ending. Still, even though it's not a great
movie and has it's flaws, Seeking Justice is still a decent thriller
perfect for a rental that is better than you would probably expect.
Even if you don't care for it, you still can easily admit that it's
better than any of Cage's other recent films.
<|_=00=_|>
We do love Nicolas Cage, don't we? His career is always interesting,
even if his films aren't - he seems to make, in equal measure (although
not necessarily consecutively) critically acclaimed art-house movies,
multiplex crowd pleasers, and utter clunkers. Justice (aka Seeking
Justice) seems to have been prejudged as being a clunker.

It tells of what befalls teacher Will Gerard (Cage), after his musician
wife Laura (January Jones) is brutally raped and beaten. He is
approached in the hospital waiting room by mysterious and vaguely
menacing stranger Simon (Guy Pearce) who observes how little the law
seems to do for people in the Gerards' situation, and offers to fill
that gap - and it will only cost some sort of small favour in the
future. Seeing his wife's condition, Will accepts, and Laura's rapist
duly turns up dead in fairly short order. Then Simon calls Will for the
favour, and that's when things go pear-shaped.

This isn't such a clunker as you may have been led to believe. It isn't
a multiplex crowd-pleaser either, but it has a good set-up, a gritty
feel, and a cast who perform with commitment. The resolution,
unfortunately, isn't as good as the set-up, and the script isn't too
brilliant (with, frankly, some fairly unbelievable stuff in it), but it
is a decent, if unexceptional, thriller - there have been much worse,
and Cage has been responsible for some of them!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie surprised me, since many people claim that Cage only has
"bad" films. This one is actually quite good. In fact, I was about to
give it an 8, but due a few bad actors I couldn't.

I think Cage acted good in this film. The story is easy to follow, so
no brain cracking mysteries that make you think by the end of the film
"what the hell happened." I really can't stand complex endings.

In easy words, it's an enjoyable thriller about a guy who's wife gets
raped. In the hospital, this strange guy in a suit does this proposal
to kill the rapist for him. As he agrees with doubts, it soon turns out
he needs to kill other people for him to repay this civic organization
who "seek justice". Of course, he doesn't want to kill people and asks
the same guy to get out of his life. If only it was that simple...

I recommend to see it! Enough action, thrilling scenes, mostly
well-chosen actors. It's a 7 alright!
<|_=00=_|>
Nicholas Cage has participated in ambivalent movies, but this one is
definitely among the better ones. And he is pleasantly complemented by
Guy Pearce whose character is controversial to the end. Development of
events and characters is logical, and viewers have - similar to various
characters - constant dilemmas what kind of standpoint to take up with,
as the background issue is serious, and good intentions get out of
control quite fast. I felt that it must be horrible if you can trust
nobody during peacetime.

Recommended to all desiring to spend a thrilling time in front of TV or
at the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I was particularly happy with the movie. This might be
partially due to the fact that the last one I watched was Musallat 2 -
a wanna be scary Turkish movie. 

The plot was well-written, although with some gaps in certain places
that makes the viewer think if it is because of time constraints, and I
really liked the message and the place- New Orleans - chosen for the
movie. I also liked how, at the end, it went back to the beginning -
and the reverse, thus creating questions in our minds at the beginning. 

Sometimes it seemed to me hard to believe how serene Nicolas Cage's
character could be- under certain circumstances - it seemed that some
emotions were lacking, but it might be a choice of acting of course. I
really liked Laura's perseverance, her willingness to move on and her
trust in her husband. They did a really good psychological job on the
character. 

Overall, it was a good one. I really liked what I saw. Actions were in
place, and were used well to create suspense.
