
In a lot of ways, this is a puzzling movie. Every single element of it
is so right, so how does it end up being so completely uninvolving that
I ended up nearly falling asleep halfway through? The problem isn't the
casting; Colin Farrell makes a hell of a gangster, all smouldering
machismo stomping through the streets of London. And with a supporting
cast that includes Eddie Marsan (sleazy), David Thewlis (sleazier) and
Ben Chaplin (sleaziest, and very, very good), Farrell has some
excellent support. Ray Winstone has never been scarier, but of all
people it's Anna Friel who takes the acting honours as Farrell's
sister, a woman who out-sleazes Marsan, Thewlis and Chaplin combined.

The problem isn't the locations, or how true to life they are. I lived
in London for a long time, and I've rarely seen the city depicted
better, all back streets and alleyways with nasty bastards lurking
around every grubby corner. Considering the film's writer and director
William Monahan is from Boston, I was worried that this might be the
tourist's eye view of London, but that really isn't the case. The film
positively drips with atmosphere, and the expletive-heavy dialogue
rings true.

And yet it all sits there, lifeless on the screen, a collection of
images and characters that seem only vaguely related to one another. It
doesn't help that the main plot - will Farrell become a proper
gangster, or will he end up with Keira Knightley's way-too-good-for-him
actress - is hardly new. But that doesn't have to be a deal breaker,
and there are plenty of interesting minor characters to pass the time.

The problem is really that the film feels rushed. Those minor
characters aren't given nearly enough time - Marsan gets three scenes,
none of them remotely important to the plot, and even Anna Friel
doesn't get a lot to do. She's still better off than Stephen Graham and
Sanjeev Bhaskar, great actors who are cast in completely pointless
roles that could have been played by anyone. And so much of this movie
feels tacked on, from the dozen or so subplots, to Winstone's pointless
murder of the wrong man halfway through, to the stalker, obviously
based on Mark David Chapman, who makes several ominous appearances and
is then dismissed in a single line of dialogue.

If some subplots and characters are pointless, though, the ending made
me feel that way about the whole damn film. Without giving too much
away, it's a horrible, limp lettuce of an ending, with none of the
resonance that the film-makers clearly thought it had achieved. That's
the film in a nutshell - it wanted to be profound, but ended up as a
giant 'so what?'
<|_=00=_|>
It just kills me that once again I had the (un)fortunate chance to
trust someone with an answer to a simple "Is it any good?" question.
People all around me were bashing this movie before I watched it and I
heard so many things. I heard it stole the plot from Carlito's Way, I
heard the ending was disappointing, I even read comments like "Keira
Knightley has no tits and less talent". The only thing I'm disappointed
of is myself for believing all of these s... tuff. Yet I'm kind of glad
I read and heard all the negative responses, because it caught me off
guard even more than it probably would've if I'd seen it without
somebody's thoughts.

The acting and script were superb. Knightley's performances almost made
my heart skip a beat, Farrel's teeth grinding and weird expressions got
me all worked up about his problems, Winstone was giving me the creeps
and Thewlis got me laughing out of my breath. "I'm an actor - I can
feel anything about anything". Great script, superb acting - if you're
a fan of one of the actors in here, a fan of British cinema, a fan of
the crime genre or a fan of quality pictures in general - this is the
movie for you. Oh and remember - when it comes to art and judgement -
trust ONLY yourself! You owe it to yourself to go see this movie! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The movie had promise - directed by The Departed's writer William
Monahan and starring an eclectic bunch of British stars Colin Farrell,
Keira Knightly, Ray Winstone, David Thewlis and Anna Friel. Even Eddie
Marsan, Stephen Graham and Ben Chaplin make appearances.

Unfortunately despite a snazzy score and a stylish flourish, this movie
is nothing more than a collection of London gangster movie clichés and
stereotypes with an obvious script written by an unauthentic source.
The characters can all be labelled with a single word (villain, victim,
druggie etc), bereft of any depth or colour.

Farrell plays Mitchell, fresh from prison and determined to go
straight, within half-an-hour, he has been offered a choice of two
jobs. One working as a debt collector for tough and possibly homosexual
(who cares?) gangland boss (Winstone, who else) and the other
protecting a damaged & shy actress (Knightly). Needless to say,
Winstone doesn't take kindly to being refused and sets his sights on
hurting Mitchell as revenge (hasn't he got better things to do?) The
movie doesn't ring true at every juncture and the only pleasure the
viewer grab, is when watching Thewlis's thinly veiled Withnail
impression or with the music on show.

Do yourself a favour and watch Layer Cake instead.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was brimming with potential, an adept cast, some stylish
directing & gritty yet beautiful set locations. However some of the
story & the actions taken by its characters were implausible, & most of
its ideas didn't develop effectively on screen. 

Recently released gangster Colin Farrell meets a young female friend of
reclusive celebrity actor Kiera Knightly & offers him a job protecting
her from intrusive paparazzi. He shows up for work & What feels like a
scene or two later they have (unconvincingly) fallen in love. parallel
to this Farrels character is finding it hard to escape his past & is
soon roped into a feud with gangster boss Ray Winstone. He is now faced
with the dilemma of either returning to his previous nature or
beginning a life of new found love in LA.

All this is played out with some very stylish moments, such as the
dialogue between Winstone & Farrel in the restaurant or the artistic
but realistic way in which the environment is captured. All the acting
is well done & Its accompanied by a great soundtrack, but a huge amount
of the script feels rushed & underdeveloped. As a whole it is
entertaining if not taken to seriously but may not appeal to any
serious film enthusiast.

I also felt that the ending of this film was brave but what I had seen
prior to it lacked enough substance or attachment to make it stick & I
think I would have been more satisfied with a conventional ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Glimpses of what could have been a far better film appear at regular
stages throughout what is essentially another 'Landan' crime flick.

You could be forgiven for assuming the predictable plot is actually a
clever ruse, with a huge twist or revelation certain to turn events on
their head in the back end of the film. But alas, William Monahan's
directorial debut points you in one direction from the start, then
follows a fairly straight line for it's 100 minutes run time.

What elevates this movie from Danny Dyer fodder is the rather exciting
cast of British and Irish big guns, with David Thewlis perhaps the most
interesting character and screen presence. The likable Colin Farrel's
posh-boy cockerney accent is consistent enough not to distract, and you
certainly root for his reluctant protagonist Mitchell. Ray Winstone is
typecast as the (needlessly racist) villain, and Anna Friel is perky
and trashy as Farrell's screen Sister.

Ikea Knightley on the other hand, is wooden and unconvincing as the
'Superstar' whom Farrell's Mitchell is hired to protect. A limited
screen presence at the best of times, it's hard to tell if Knightley's
emaciated Supermodel/Actress is supposed to look so frail or if that's
just how Knightley turns up to work... Either way, she makes for a
particularly unattractive and unconvincing screen starlet, and when her
Charlotte laments that Actresses are merely in films to make the male
heroes look good, she struggles to do even that.

The under explored sub-plot regarding Mitchell and a young thug
shamelessly bookends the film with a predictable climax 'borrowed'
heavily from the far superior Carlito's Way, and left me for one,
thinking about the far better film this so-so effort could have been.
<|_=00=_|>
If I only had three words to use to describe this film they would be
Classic, Cool and Clever. Ray Winstone's (Gant) presence is eagerly
anticipated and arrives at last almost a quarter of the way into the
film. An impressive stately Rolls Royce signals this is the arrival of
an important person even before he steps out onto the pavement. The
clichéd story line of the ex-con walking from prison set on a life of
'going straight' and that 'one last job' springs to mind seem not to be
irritating. Colin Farrel (Mitchell) could be auditioning for James
Bond. He is cool, calm and collected. Nobody and nothing spook him.
Everybody smokes, a lot, and swears, a lot. However, this is a crime
thriller/gangster movie after all and is to be expected. It's just that
those two words 'f**ck off' and 'you c**t' are said with such
conviction but in a cool and effortless manner by both Gant and
Mitchell. The film has a calm linear flow for a crime thriller but
several twists and turns toward the conclusion remind you that within
this genre,clever can often be more stimulating than too much blood and
violence. Although there are a few quite gruesome scenes. However, the
nasty bits are not dragged out and enough is seen for you to get the
picture of what's going on!Winstone, Farrel, Thewlis, Friel give good
performances and present interesting roles. Knightly however gives a
rather wooden performance in a boring role. Humour is weaved within
this relatively serious film and classic 60's music from bands such as
the Yardbirds add to the recipe which make this rather tasty. A few
unexpected twists of fate toward the end seal this stylish film.
<|_=00=_|>
London Boulevard is a big screen adaptation of Ken Bruen's 2001
fictional crime novel of the same name and a directorial debut for
William Monahan of Departed (2006) fame, for which he contributed the
screen play in Martin Scorcese's seminal Oscar triumph. Monahan manages
to assemble a pretty interesting cast for the job matching big name
attractions notably Colin Farrell for the lead of Mitchell an ex-con
trying to place his life on the straight and narrow who finds
complications aplenty but centrally in the shape of Keira Knightley
playing Charlotte, a reclusive actress in need of Mitchell's muscle in
order to fend off pesky paparazzi, perform some odd jobs around her
abode whilst also seeking comfort in his softer side when making use of
Mitchell as a confidante.

The strength of the piece is in the supporting cast who mainly
transpire as conduits for Mitchells struggle with the temptations of a
potential return to his old ways. Leading the second tier is Ray
Winstone as crime lord Gant who genuinely creates an atmosphere of
dread when on screen as he attempts to lure Farrell back to the
dark-side. David Thewlis is equally adept as he plays Jordan a drug
induced failed thespian who is Charlotte's business manager. There are
also roles for Ben Chaplin as a blundering hood whilst Stephen Graham
and Eddie Marsan are shamefully under used in their minor roles.

As you might be thinking there is a lot a going on here and that's sort
of where Monahan gets into trouble, the narrative is littered with
plot-holes and semi developed ideas and characters such as Anna Friel
who pops in and out the story as a Mitchell's troubled sister, this is
largely a product of the derivative nature of the project. Monahan
seems to be tipping his hat at the types of movie he himself has
indulged, for example there is clear a sense of early Guy Ritchie in
style of the visuals, soundtrack and occasional attempts at humour. The
mood and tone owes more to Scorcese traits such as an angry gratuitous
racism and overly proud glorification of the gangster life style. It's
a rarity when a film could be said to be too short, but one way London
Boulevard could have been improved is an extra 45 minutes or so to pay
attention to its many details.

The major task London Boulevard will have is proving it has any
substance, it will be interesting to see if William Monahan will be
encouraged to take this debut any further and perfect or enhance his
directorial style with future work, if so this could be remembered more
fondly as part of a bigger picture. If not it will fall through the
cracks of irrelevance rather quickly.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, really, enjoyed this film. Colin Farrell is back on form. He
should stick to straight forward, tough guy, black comedy rather than
galavanting around on a horse in Alexander! The film reminds me of the
type of filming that made me love 'In Bruges'. The atmosphere between
Farrell and Ray Winston is pretty intense. Lady actresses Anna Friel
and Keira Knightly are gorgeous and Anna plays a great role as
Farrell's pain in the ass sister. David Thewlis is great and actually
enjoyed seeing a cast made up of mainly British actors/actresses. I
would strongly advise going to see this film. Better than expected.
Only thing I would have changed was a different last minute to the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film expecting a cool,tense,exciting Brit thriller.
The trailer looked decent and the acting talent on show made me want to
give it a go. Overall though it failed to deliver on the promising
looking opening credits. It lacked any real tension or suspense, the
story felt underdeveloped with too many subplots and a lot of it just
fails to convince. Many parts of the film are just not believable
enough.

The acting is fairly strong and there are a couple of elegant visual
touches;(Farrell in the car for example).In my opinion,the soundtrack
is the best thing about the film. Serge Pizzorno from Kasabian had a
hand in the music on this one and he has done a good job with a
60's/70's spaghetti western/French art-house vibe if you can imagine
such a thing!

Finally its worth noting that I asked my girlfriend to contribute her
thoughts after seeing the film and she gave me a one word
reply..........."sh*te"
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie, kept my eyes on the screen till the end. I
just couldn't get bored when the movie is full with events and so many
interesting characters. These characters are having their own
interesting stories, and I think it was a good decision not to develop
it more. We see only what's relevant to Farrell's character.

"London Boulevard" is about a man in some troubles, surrounded by
people with their problems. It's a mess from which the main character
must get out. This movie isn't supposed to be profound, it's intense.
it's not about how Farrell makes his decisions and his inner conflicts,
we just get to see how he tries to break through.

I enjoyed the storyline and wouldn't even dare to judge its
credibility. I just put this in the "inside view" category. It's London
the way tourists wont see it probably. Acting was great for all cast!
This is the right place for Farrell. I would only object Knightley, but
this could be just my taste.

After watching the movie, there was only one thing that disappointed
me, and that is - the end. This is not a philosophical movie, the end
shouldn't raise questions. And the question raised at the end is not
even philosophical... it's just lack of information. Still... I don't
think one minute ruined the film.
