
I wonder how many married couples out there can attest to their
lifestyle being nothing but revolving around work, family and
especially kids, with the latter just sapping whatever free time they
have in their waking hours, only to find themselves stuck in a
wash-rinse-repeat cycle. The film examines in a comical fashion of
course, the lifestyle of the typical family with working parents and
young children, and how there isn't anything known as personal time,
and having routine becoming the rot in their lives.

For the Fosters Phil (Steve Carell) and Claire (Tina Fey), such is
their married life, with spontaneity and energy being sucked so dry,
even their regular date nights seem like a chore. You know, that
precious night where you think you can paint the town red with a
babysitter looking after the kids, and the sad thing being that even
that can turn out to be lifeless, save for their favourite game played
during dinner, where they adlib what they think about other diners
around them.

Which is pretty cool, given that the two comedians, as the blooper reel
played during the end credits showed, hammed it up a lot with awesome
ad-libbing and improvisation, that never fail to bring on the laughter.
In fact, opportunities where they are cut loose and allowed to go
really crazy, are some of the best parts of the film, breathing comedic
life into a very simple story of how their, well, little white lie in
order to get a table at a swanky restaurant, would turn their date
night upside down into a crazy urban adventure, filled with thugs,
cops, and well, a beefy Mark Wahlberg.

If I had a physique similar to Wahlberg's security expert Holbrooke,
heck I'll strut around topless as well all the time, which serves as a
running joke about Man's insecurities about the pectorals and abs of
another. One of the nicer themes here involves how couples, beside
spending time together, have to emotionally connect and be honest and
upfront about their desires, and especially fears as well. In between
pursuits and comedy, director Shawn Levy pauses the pace appropriately
to inject some dramatic elements to sneak in a moment or two to examine
just that, before stepping on the pedal to floor the film to its
finale.

Like I mentioned, it's otherwise a very straightforward film that
doesn't try to be more than it can be, keeping things simple and to the
point, with great cameo appearances with the likes of Will.I.Am, Mark
Ruffalo, James Franco and Mila Kunis being those instantly
recognizable. Carell and Fey share an excellent chemistry and play off
each other's antics really well from wit to the timing of their
physical comedy, and you'll find yourself rooting for this average,
normal couple, to be going one up against their adversaries in a single
nighttime adventure, since all they want is to get out of their
predicament, and back to their home and children like all parents do.

Stay until the end of the credits if you didn't have enough of the
restaurant scene where Carell and Fey pose as arrogant Euro-trash, for
additional laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Tina Fey + Steve Carell = A funny and surprisingly heartwarming film.
Their on-screen chemistry is very good. They play the role as parents
pretty well. 

"Date Night" is a movie about a couple, named the Fosters, who are
running in the biggest rut of their life. They want to spark it up, and
decide that one night they will change up the routine.

What follows is a nice mix of comedy and inner conflict. The moments of
heart-to-heart talk seriously reminded me of a John Hughes-like-film.
Both Tina Fey and Steve Carell showed another aspect to their acting.
Date Night has many of the traits I enjoy in a comedy with a good
balance of laughs and sentimental value.

The diner scene at the end could pull some of the biggest tears out of
the most emotionless scum on the earth. It was adorable and I could
feel the relationship the Fosters were experiencing. Kudos, to the
writers for masterfully writing some emotional dialog.

Overall, Date Night is a very enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>
The director Shawn Levy sadly doesn't inspire a lot of enthusiasm going
into one of his movies. At best he's competent at what he does, and
some years back made a halfway clever and original 'movie'-comedy (Big
Fat Liar), but mostly has kept to Fox studio commercialism like Cheaper
by the Dozen and the Night at the Museum movies. And yet, he (or just
the studio) must have had the insight to put together two of the
funniest people working right now- not to mention with shows
back-to-back on Thursday nights on NBC- Steve Carrel and Tina Fey,
because they help elevate anyone's work by a longshot. This isn't to
say that Josh Klausner's script may not have some laughs, but where
exactly I can't be sure, since most of his contributions would appear
to come from the super-conventional story aspects (as my own mother put
it, "I don't know, looks like The Out of Towners, or that Blind Date
movie from the 80's").

So yeah, basic premise, married couple looking for a little change
(their friends are splitting up), go out to 'The City' (NYC of course)
and to a very nice restaurant. In a move that could come out of a
Seinfeld episode, they can't get a reservation so Carrel overhears a
waitress calling for someone else for a reservation and he decides they
should take it since they're no-shows. The "Tripplehorns", as it turns
out, have some shady dealings with some bad dues with guns, and so the
Fosters, our confused heroes, go on the run in the city. Whenever the
movie focuses on the core plot of all of this, it's by the numbers
stuff, save for a climax that ratchets up the absurdity of everyone
involved (including good actors playing decent-to-mediocre baddies like
William Fichtner and Ray Liotta).

It's when Fey and Carrel are allowed to play loose with the script that
it strikes the iron. Their timing is impeccable, and they have
chemistry together, which is crucial. And when they come across some
other supporting characters, like Mark Wahlberg's (VERY) shirtless
ex-military guy with all of his high-tech equipment, or the "real"
Tripplehorns played by James Franco and Mila Kunis, there's further
hilarity that ensues from the interactions and precise timing. That's
all you need sometimes in a comedy that's based in formula, is two
character to at least semi care about (and, perhaps more wisely than a
Hollywood rom-com can be given credit for, it has painfully normal
characters here, nothing too complicated), and who are funny in
semi-funny situations. Even a ridiculous car chase where the Fosters
hit a cab and the two are connected bumper to bumper through the
streets is funny just because of the acting. Given the right mood and
timing they could read a census report and get a few chuckles from the
pauses and inflections.

So, if you're looking for something masterfully done, look elsewhere.
If you just want to see two stars who are funny be funny almost despite
some of the limitations in the script, Date Night deserves a chance. At
the least you get to see the two show off their "skills" in a
strip-club scene, and, did I mention Mark Whalberg doesn't have on a
shirt?
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Most married couples can probably
relate to the grind of a life absorbed with work and parenting.
Sometimes the fantasy turns into having a quiet moment of solitude.
Heck, even "date night" can devolve into just another responsibility
tacked on at the end of a long week. This is the premise for director
Shawn Levy's film. The best part? It doesn't matter at all.

The reason this film works is not the plot or script, but rather the
talents of the two funniest people in showbiz today: Steve Carell and
Tina Fey. The two seem to have an exceptional comedic connection that
brings out a timing that reminds of the best comedy teams of all time.

Sometimes what makes for the funniest comedy is putting "normal" people
into exceptional situations and let them react. Here, Carell and Fey
are just a typical suburban couple trying to re-ignite the luster of an
all too comfortable marriage. The motivation comes when their friends
(Mark Ruffalo and Kristen Wiig) announce they are splitting. This
starts Carell and Fey off on a series of skits that would make Seinfeld
proud.

The nightmare begins when the couple "steals" a reservation in a hot
new restaurant and assume the identity of, what turns out to be a
couple of low level thieves. The multitude of skits that follow include
supporting work from dirty cops (Common and Jimmi Simpson), the real
reservation holders (funny James Franco and Mila Kunis), a mob boss
(Ray Liotta), a corrupt city official (William Fichtner) and a
"security expert" in the eternally shirtless Mark Wahlberg.

The approach of the film reminds me of "After Hours", "Adventures in
Babysitting" and "The Out of Towners". Some of the best comedy occurs
when the main players aren't tossing out incessant one-liners. Think
back to Cary Grant's screwball comedies. He was not a bumbling idiot or
a stand-up comedian walking through life. His characters were
reactionary to the odd-ball situations in which he was placed. That is
the approach of Carell and Fey, and I hope they pursue future projects
together.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I spent our date night on "Date Night." Starring two of the
funniest people in the American film industry makes this a must-see.
And we were not wrong.

The Fosters are a typical middle-income suburban couple with two
hyperactive kids. One night, they decide to spice up their date night
by going to The Claw, a posh Manhattan restaurant. Desperate for a
table, they claim the reservation of a no-show couple called the
Tripplehorns (a hilarious homage to the actress Jeanne!). Once that die
was cast, the Fosters were then plunged into a night of mistaken
identity, crooked cops, double-crossing crooks and blackmail. Of course
with Carrell and Fey as the Fosters, this nightmarish scenario becomes
a fun rollicking madcap all-night adventure! 

Witty lines and zingy one-liners are thrown between these two, and the
numerous name actors who make supporting appearances. These include the
perpetually shirtless Mark Wahlberg (though that joke did wear thin
after a while), and a gruff and dirty James Franco (whose shouting
match with Carrell is classic!). The funniest scenes involve two hooked
up cars in a frenetic car chase in downtown New York, and a psychedelic
dance floor with a pole. Those two LOL scenes alone are worth the price
of admission! 

With the talents and goodwill of the two lead stars, I am pretty sure
"Date Night" will be liked by most audiences. There are a couple of
scenes with heartfelt discussions about married life as well in there.
This is indeed a perfect movie for a fun date night.
<|_=00=_|>
Predictable? Sure, this ain't a comedy that pretends to be more than a
vehicle for the comedic abilities of the very likable Tina Fey and the
sometimes over-the-top (but not so much in this movie) Steve Carrell. 

Aside from the surprising cameos in this show, there aren't much
surprises. This is one of those movies where there's a couple that's
been in a somewhat fixed circle of boredom in their lives. Heck, even
their regular date nights have been very predictable.

Steve and Tina are the Fosters; upon finding out that one of their
closest couple friends are splitting up, they try to spice things up by
having a date in the city. In a case of mistaken identity, their
would-be date night winds up an action-filled, sometimes funny evening.
Except for a few scenes, this movie isn't anything innovative; but it's
still nice to see Steve and Tina play likable characters.

The producers of this flick know what they have in these two actors,
and the movie is enough to give their comedic and acting chops (nothing
like Steve's nice acting ability in Dan in Real Life) a little flexing.
With this knowledge, I still recommend this movie to those who want to
enjoy a little break from the action-3D-filled movies out there now. A
little date with your significant other watching this movie would be
good.
<|_=00=_|>
At 88 minutes, the movie is not long, it just feels long.

Based on the outtakes during the credits, the cast and crew had more
laughs then the audience. There are some laughs early, mouth guard and
slow motor boat are good for a chuckle, but the movie fails the test of
a comedy as it is not funny.

The club scene pole dance sequence is an embarrassment to the actors. A
very talented cast deserves better material.

The interiors are dark and it's night so there isn't much light. It is
a relief when the sun comes out on the front lawn for the fun last
scene.

Unless you are desperate for popcorn, don't waste your date night on
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Carrel & Tina Fey are great comics on TV. I found them stilted
and so predictable in this movie that my mind started to wander and I
kept looking at my watch during this very short film of only 88
minutes. The script was silly, more for a 12-13 year old, if at that.
There were so many ridiculous plot twists that I just tuned out. It
seemed so unrealistic although the plot itself was feasible. It could
have been a very smart,witty movie, but stupidity was all around,in the
dialogue,the strip bar scene,their dancing,and even the car chase.
Luckily,I went on a Tuesday in Toronto when the movies are $6 all day
so I didn't waste too much money. The part I enjoyed most were the
outtakes at the end when the credits were rolling. It's best to wait
until this boring movie is out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The suburban tax lawyer Phil Foster (Steve Carell) and the real estate
agent Claire Foster (Tina Fey) have a boring married life in New
Jersey. In their routine, they have once a week the "date night", when
they hire a baby-sitter for their children and they have dinner in the
same restaurant. When their best friends decide to divorce because of
their routine, Phil decides to surprise Claire and have dinner in the
fancy restaurant Claw in Manhattan. However, they do not have
reservation and is almost impossible to get a table; when Phil
overhears the waitress calling Mr. and Mrs. Tripplehorn, he lies and
gets their table. Sooner two men invite them to leave the restaurant
with them and they believe the invitation is because they took the
reservation of a couple that has not shown up. But they discover that
the couple stole a flash memory from the powerful gangster Joe Miletto
(Ray Liotta) and now they have a serious problem to resolve.

"Date Night" is a funny and entertaining film with a non-original
storyline about a mistaken couple that works. Steve Carell and the
beautiful Tina Fey are hilarious in the roles of the suburban couple
that has a night of adventure for taking the reservation of another
couple in a popular restaurant. I believe most of the couples married
for a long time will easily understand the situation of Phil and
Claire. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Uma Noite Fora de Série" ("An Outstanding Night")
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, Steve Carrell and Tina Fey should be a good combination, and sure
they do work together. However, this movie is about a couples who have
been together for so long that live is just boring and are looking for
that spark. So, contrived plot about them taking someone else's table
and getting mixed up in mob blackmail. That's it.

Sadly this movie isn't a comedy and it really was painful to watch a
longtime married couple pretending at various points in the movie as to
what they think is exciting. Oh, then back to the serious plot about
how they might get killed.

The last few Steve Carrell movies have been poor and with The Office
seeming rather weak in Season 6, I wonder if his career is faltering.
It's the same character in The Office, Dateline and Get Smart.

Bottom of your DVD rental list - you've been warned. Oh unless you have
been in a longterm relationship that's getting stale; you might like
this one.
