
I don't want to waste time dragging down this review like the movie
did, so I'll mention some key elements.

Most of the movie was ad lib, they've admitted it. These are not
theater actors, they're film actors. They're not trained to be good at
doing things "off the cuff." There WERE parts that were funny, but they
were too few and far apart. The humor was sort of a slap in the face to
my intelligence. I was more offended that I was expected to be
entertained than I was the actual raunchy jokes. It was like a high
school project with a really big budget.

Slap in the face #2. It was like watching a really long commercial. The
characters actually fight over who gets to eat the milky way and
describe why they love the product so much. Seriously? Aside from those
things, there were a lot of little crappy plot devices that were way
too forced. Why is Noah suddenly getting raped by Satan? Why does
Franco's new multi million dollar concrete "fortress" home collapse
within minutes catching fire, and why does it have a basement you can
only access from outside? The overwhelming success of this movie in
only its second week is proof that the standards of young movie goers
is almost non existent. Better movies get drowned out because the
industry is so over-saturated by crap like this, so in a sense, you can
say that movies like this really are actually part of "the end."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie simply wasn't funny. It dragged on interminably, scenes with
little comedic value got dragged out for far too long presumably
because the directors (and main featured actors) were too high while
making this steaming pile of wasted time.

We get it. You like to do drugs and are generally wastes of humanity
and oxygen on this planet. This movie isn't funny though. There have
been many funny drug movies made, and made by funny people on drugs.
Super Troopers was funny, Cheech and Chong was funny, Half Baked was
funny, this was not funny.

This movie is a nauseating bromantic drama pretending to be a comedy. I
expected the two main characters to start making out at the end. Not
that there would be anything intrinsically wrong with that, in fact it
would've been cathartic since they so obviously were in love with each
other.

The two funniest actors in the movie, Ansari and Cera, die within the
first ten minutes and all you're left with is a weak cast and weaker
script.

I want Seth Rogen to give me my money back, though the two wasted hours
of my life are something no one can ever give back. Movies like this
make me not want to see movies in theaters anymore, because had I known
what I was going in for from trailers and the publicity, I never would
have bothered seeing this train wreck.

I wish I could give this movie zero out of ten stars.

I guess some people really like this stuff, but I'll be avoiding Seth's
movies like the plague in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
This was perhaps THE worst movie I've ever seen. Perhaps my wife and I
are simply too old for the subject matter (50s), but sex-oriented
jokes, drug use, and constant use of the f-word do not a humorous movie
make - and we are not prudish people, particularly my wife. I think I
smiled once, and I heard my wife giggle once, but I was as close to
walking out of a movie as I've ever come. I doubt there was much of a
script involved, and my guess is that all of the actors were told to
ad-lib the nastiest sex joke that could get an 'R' rating they could
think of. I mean a five minute scene about ejaculating all over
someone's house...??? Hardy-har-har. I now hate Danny McBride even more
than I did before this garbage, and what the hell was Emma Watson
thinking.

There is absolutely NOTHING I can recommend about this movie, and I
think it's the only one I've ever given 1 star to. Complete garbage.
The only way I'll ever attend another movie that Seth Rogen is in is if
he shows up unexpectedly in a bit part. He and his pal Evan Goldberg
have no writing talent whatsoever, and I can't say much about Rogen's
acting either. How they make a living in this business is beyond
explanation. Thanks for this utter waste of time fellas. You got me.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed the film, though in retrospect, I am not sure if
it is really a great film--there's not much to compare it to. One
thing's for certain: this film is not "just like" any other film you
could name. It is one of the funniest films I have seen in quite a
while. And I am probably going to miss the Rapture as a result of my
enjoyment.

The film has graphic sex talk and graphic violence. The dialog could
hardly be any nastier. And of course, hardly more sacrilegious.
However, despite all of that, the film is surprisingly good-natured.

This is not a film for children or for family viewing. Anyone who is
squeamish or easily offended should stay away.

And don't automatically assume that anyone over 40 would not like this
film. I'm over 60; I had a great time. So I saw it a second time, and
loved it even more.
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing the reviews as almost overwhelmingly positive, I had high
expectations. I figured, even if it only hit on a few notes, it would
be entertaining. Alas, I was led astray, once again, by the Intertubes.

At the 1 hr mark, we finally had enough and walked out. Browsing carpet
samples at Lowes was infinitely more entertaining than this piece of
garbage. The only way to see this movie and feel any entertainment is
to be completely stoned. I cannot fathom the source of all positive
reviews I've seen online. I guess it's because there's some attempts
early on at self deprecating humor as they make fun of all the cameos.

Some people must see it that way, but I do not. To me, it was nothing
more than 107 minutes of a self-indulgence where the actors were so
caught up in their awesome idea for a film they forgot to actually
WRITE SOME WITTY DIALOG! Seriously, the scene between Franco and
McBride about leaving loads all over the place was humorous for the
first 5 seconds, but hey...why not stretch this 7th grade humor out
another 2 minutes? The audience will LOVE it because WE think it's
funny and WE ARE SO AWESOME! 

I found it offensive, not for the subject matter, but for how they
treat the audience. Rogan thinks his jokes about 'playing the same
character in every movie' somehow make it excusable to sit back and do
it again? This is a lazy sophomoric stupid humorless pile of stinking
garbage that makes me feel bad about losing the 60 minutes of my life I
lost before coming out of my coma and walking out.

Rogan and crew, even though they DO play the same characters all the
time, can at LEAST feel good that they have some witty dialog in their
movies. In this movie, I was waiting for that but it never came. When
the sinkhole opened up, I wished I would've been able to fall in and
surrender to the sweet release of death rather than endure any more of
this circle-jerk ego trip.
<|_=00=_|>
Horrible; in my opinion.

I love all of these actors, and I love all the movies they play
in...Hell I even went to the movie stoned thinking it would make it
even funnier. Nope.

I honestly think I laughed MAYBE 5 times...Emma Watson was my favorite
part of the whole movie...Well and Channing Tatum, that was kinda
hilarious.

But really, so disappointed by this movie. 2 friends fell asleep, and
another friend and myself kept giving each other this look like "Wtf
are we watching..Is it over yet??" Go see it if you dare, no one can
tell you what to like and what not to like...But just know, you may be
extremely disappointed like my friends & I were.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like I saw a different movie than everyone else. It's simply not
funny, I think I laughed once. We really don't need to see a erect,
giant, detailed, graphic phallus in every movie, it's not funny. Then
to have to sit through an extended portion of Satan walking around with
his junk out is not funny and not needed. I'm not prudish but this
movie adds male genitals just to do it, it was a lame movie. Write
something creative like 40-year old virgin. This movie was lamer than
Pineapple Express and Your Highness. If you expect the wit of Knocked
Up, you'll be as disappointed as me. Save your money. 

None of the characters in the film are likable in the least, and they
are supposed to be playing themselves. I do not know why people are
treating Seth Rogen like he is incapable of mailing it in because This
Is The End is lazy and feels like it was mailed in to fulfill an
obligation to the movie studio. I also feel cheated by the excellent
reviews this movie received from the paid critics. How did anyone find
this trash funny?
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen Superbad, Pineapple Express, etc., then you know the
type of humor this movie will have. I, for one, could watch James
Franco, Seth Rogan, and Danny McBride leisurely eat a sandwich and
manage to laugh my butt off. Thankfully this movie is much more
exciting than that. It's brilliant that they all just play themselves
and manage to poke fun at their own lifestyles. Expect weed and drug
humor of course. The plot sets itself up for hilarity, as they all take
refuge in James Franco's fortress of a mansion while the world outside
them goes up in flames. Cabin fever mixed with dwindling supplies
results in hilarious situations and good one liners. 

The movie made me laugh extremely hard and had all my favorite people
in one film. I only wouldn't recommend this film if you're uptight and
religious.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to this movie today expecting to laugh hard. I have been a
fan of Seth Rogan, James Franco and all the rest so I knew what kind of
comedy to expect. I found the first couple of scenes funny but then the
movie just took a nosedive. I get that they are poking fun at their
lifestyles, but is Rogan boasting to the world that he's a pothead? And
if Michael Cera doesn't really snort cocaine, then why on Earth would
he want to portray that he does?? These aren't characters that they are
playing, they are playing themselves in this film. So this movie tells
me that these people are immature drug obsessed morons, and it is a
real shame that people like this get paid incredible salaries when so
many real good people are out there slaving on minimum wage. I know
some people may think I've over-analyzing this but I'm not. In a movie
where the actors portray themselves, I'm personally stunned that they
willingly participated in a movie where not only aren't they selected
to get in Heaven, that they continue to act like immature imbeciles
(especially McBride) in a time of biblical apocalypse. And one last
note, anyone that finds images of a man's junk everywhere hilarious,
really has some maturing to do. If I could give this movie no stars I
would. I really am upset I wasted money and time on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard good things from friends about this and I kind of wanted to
see it. So I decided might as well go see it. Before I saw what I am
about to say, I am a huge fan of almost all the movies these actors
have made. I thought pineapple Express, Hot tub time machine, Superbad,
and Knocked up were all amazing movies. I died in laughter throughout
all of those movies. However, I thought this movie was really bad.

At the beginning of the movie, I found almost all jokes and everything
very amusing. i thought it was going to be great until after Danny
McBribes scene when he appear. From that point on it just went down
hill. The jokes started to get worse. I thought I was the only one at
first that thought the movie was getting a little redundant and
ridiculous. It was then when i looked around and relieved people had
stopped laughing as well. I found myself waiting for the movie to get
better but it was just getting worse the jokes were just getting run
into the ground (Danny McBride and James Franco referring to
masturbating on everything). By the end, all I could think was I wasted
10.50$.

One of the most disappointing was almost all the actors. Seth Rogen,
awful. Michael Cera, really weird. Jonah Hill, just bizarre I mean I
personally found his performance really strange. Craig Robinson, Okay
but wasn't very funny. Danny McBribe, funny at first but then grew on
as very annoying. James Franco, funny. 

Overall, I really did not like this movie. Between the rape references
and biblical references, I found it to be really weird. I usually don't
care about that stuff but like I said they would drive it into the
ground. I would honestly wait until this is on Netflix. Trust me, this
will be on Netflix's for sure. Really not worth 10.50$.
