
As a fan of the 2008 Swedish film "Let The Right One In", I was
originally very frustrated when I heard the news about the upcoming
remake. "How do you ameliorate something that is already perfect?", I
asked myself. I treated the remake with hostility and vowed to stay
away from it. And then, I decided to open my mind. 

I attended the world premiere of this film at the Toronto International
Film Festival on Monday, September 13. I am very lucky to live in the
proximity. This was the first year that I've attended the festival.
Before seeing "Let Me In", I saw "127 Hours". 

I liked the idea of seeing the remake of a film that I recently gave a
second viewing. I thought it would be a fun challenge to sit there and
compare both films while watching. 

Before the screening (or it might have been after), the director, Matt
Reeves (who launched his career with "Cloverfield"), was welcomed on
stage to say a few words. It surprised me to find out that he, too,
thought the original was fantastic and didn't understand why he was
asked to remake it. However, after reading the book as well, he had the
desire to work on his interpretation of it. After this speech, I gained
a significant amount of respect for this man. 

When the movie began, I was only expecting something satisfactory. But
as the story progressed, I was breathless. It was a very captivating,
interesting take, and I loved all the little modifications. I honestly
believe that "Let Me In" is one of the greatest American remakes of all
time. 

Nevertheless, I still see the original, "Let The Right One In", as a
superior film. Although it may be a biased opinion, I preferred the
mood, atmosphere, and cinematography in the original. While the remake
seemed to take a greater interest in the horrific violence, the
original had the perfect blend of genres (thriller, romance, horror,
fantasy). Both films had many beautiful contrasts: coldness vs warmth,
chaos vs peace, guilt vs innocence, darkness vs delicacy, and despair
vs hope. 

I must also mention that I preferred the sense of ambiguity presented
in the original. Very few questions were answered, and the whole film
was more of a mystery left to interpretation. In contrast, Matt Reeves
was more clear and direct in his screenplay with the mystery
surrounding his characters. It's all a matter of personal preference,
though. I believe that most people will prefer what Matt did, since the
original has a certain style that less people can appreciate. 

Despite the comparison, I believe that they are both great movies that
can be enjoyed by everyone. Fans of the original-- rather than being
narrow-minded and boycotting this version-- should give it a chance and
appreciate it for what it is. Wouldn't you want more people in North
America to discover this mesmerizing vampire tale, anyway? 

I really enjoyed every aspect of "Let Me In". The child actors, Chloe
Moretz (Kick-Ass) and Kodi Smit-McPhee (The Road) were both excellent
choices. They proved to us, once again, that they are among the only
child actors who actually have talent. Now that I think of it, the only
thing that didn't impress me was the music. For an original score
composed by Michael Giacchino (Up), I was quite disappointed. It was
mediocre, in my opinion. It didn't convey the same emotion as Johan
Soderqvist's music in "Let The Right One In". 

Aside from that, "Let Me In" is a surprisingly great film for the fans
of the original. And it would probably be a bloody masterpiece for
those who haven't seen it. And yes, that lame vampire pun was
definitely intended. 

7.9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Given the background to this film, I must start by saying I have
neither read the book it is based on, nor seen the 2008 Swedish
original. After watching this masterpiece, I intend to do both.

This is a truly sensational film. When you can't really pin a film down
to a specific genre, you know you're onto something special. Calling
this film a "vampire movie" doesn't really do it justice, given the
preconceived notions most film goers bring to the genre. It is part
horror, part dark family drama, part love story, with all 3 categories
succeeding admirably.

In my estimation, the director has come on in leaps and bounds since
"Cloverfield", a movie with a clever idea that was hampered by a poor
cast and so-so execution. Here the director sets a mood of oppression
and isolation from the very earliest frames and never lets up. The
locations are used superbly, as are lighting and sound to create the
gloomy world poor Owen is stranded in.

The film undeniably belongs to Chloe Grace Moretz as the young vampire
Abby. This girl is an absolute powerhouse of an actress, turning in a
dark, subtle and convincing performance that belies her tender age of
12. If she does not make the shortlist for next year's Oscars, the
Academy needs its collective head examined. She embodies the potent
mixture of lovable innocence and animalistic darkness within Abby with
such ease, you will be genuinely astounded.

My fellow Aussie, Kodi Smit-McPhee, is also excellent, making you
really feel for the put-upon Owen and share in his joy at finding a
spark of happiness with the mysterious Abby. The entire film falls
apart if this pair fail to convince, so it is a testimony to their
respective talents (particularly Moretz') that you invest so heavily in
their relationship.

Don't let the press about this film being a remake put you off. I must
say I'm very disappointed to see this hasn't done too well at the box
office in the USA, as it is a vastly superior film to the likes of
"Paranormal Activity 2".

If anyone is in two minds about seeing this film, take the gamble and
shell out your hard-earned. You'll be glad you did, if for no other
reason than witnessing one of the most impressive performances by a
child actor in cinema history.
<|_=00=_|>
Stop right there if you think this is a horror film. This film dances
around a horror atmosphere while hiding in the shadows of a thriller.
It's actually first and foremost, a romance.

Chloe Moretz, of Hit-Girl fame from Kick-Ass, plays a child vampire who
moves in next door to a boy named Owen, who is very much alone and
bullied at school. Owen's mother is an alcoholic who won sole custody
and Owen's father is not allowed to come around. Moretz once again
steals the show as the tragic character of Abby.

Let Me In is an adaptation, written and directed by Matt Reeves, of the
2008 Swedish film Let the Right One In. Barely anything has been
changed from the original story, but the cinematography, some dialogue,
different actors and adjusted characters make for a new movie. Although
many fans of the original boycotted this film for months, Let Me In
will allow for the original to be viewed.

Matt Reeves does an excellent job and I've enjoyed his first two films
I've seen. Let Me In and Cloverfield are his only two pieces of work
I've seen and they are his most popular thus far.

This is a romance because it plays very intimately between the two lead
actors. The scenes between Owen and Abby are tender and very romantic
for the age of the characters. It's surprising to see how well two
child actors can be this mature and loving with such a great chemistry.
It has some thrills and chills and there's room for drama but it's
definitely meant to be a romance.

Personally, I've not seen the original film, but I do think this is a
great film in its own right. It certainly did a good job to get me
interested in watching the original whenever I get a chance.

It has a very short list of cast, as the only other names I can
recognize are Richard Jenkins and Elias Koteas. Their involvement is
less than secondary characters and even then they are still
overshadowed by the breathtaking Moretz. At 13 years of age, Moretz
amounts maturity and skill in her acting as much as an adult can. Her
timing and delivery is well-established and crafted almost as if she's
been doing this work for decades.

I can't say anything bad about Let Me In because I haven't seen the
original to compare and mostly because I really enjoyed the movie.
Perhaps it's my favourtism of romance movies and I am fascinated by
Moretz and child actor leads, but whatever the reason, I believe Let Me
In is going to be a great success with audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
From the very beginning we are treated to spectacular creepiness. Who
is the man who covered himself in acid? What kind of a strange young
man wears a mask and pretends to stab girls? Who are the new neighbors
that move in under cover of dark? This film is much more violent and
has more suspense than the original, a Swedish film hailed as a
landmark in vampire cinema, which might turn off some people but it
really made it great for me. The film was a roller coaster of emotion
and rhythm, each tender scene followed by a horrific moment. Some
people may feel that it moves too slowly, but each quiet moment is
meant to be enjoyed because deafening horror is soon to follow.

Overall it is not just a vampire story. It is the story of a lonely boy
who finds companionship in the most unusual place. It is a wonderful
study of human nature and asks important questions. Are there truly
evil people in the world? And are they always evil, or can they
actually be wonderful in the eyes of some? One of the great strengths
of this film is that it constantly moves between two worlds--the
sweetness of youth, and the horror of what a vampire really is. We get
a front row seat to both and must decide if the evil outweighs the
good.

I can't think of the last time I saw a vampire movie that impressed me
as much. This has all the blood and action that was missing from the
original, but maintains its commitment to carefully revealing the
characters to us. There are wonderfully creepy additions and a truly
artistic filming of a car crash that elevate this film onto a different
level than the original. If you are a fan of horror films this one is
not to be missed!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not one for "scary" movies, but this movie was so much more than
that. And in a time where I'm becoming more and more reluctant to watch
vampire films, I needed a movie like this to remind me just how good
this type of subject matter can be. Kodi Smit-McPhee and Chloe Moretz
were phenomenal. They brought a subtlety to there characters that was
gently heartbreaking at times, while exquisitely silent and perceptive
at others. The dynamic of the characters was tangible, and the viewer
ends up with a sense - not of whether the actions of the characters are
right or wrong or whether vampirism itself is okay when presented with
the face of a 12-year-old girl - but of whether they themselves believe
in the rightness or wrongness of where the story takes this young boy.
Unlike most "scary" movies, this one leaves the viewer with something
to think about when they leave the theater. And if that's not good
storytelling, I don't know what is.

The soundtrack was beautifully mellow at times as well as keeping on
point for the more thrilling parts of the film. The shots were lovely
and simple at times and rather artistically impressive at others.
<|_=00=_|>
"Let Me In" is an adaptation of the Swedish Horror Classic "Let The
Right One In". Being an adaptation many fans of the original may have
been against the idea of an adaptation on the basis of many adaptations
of other films in the past which had failed to do the original justice,
those fans should be happy to know that "Let Me In" not only does the
original's brilliance justice, but builds upon it to give an even
better experience, and a new take of an excellent story to those who
will see this film.

"Let Me In" (LMI) will make you do what the title asks, it will make
you open your mind, heart and subconscious where it will plant a seed
that will grow and continue to haunt you long after you have left the
theater. Unlike most Horror genre movies these days LMI is a movie that
doesn't lean heavily on visual effects and gore to scare you. Instead
LMI builds its foundation in an already excellent story, complimented
with great direction, acting, and cinematography. Normally the horror
genre is one I choose to avoid due to the frequent use of cheap visual
thrills rather then hard hitting emotional trauma and mental unrest.
This is where LMI transcends the genre, as it is a film with depth and
emotion that will truly stay with you long after the lights come on.

The acting in LMI is award worthy, especially Chloe Moretz as Abby,
who's acting is amazing and makes the film's most complex character
work. Give her the statue please! Worth mention for those who have seen
the original is compared to Lina Leadersson who did an exceptional job
as Eli, Chloe was responsible for both the acting and the voice, while
Lina was dubbed. Also award worthy is Kodi Smit-McPhee as Owen, without
Kodi's Owen to compliment Chloe's Abby the film would have lacked a
soul and fell flat despite a great story.

The one area I thought the film lacked compared to the original was
Musical Score, whole LMI has an excellent musical score, it is far more
direct than the brilliant and creepy Score that supported the original,
just nitpicking here though.

In my opinion LMI is a brilliant movie which perfectly compliments the
original, as well as one of the best this year.

9.6/10

***Spoilers Below This Point***

I hope my review doesn't come off as disjointed since I have separated
the spoilers from the rest of the review.

LMI is driven only by the relationship between Owen and Abby, two
brilliantly conceived and acted characters. 

Abby is a very complex character, many on the IMDb boards have taken
Abby to be a pure evil, calculative, and manipulative 200 year old lady
who has perfected the art of tricking others into helping her, I do not
agree with this. Abby's character is brilliant because despite these
200 years that she has lived, she is still a 12 year old trapped inside
of a monster. There are many hints throughout the movie that evidence
this. For example when Abby's caretaker fails to bring back blood for
her she is furious because she will now be forced to do the sinful deed
herself. Abby's reluctance to get her own hands dirty is evidence that
somewhere inside her the 12 year old girl still lives, rather than an
insatiable monster who would jump at the chance to enjoy adrenaline
pumping moments of a kill. This makes Abby kind of an ironic character,
she is defined by her disease as a creature that lusts for human blood,
as well as one with the power to obtain it herself, but instead she is
reluctant to do so when it can be avoided, because somewhere inside her
the 12 year old human girl still lives.

Owen is also a very complex character, but in a way that almost is the
inverse of Abby. Owen is a helpless school boy constantly tormented by
bullies in his school. He is weak, and has a poor family foundation
with his parents going through a divorce. But, when we look into his
character, and in certain scenes, we see he has a desire to do harm to
his tormentors. One example of this is the scene where he is stabbing
the tree with the knife and pretending that it is the group of bullies
that torment him on a daily basis. So his character can be described as
a weak 12 year old human boy, who wishes for the power to exact his
revenge on his tormentors and imagines doing them as well, yet he still
lacks the power to do so.

If one looks at this Owen and Abby work sort of like the puzzles Abby
loves in that each of them compliment a void in the other, hence when
they are together they are complete and they are happy. This is what
makes them a perfect match, as when Abby is with Owen she can be her 12
year old self which the majority of her clearly prefers to be, and on
the opposite end of the spectrum Owen is no longer lonely and at the
same time has someone who has the power to defend him.

Neither of these characters would be even remotely believable without
strong performances to back them up.

LMI is also one of the greatest Romantic Tragedies ever made, because
despite the happy tone the film ends on, one is assured there is
nothing but trouble ahead. Either Owen will outgrow Abby and due to his
love decide to keep himself useful and become her replacement
caretaker, or she will choose to share her curse with him, where both
will have to share in the curse of what a Vampire is a Victim.
<|_=00=_|>
Did not expect much going into this movie. Just the basic hope that it
was somewhat entertaining and made sense. It is amazing to me how
easily a movie can go bad from a single action or phrase. This,
however, was not the case for "Let Me In". It was flawless! A perfect
combination between a captivating storyline and interesting characters
that have an almost fairytale like interaction. At the same time
feeling completely natural. Add to that an amazing soundtrack that
submerges you even more into the characters world. I have always found
the "this is how it would actually be" approach in depicting fiction
and supernatural stories to be more captivating and effective. The
movie is a complete underdog and is definitely worth seeing. Walked
away wowed!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This is not your typical horror film, though it does have horror
elements (e.g. suspense, violence, gore). Really it's a story about the
complex loving relationship that develops between two children. The
fact that one of them is a vampire just makes things more interesting.

I read the book and watched the original film before seeing this
adaptation. Even so, I ended up twisting in my seat the whole film. I
couldn't find a single dull moment. The whole theater was ewwing and
awwing and giggling. 

This film has its flaws, but it's very emotionally affecting
nonetheless. It's thrilling and disturbing, and as real as a film can
be. I can't wait to watch it again.

- Compared w/ the First Film Adaptation -

I say it's better than the original because more time is spent on the
principle characters and the changes tend to make the story more
believable.

I prefer the acting and cinematography of the original film, but
overall I think this is the best film adaptation anyone could hope for.
<|_=00=_|>
A life as a companion and living on the run is better than living
without love. This is a film for the bullied and unwanted children in
our world. The roles portrayed were executed with honesty by all actors
involved. The director was clever in not showing the mother's face for
very long and we never see the father. The poor lad is left pretty much
alone to face the cold, wintry world without a single friend. Then
comes the new girl. She seems as utterly sad and alone as he..... and
she is. It was refreshing to see how their chemistry blended and
bloomed. The only fault I found was the CG attack scenes. That was
unbelievable for me. I would have portrayed a vampire as having total
control and with slow, deliberate moves. Imagine a fiend that would
regard his next meal with detached urgency. That would be much more
scary. After all is said I believe that this film will be regarded on
it's own as a good love story although with some mayhem and gore that
makes a fine cocktail to patiently consider as a film thats heads's
above many other horror films .
<|_=00=_|>
Let Me In is a Hollywood remake of the Swedish version of the film Let
the Right One In, that is based on the book. A lot of reviews on this
website consist of the audience comparing the remake to the original
having seen both. Well I haven't, but this looked liked an interesting
film and I went to see only this afternoon at my local cinema. I
thought this would be a good film but my expectations weren't
exceedingly high and I was glad in a way as by the end it made me
appreciate all the more for that reason.

As soon as the first scene comes up I was intrigued and my attention
never wavered from the screen throughout the running time of the whole
105 minutes of the movie (minus the credits). The basic story consists
of a lonely and bullied 12 year old boy Owen (Kodi Smit-McPhee) whose
parents are getting divorced, whilst at school he is bullied by Kenny
(Dylan Minnette) and his two friends Mark and Donald. Meanwhile a 12
year old girl Abby (Chloe Moretz) and her father/guardian (Richard
Jenkins) move in to Owen next door. Soon they strike up a friendship as
a unique bond forms between them, but she appears strange, at one point
Owen tells her she smells bad and despite it being winter with snow on
the ground, she often goes outside in the courtyard of the flats they
live in to see him barefoot without any shoes, but dosen't feel the
cold. There is a reason as she has a terrible secret of being a vampire
where her father goes out and kills innocent strangers to obtain their
blood so she can survive and eventually Owen becomes entangled up in
everything when he finds out her secret and he stays with her despite
knowing the truth. 

This is a fantastic film from start to finish, it's beautifully made
with a very bleak atmosphere. The cinematography gorgeously enforces
this. It cleverly mirrors the loneliness the two children feel in their
lives, Owen who is bullied with no friends and parents who are on a
verge of divorce and Abby who is also socially isolated due to being a
vampire along with her father who is torn at helping her but wanting to
give up. This film takes an intelligent insight into two kids with
fractured souls who fit together in a unique and unexplained way of
being whole. The friendship that blossoms between them is wonderfully
depicted and builds up in a believable pace. This is due to
surprisingly excellent performances from McPhee and Moretz who perform
a terrific job of capturing the essence of their characters and
radiating a very mature presence on the screen, which is an incredible
accomplishment. They are so superb that they put some of the adult
actors I know to shame. Due to these terrific performances the
chemistry is superb and it's a wonder to see them touch each others
hands, hug one another or kiss on the cheek. This makes you feel for
their predicament as you come to care about the characters and realise
Owen will do anything to protect and be with Abby as they care about
each other so much. 

The supporting performances like Richard Jenkins and Dylan Minnette is
great and they deserved to be mentioned. Jenkins gives surprising depth
at feeling torn at helping Abby, particularly in a heartbreaking scene
when she touches his face as she can see the weight bearing on him of
what he does and Minnette perfectly portrays the menacing bully who
also in a way is like a lost soul just like Abby and Owen when you see
him being bullied by his older brother, which partly explains why he is
so mean to others like Owen. 

Director Matt Reeves has done also a sensational job on striking a
precise balance between the tone of the film where we feel disgusted
and scared at how Abby is, what she is doing, but also saddened by her
and Owen's predicament and moved in a happy and sad way by the
friendship between her and Owen. This is helped by the lovely music by
Michael Gucchino who uses it effectively at the perfect time when Owen
and Abby spend time together.

The dialogue and script is good too, particularly the facial
expressions McPhee and Moretz make. The special effects of when you see
Abby's face contorted when she eats is brilliant as it is terrifying.
Also it is beautifully shot with some interesting camera shots. For
example we never see Owen's mother's face, which I don't know if anyone
else noticed was intriguing. It certainly got me thinking that even
with his mum, Owen feels truly alone and the (whether intentional or
not) never seeing his mum's face could depict the further isolation he
also feels from his own family and that she isn't really there in
Owen's world as it's just him and Abby. 

Matt Reeves has to be commended for a stupendous achievement of making
a film that is beautifully made and can connect with the audience on a
emotional level. I first saw Chloe Moretz acting in (500) Days of
Summer and Kick-ass. She was terrific in that and she has grown since
then and is turning into a superb and mature young actress. Kodi
Smit-McPhee from The Road, which I saw him in earlier this year I found
to be an engaging young actor, with lots of potential and it's lovely
to see him continue to fulfil that. This connected to me on every level
and has become one of my favourite movies of this year and though it
may not receive Oscars, it certainly deserves to be nominated. I am
very pleased with the IMDb rating on here. Let Me In has a powerful
resonant that radiates to it's audience, I'm glad I let this film in.
Absolutely incredible.
