
Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is exactly the kind of horror movie you
want to hate. It's a remake, it involves a child in peril, and it
contains some (and I say "some") very nasty violence. Just
watch--you'll have trouble hating it.

Guillermo del Toro's new collaborative effort with first-time director
Troy Nixey is, simply put, horror done right. There's a lot here that
can be found in any horror movie that comes out now, but this one
succeeds for relying on tone and setting rather than blood and guts.
The acting from all three leads is surprisingly good, and Nixey shines
as well behind the camera.

However, at the heart of the film is a ballsy story co-written by del
Toro that really keeps the film stable. Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is
originally based on a 1973 British TV movie that has been hailed as one
of the scariest movies ever made. The remake features a new main
character: Sally, a child, played by Bailee Madison. Sally moves into a
new Gothic mansion with her father (Guy Pearce) and a new stepmother
(Katie Holmes). There, she discovers a ventilation system where she
hears breathy voices calling to play with her. At first, the voices are
friendly. Then, they're vicious and violent.

The violence of the movie is one of the reasons why this movie succeeds
so nicely. The first scene is grisly and is, without a doubt, the
reason why Don't Be Afraid of the Dark earned its R-rating rather than
its intended PG-13. There isn't constant violence. In fact, there isn't
even that much of it. Most of it is bloodless, but all of it is enough
to make us squeamish and afraid.

Another area in which the movie excels in that respect is its design.
The mansion that Nixey and del Toro chose is gorgeous. The intense
lighting, which Nixey noted as "inspired by Rembrandt" in the Q&A
following the film, is moody and adds to the heavy tone of the movie.
The house is just creepy on its own, but it becomes creepier thanks to
the creature design. Unlike what the trailer tells you, the creatures
are pretty tiny. What creeped me out about them was the loud, shrill
screeches they let out. It'll give you chills. Keep a keen ear and
listen for del Toro, as he voices a few of the creatures.

Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is a very fun and very creepy horror movie
experience. Though not without its flaws, it has a strong story
stabilized by good characters and a surprisingly dark ending, and it's
got some good acting too. It's hard not to be absorbed in the
mesmerizing light pools of the mansion, and it's even harder not to be
entertained. As usual in del Toro films, darkness and unseen monsters
reign, and as usual, it's pretty damn unnerving.
<|_=00=_|>
Pros: beautiful scenery/sets, a few good jumps, and about 5-10 minutes
of eerie atmosphere 

Cons: not very scary, too much CGI'd gremlins, and a very
predictable/slow plot

Conclusion: rent the original and skip this remake

The much anticipated, by me, remake of the 1973 made for TV movie of
the same name left me feeling extremely disappointed. The plot was
fairly simple. A young girl Sally (Bailee Madison) moves in with her
father Alex (Guy Pearce) and his girlfriend Kim (Katie Holmes), into a
house Alex and Kim are fixing up to sell. Soon upon arriving,
adventurous Sally discovers the house has a basement and that the
family is not alone. The basement's fireplace is inhabited by little
CGI'd creatures that terrorize the family, especially Sally. The actors
I felt all did an adequate job playing their parts, especially young
Sally (Bailee Madison), who played a convincingly cynical little girl
fed up with being 'sold' by her mother to live with her father. Overall
the movie was very predictable and offered very few scary moments. The
creatures from the original, people dressed in little goblin costumes,
were sparingly showed. I think it was way more effective than the
over-shown little gremlins in this movie, which looked to me like
Chihuahuas that could speak. Save your money and skip this one!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is totally inept. It's one of those films where the
characters behave so stupidly you can't believe it. Every scene is a
horror film cliché. As for horror, there is none. Some of the scenes
are so darkly lit you cannot tell what is going on and I have a feeling
the cinematographer did not know what he was doing. As for the script,
plot holes abound. Things happen and then are dropped. Characters pop
in the movie and are never seen again. One scene will suffice. SPOILER:
The grounds keeper is attacked by the creatures with screwdrivers and
box cutters, he staggers up the stairs, falls face down on the floor in
front of his wife and the little girl. When the husband comes home, the
man's wife tells him that her husband has had an "accident". No one
asks how he had an "accident" with a screwdriver stuck into his eye and
a pair of scissors in his shoulder. I was really disappointed with this
movie. I would say save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about the plot of the "Don't Be Afraid Of The Dark"
remake, I was disappointed that they decided to add the unnecessary
element of a child to the story. Ironically, the portrayal of the
daughter by Bailee Madison was one of the few highlights this movie had
to offer. With all the creepy Gothic imagery, spiderwebs and shadows,
this movie failed to create any of the suspense generated by the fairly
moderate surroundings of the original. The CGI demons were absolutely
ridiculous, and with complete certainty I can state that the raisin-
faced-doll demons of the 40-year-old original TV movie were much
creepier. Katie Holmes, although likable, must be one of the world's
worst actresses, unable of conjuring up any emotion other then a perky
turned up nose for all occasions. It is truly remarkable to see her
constantly upstaged by the child actress in this film who forces you to
believe everything she is feeling. I can only recommend this as a
starter horror film for young children, or background TV while you pay
your bills online - you won't miss anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Well. Where to start?

This is a film that starts badly, and save two relatively well executed
scenes, gets worse. If you have seen the original seventies TV movie
you will be sorely disappointed. What made the original frightening was
the bareness of the plot, the ordinariness of the location and the
bleakness of the ending. All of these elements have been removed. The
story is over written, the location of overly ornate, and the ending,
although quite nasty, is not as disturbing as it should have been. Add
to this the frankly deplorable CGI and iffy direction. Well...

The kid is good though (that's where the 4 points comes from)

Verdict: Don't be afraid of avoiding don't be afraid of the dark
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer for Don't be afraid of the Dark a few months ago and
really wanted to see it, I begged my boyfriend but as always he makes
fun of the fact how much I love horror movies and didn't take me. So I
had to wait for the rental and now I actually find myself thanking him
that we didn't waste our money on this stupid movie. I love haunted
house stories, I think since Paranormal Activity, everyone has had
their eyes back on that genre of horror. So naturally comes a remake
from the 70's comes along that was a haunting child horror story and
let's make it the most ridicules looking thing you'll ever see in your
life.

In Blackwood Manor eight-year old Sally Hurst arrives in Rhode Island
to live with her father Alex and his girlfriend Kim, both restoring it
to put it on the market for their client Mr. Jacoby. Sally is depressed
due to her mother forcefully putting her in Alex's care. On the first
night of her stay, Sally is given a carousel-styled nightlight, the
melodious tune it plays awakening the creatures in the ash pit. The
next day, Sally wanders the grounds and finds the hidden basement's
skylight. However, one of the workman restoring the house, Mr. Harris,
warns her, Alex and Kim not to venture into the basement, although they
do regardless. Sally takes interest in the sealed fireplace where she
hears the creatures calling her name, and follows the mysterious
voices. They are now haunting her and will do anything to get her down
into the dark.

Where to start with the plot holes in this movie? The creatures are
supposedly scared of light yet can walk through a party where there is
light everywhere and somehow they could make it under the table? Then
how is it that the handy man is attacked by these creatures, getting
stabbed all over the place, including the scissors in his shoulder and
when the maid comes in he says he had an accident! How you explain that
one? The tool box just exploded? Of course you have the cliché where
the father doesn't believe his daughter despite numerous episodes of
her screaming hysterically that there are things attacking her and then
his girlfriend tells him to listen but that's not enough apparently.

They also show a lot of these little monsters that are just laughable,
I'm sorry but they did not terrify me in the least little bit. You step
on them, they're little bugs, no big deal. They don't have any super
powers, they have to convince children to follow them with stupid
little faces so naturally as an adult this is just stupid. They don't
fly, don't hypnotize people, don't have super strength, so it's just
lame. The ending didn't make any sense what so ever. The only thing I
could give the film credit too is that the atmosphere was creepy. The
sets were amazing and did give a good way to give little chills here
and there. Also when Sally looks under her sheet to see what creeped
under, that was a pretty frightening scene if it wasn't for the silly
CGI effects. But it wasn't enough to save the movie sadly. I was really
looking forward to this movie, but it was a total let down, it's not
scary or enjoyable and honestly after I'm done writing this review I'll
probably forget about this movie.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the very creepy and scary commercials on TV, I was finally
persuaded (after much resistance) by my friends to go see this movie. I
should have put up more of a fuss because after watching it, all I can
say is I want that 1:45 min of my life back. The couple next to me left
halfway through the movie...I should have gone with them. The most
entertaining part of this film was the audience's reaction to how bad
and cheesy it was. I frighten very easily but nothing about this movie
is scary (unless of course you count the preview for Dream House they
showed before the feature....now that scared me!!) 

The movie had potential....the opening scene with the old man and the
maid had me intrigued and I was looking forward to a good scare. It
didn't follow through and I was left disappointed. Once they introduced
the creatures the movie became laughable...literally. Every time they
appeared on the screen most of the audience laughed. Their erratic
behaviour and odd screaming reminded me too much of the 80's movie
Gremlins....which I'm sure scared me back then....but I was also 7 at
the time.

If you're looking for a movie that will chill you to the bone, do
yourselves a favour and skip this one. I gave this a 2 out of 10 only
because of the little girl's acting during the 'frightening' scenes.
While the other actors fell way short, for the most part her fear
seemed genuine.
<|_=00=_|>
The scenery of the film is breath-taking. The house is exquisite, and
as always, del Toro does an immaculate job creating an ominous and
foreboding mood. The scares in this movie are well thought out and are
not the cheap thrills Hollywood has come to depend on, and the film did
a good job building momentum.

However, that being said, the plot and its lack of logicality stop the
film dead in its tracks. The stupidity of the film goes beyond the
typical, "No, don't go in there!" that one typically expects in a
horror film. The ridiculousness of the characters' actions makes this
film frustrating and near impossible to appreciate. 

I saw this film because I love "haunted house" films, I'm an old Katie
Holmes fan from her Dawson's Creek Days, and I think Bailee Madison is
adorable, and therefore, I'm awarding one point for each redeeming
quality in the movie - 1) awesome scenery, 2) Katie Holmes, and 3)
Bailee Madison.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie looked promising from what I saw in the trailers. Little
creatures running around, mainly unseen. The part in the trailer where
the thing jumps at you from under the sheets, unfortunately, that's the
only "jumpy" part in the movie. The rest of the movie? Well, we see the
scares coming. The movie literally shows you where the creatures are in
the house, and the room, before the "scary" part happens. We watch them
run behind a teddy bear. They then move the bear's arms and have it say
"I love you," which is what it normally says without help. Then they
push it off the shelf. When the girl is taking a bath, we watch the
creatures run up to the tub. We then see them on the rim of the tub
walking slowly up to her, with her watching them. Eerie feeling?
Slightly. Scared? Nope. Remember the first Alien movie? Remember it was
scary because you didn't see the creature until the end. That's the
format this movie should have followed. You saw the little things so
many times, and not just their eyes. You got to see exactly what they
look like standing still towards the beginning of the movie. That takes
the creepiness out of whatever's stalking you. These little things use
tools that are lying around as "weapons." They apparently can't hurt
you with their own powers. It kind of reminds you of Puppet Master. As
far as story. Very little. There isn't a "shocking" ending nor is there
any kind of emotional attachment to the characters. I found myself
actually praying that the little girl would end up being taken away by
the little creatures. I also couldn't help but hate the father, and
step-mother, because of their refusal to do anything about their
daughter seeing things. When the step-mother, Katie Holmes, finally
believes the little girl, she agrees that they must leave the house,
but decides that it will be the next morning, because the dinner party
can't be put off. This movie is only worth renting if you are planning
on having a lot of people over, and adding your own dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't read everyone's review here but I did get to zadaw's review. I
completely agree with everything you pointed out! Here's some of my own
to add to yours...

Spoiler Alert!! 

1. OK so when Sally went into the basement to unscrew the RUSTED bolts
from the furnace; this is just comedy because there is no way in hell
she is able to unscrew those rusted bolts! Especially with an
adjustable wrench! Im guessing she's anywhere between 60-70lbs, she's
going to need a whole lot more than elbow grease to unscrew those two
bolts! 

2. Bath scene; how the hell did those gremlins get inside the medicine
cabinet? Did they magically appear inside it? Sally is smart enough to
use a wrench to unscrew some bolts, and yet she doesn't have the common
sense to turn the damn lights back on? Plus, did the water magically
disappear from the bath tub or did she imagine taking a bath the whole
time? WTF!!! 

3. Dinner; did the guy sitting next to Sally not notice that something
was pulling Sally's napkin from under the table? When she ran out of
the dining room, everyone had their full attention on her and yet NO
ONE saw the little gremlin running a few feet away from her? And when
she was in the library getting harassed by these little creatures, I
guess it never occurred to her to turn the damn lights on?! And yet,
she knows that they hate lights! Good god! 

4. 24hr sun? WTF??!! OK did anyone who was involved in making this film
not notice that in almost all or maybe all (don't remember) of the
scenes where Sally was sleeping or when it was taking place at night
that there was daylight shining in through the windows? Take for
example the last scene, it was nighttime raining with thunderstorms.
The little creatures killed the power and you see a shot of the entire
house in full darkness and yet, when Kate fell down the stairs and when
the little creatures were dragging Sally down the stairs, did all the
freaking staff fell asleep while this scene was being filmed? Someone
kill me! 

5. Kim falling down the stairs! C'mon, she fell down a few flight of
stairs and yet she couldn't move and passed out? Ridiculous, I've
fallen 10ft from a tree with only grass to break my fall and I got up
and walked away fine! Oh wait, that's not all, she was WALKING down the
stairs, there is no way in hell that piece of wire is going to make a
cut that deep nor should it have, and to make matters worse she was
wearing a pair of jeans! The worst thing that could've happen was this,
she tripped, fell, used her hands to break her fall, rolled down the
stairs, got up! Wow! 

6. Rushing to get out; OK so WTF??!! Both Kim and Alex knew Sally was
in trouble, and what was the first thing you see them grab? LOL! No,
not Sally but a pillow and blanket! Wow, the kid is in danger, yet the
pillow and a blanket seems to be of more importance to them! 

7. The little creatures were struggling to drag Sally (remember
60-70lbs) into the basement, yet when Kim cut Sally loose from the
rope, did the rope magically wrap around Kim's injured leg? And did the
little creatures somehow magically got super little creature strength
and manage to break her leg while the rope was magically wrapped around
it? Causing her to be dragged into the furnace? Oh wait, and here's
what kills me, when Alex rushed down the flight of stairs into the
furnace, he as a full view of what was taking place below, and yet,
when he rushed below how the hell did he not notice that Kim was in the
furnace? This move is totally worthless! 

If you guys want to see some real horror movies check out Insidious,
Lake Mungo, or Grave Encounters, any of those are a million times
better than this piece of junk!
