
Hercules and chums are mercenaries, pressed into service for Lord Cotys
to put down a rebel uprising which looks likely to overthrow the
throne.

The trailer teases this movie as being a myths and monsters movie: it
isn't. It's a fairly routine swords and sandals actioner, and the
mythical critters teased in the trailer all come before the opening
title, and are either tall tales depicted, or things seen unclearly
from a distance. What is left is a rather dark film with a lot of
battle action, pitched uneasily at a level which is too graphic for
family viewing and not graphic enough for those who like blood and
dismemberment.

There is a single F word - unnecessary and out of place.

Dwayne Johnson does this stuff well - he looks good, has great physical
presence and, even when the part is somewhat darker than usual, he
remains very likable. The supporting cast are all quite good - it was
interesting to see Rufus Sewell playing a goodie for once (kind of like
a young Ian McShane even though McShane was also in the film, with all
the best moments of humour), and John Hurt gets to play both ends of
the spectrum, meek and scenery-chewing.

I quite liked this - it is certainly a lot better than this year's
previous Hercules offering - but felt that it was a missed opportunity:
they promised me monsters and then didn't deliver them!
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people went into this movie with expectations that this would
follow the mythology, and I think that's what let them down. However,
as an artistic representation of not only the myths, but a possible
truth behind the myths, this was an entertaining watch.

I'm only vaguely familiarly with the mythology, but I know enough to
know the way it was represented. This film represents that mythology in
a different way - more genuinely believable, and less fantastic - but
blends the original mythos in in a way I found very interesting. A lot
can be forgiven for an intelligent, new look at an old story, and I
don't think this film needs to be forgiven very much at all.

The story was fairly well rounded with a some light/moderate complexity
to it which was nice, and it was much less far-fetched than I thought
it would be. The acting was - in general - excellent, with only one or
two instances where I thought it was a bit too cheesy or overdone.

Dwayne Johnson was fantastic; having seen him in several films I was
expecting a less solemn, more caricatured, performance. But he was
excellent, and I have gained a little more respect for him as a serious
actor (though I wouldn't cast him outside head-bashing quite yet).

Overall an underrated movie in my opinion, and definitely worth a watch
if you like a good story.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, the film has a slow start. We see almost motion comic footage
of Hercules doing his 12 labours in slideshow form, with Hercules face
hidden in silhouette. So I felt a little cheated. Then we have a scene
which tries to set up what makes this version of the main character
different than any other version we have seen before. I wont give it
away, as its basically what the film is about. But it tries to play
with our knowledge of him. 

It doesn't ignore the back story of his wife and kids, but glosses over
those parts until it becomes necessary to divulge that information.
Again, i think it would have been better to see it, rather than be told
what happened. I knew his history and so was wondering if they would
portray this properly. Instead they do something to set-up a villain
for the end which I wont give away. Just know that they do tie up all
lose ends as needed, but a prior knowledge of who this character is and
what he has done does help the viewer understand his motivations and
his life up to this point.

Its when the big war starts that you really sit up and start paying
attention. Somehow watching the Rock talk doesn't interest you, but
when the fighting starts with the epic 200 people battle sequences, you
suddenly see where the budget went, the fights are fantastic!

What is really great is how Hercules and his band of merry men (and
woman) use smarts to outwit the enemy rather than simply use strength
each time. That was clever. From the moment of that first fight the
film moves up a notch and becomes excellent entertainment. 

Its a historical film and tries to be serious about its overall
message. Dwayne does a good job but he's not going to win any awards
for this. The other cast members actions are predictable and
sufficient. But don't really add much to the plot. They could have been
written out and it would have changed nothing. 

The running length is long enough to feel satisfied and not so long
that it overstays its welcome. The plot twists you see coming a mile
away but at least it tries to do them. Other than one characters
actions near the end which was so obvious it was stupid to include.

In conclusion, its worth watching. It takes it times to grab you, but
once it does it doesn't let go. There are a few stretches of how strong
Hercules is, but not enough for you to hate it. The 3D has its moments,
but like most films I would rather have watched it in 2D as I don't
think it made a major difference and its more comfortable not having to
wear those glasses with my head upright the entire time.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Hercules with little to no expectations. The main reason
was that I needed some cheesy summer flick to laugh at, and the movie's
trailer did promise this kind of stuff. Well, the movie did not
disappoint - indeed, it was cheesy, but in such a self-aware way, that
it falls out of the "so bad that it's good" category and gets into the
"simply good" one. Irony is dominant through the whole 98 minutes, and
there are plenty of minor and major plot twists, albeit not a single
forced one. And the story is delivered in an entertaining way without
any unnecessary melodrama or heroism - a nice change from most of
Hollywood big-budget action flicks.

The movie opens directly with the story of Hercules and the twelve
labours. We see him battle the Lernaean Hydra, slay the Erymanthian
Boar, and kill the Nemean Lion with bare hands - and that's in the
first two minutes. Just when you'd think this flick would be nothing
but Dwayne Johnson, bare-chested and tough, slaughtering stuff, it's
revealed that the narrator is actually the nephew of Hercules,
exaggerating the story of his uncle, trying to convince a bunch of
pirates not to execute him by putting a stake through his bottoms.
There are plenty of similar absurd situations in the movie, and there's
never a pun to fall flat.

Character-wise, "Hercules" offers more than a bunch of heroes with big
muscles and tear-jerking back-stories. While Hercules' family being
murdered plays somewhat big part in the movie, the drama never feels
forced (if anything, it actually feels a bit underwhelming). Also, I do
have problems with Atalanta being the typical strong female action
character but this isn't as much of a drawback - just something that
could've been improved. All actors, from the cheesy Johnson and Fiennes
to veteran John Hurt, reprise their roles in a great, fleshed-out way.
The main antagonist of "Hercules" is indeed portrayed a wee bit
over-the-top, but after all this is a comic adaptation and that's the
proper way to portray comic villains.

The story doesn't disappoint either, presenting Hercules as a man with
incredible strength who enjoys the rumors of him being the son of Zeus
while being self-aware that he's still a mercenary who is most likely
born to a mortal father. The legend of Hercules itself plays a large
part in the story, and serves for a source of great jokes and puns.
There's a major plot twist that I honestly didn't see coming, and
neither did any of my friends with whom I saw the movie. "Hercules"
receives bonus points for NOT including the obligatory love interest,
and there's actually a reason for the main character to return for the
final act (other than "he's the hero and it's heroes' job to safe the
day").

Unlike most fantasy action-adventures, "Hercules" uses special effects
sparsely and mostly for the scenery. Apart from the opening sequence,
Hercules never has to battle absurdly huge foes or mythical creatures.
The only moment he's fighting a CGI enemy did actually leave me a bit
disappointed, but it was still OK. The writers creatively decided to go
against the "overpowered supernatural creatures" cliché and instead
opted for a huge army of ordinary men. It does emphasize Hercules'
superhuman strength a lot more when you see a horse being thrown into
the air, instead of a harpy or the minotaur being slain.

All in all, "Hercules" is a great movie to spend ten bucks on this
summer. It doesn't break the boundaries of modern fantasy adventure
flicks, but it does go against a lot of the tropes and clichés. It
delivers an entertaining story while being self-aware of its own
cheesiness. While I'm not familiar with the source material, "Hercules"
does remind a little bit of "Asterix and Obelix" and provides solid 98
minutes of pure Hollywood entertainment, comedy and carnage.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Look, I know going into a Brett Ratner film starring The Rock as
Hercules shouldn't have expectations high, but I expected more from
this. Right from the start of the film we are immersed into a world
without character development and rushed story telling. 

The action scenes are all very well shot (by PG-13 standards) but
everything else is subpar. Besides Dwayne Johnson most performers range
from hammy to awkward, and the special effects are nothing special. 

If you are capable of 100% turning your brain off, I'm talking
Transformers level, you may be able to enjoy this film. But all others
need not give this myth any more life.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was a real surprise to me. I was expecting something that was
a cross between Kevin Sorbo's TV show and Wrath of the Titans. But the
producers chose a completely different direction for this re-telling.
Aside from the shorts at the beginning we see no monsters. Nor do we
see beautiful gods and goddesses. Hercules' greatest enemy in this
story is the very real (and human) threat of betrayal and treachery.
And rather than a one man- show, we see Hercules aided by a band of
loyal friends who are every bit as skilled as the demigod. The film
raises the question what is more important: what others believe of you
or what you believe about yourself? The film has a bevy of great actors
including John Hurt, Ian McShane and Rufus Sewell and I think Dwayne
Johnson is perfect for the main role.
<|_=00=_|>
For those wanting a 'genuine' mythology Hercules; this is not the movie
for you. For those wanting a dark and realistic take on Hercules; this
is not really the movie for you. For those hoping for popcorn fare, a
little gory for a ten year old but just about right for a 13 or 14 year
old, for those hoping for solid acting performances, well-choreographed
fight scenes, and pretty high production values, then this is your
show. And it's got a strong positive message that even those put off by
the occasional splash of blood, the fleeting glimpse of bare female
bottom, or the single comic use of the 'F' word would agree is
something the American public occasionally needs to hear. Is it sort of
formulaic? Yeah. So what? There are plenty of formulaic movies that
have risen above stereotype into archetype. This isn't one of them, but
it was worth the price of admission and the time spent. I'm glad
Johnson got this movie done, and glad that I watched it.
<|_=00=_|>
Grettings from Lithuania.

"Hercules" (2014) is entertaining pop corn flick from start till
finish. Turn your brain off and enjoy it. It has cool action, bigger
than life Dwayne Johnson as Hercules and good supporting stuff. I was
laughing each time regarding running gag about Ian McShane death -
funny stuff. This flick is miles better than bad movie that came out
also this year "The Legend of Hercules", skip this one and watch
"Hercules" instead - it's not the best summer movie of this year, but
it's worth spending 90 min. on evening with some friends and beer.

Overall, "Hercules" isn't great art, it's not even very memorable
popcorn flick, but it does it job well for while it last, it entertains
you - not in the most sophisticated way to the least, but it's a fun
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello fellow movie lovers. This review contains spoilers.

The trailers I saw for this movie made me believe it was going to focus
on Hercules and his legendary battles with monsters from his labors.

However, they quickly gloss over those monsters in the first few
minutes, then say "this is the story of the real Hercules," and the
movie doesn't contain any Gods, magic, mythological beasts, or demi
gods. Instead, the movie says there was only a man, a mercenary, who
happen to have people spread myths and legends. That he also was never
alone, but pretty much always had the backing of his friends in battle.

As a huge fan of Greek mythology, I went to the theatre expecting what
the trailer advertised, and was hijinxed by another "Brothers Grimm"
that didn't even make up for it by adding some magic later, but left
one wanting... The story was way too easy to call as well. I'd love to
have seen another "Brothers Grimm" after seeing its value upon
rewatching, but if they make a sequel to this Hercules, I think I'll
pull an Autolycus, only I won't be returning.

Only surprise to me, was them chaining up the "animal" at night because
he suffers PTSD, then having him unchained at night in another scene
helping Hercules with his "ptsd." Pretty sure they just missed the
error but it still made no sense.

All in all, I gave it a 4/10 because it was watchable and had some nice
action. The advertising for this movie lost it a few points alone since
it wasn't what was advertised, the acting was OK but who in their right
mind would ever have cast the baker who moved to Germany in "How I Met
Your Mother" as a fighter...also her scenes seemed like they just
wanted to add a Legolas character as well as a female to the ensemble
of characters. I love Atalanta, but wow what a waste of her myth.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of the Mythology of Hercules in any way, shape or form
and expect to see it in this film, you will be sorely disappointed.
This film has pulled a complete "World-War-Z" and left absolutely
EVERYTHING about the original mythology out except for the fact that it
is called "Hercules". 

But what about all that awesome trailer footage? You know, of Hercules
and his amazing feats of heroism? Surprise! Nothing but trailer fodder
that is all over in the first 2 minutes of the film. The main focus and
theme of the film is how Hercules is NOT the Hercules from myth and
legend. So right off the bat the trailer has straight up lied to you. 

But don't worry, what they leave out from the actual mythology of
Hercules they more than make up for in plot points that are VERY
BLATANTLY stolen from every other medieval/ancient era epic film made
in the last 20 years. Everything from beginning the film with the ever
popular "you think you know the story of Hercules? Here's the REAL
story of Hercules" narrative, to timeless cliché classics like
"sidekick leaves due to differing views but returns during climactic
battle to save the day". 

Even if you aren't looking for a true-to-its-roots Hercules movie, this
movie is so completely generic you could substitute just about any
other epic of the same genre and you'd swear it was the same movie.
Right down to the costumes and battle sequences. The story is painfully
predictable, the jokes are hammy and don't fit the tone of the genre,
the characters are stock, wooden and forgettable, the fight scenes are
boring, the action is unsatisfying.

Bottom line, if you aren't a Hercules fan looking for actual Hercules
action then you'll be less disappointed than I, but I would still
recommend skipping it and saving your money by simply watching
Troy/Braveheart/Kingdom of Heaven/Beowulf/Robin Hood/300 instead; the
experience will be the same, I promise. However, if you have ever
enjoyed the mythology of Hercules and want to see some of it brought to
life then this is not the film for you. It is the cinematic equivalent
of biting into a chocolate chip cookie only to find out they're
actually raisins.
