
Awesome true story about the escape of Russian pilots after being taken
hostage by the Taliban in 1996. Played superbly by all the actors with
amazing realism, all the characters seem very real, each with their own
way of dealing with fear and the unknown. The actors who played the
Taliban are also so realistic you almost feel you are watching a
documentary. From the moment the crew decided to trust each other, act
together and try to escape to the end the tension builds up to the
point where you are on the edge of your seat, heart pounding, willing
for them to make it and saying it out loud. And because it all really
happened it makes it all the more powerful. The setting is so
realistic, you feel the atmosphere of the place, can almost smell the
air, touch the sand, feel the flames, hear the sound of the engines.
Absolutely superb.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually it's a documentary action movie. And a stressful one though
you can wait for a happy end just like in "Flight of the Phoenix"
(2004). Good make-up, good playing showing a war-time situation. Baluev
did an outstanding job. Sound could be better, sometimes you even can't
clearly hear the whispers of the heroes. The story takes place in a
part of Afghanistan under Taliban control. Some moments of murder
remind us that war is taking place there. This movie teaches that if
you have an aim you must go to the end, otherwise you lose. And if you
are a little group in surrounding of a majority, you should keep
together. It's a very brutal movie, very truthful and realistic.
<|_=00=_|>
the title could be the entire review content. because "Kandagar" is
brilliant example of precise realism, impressive atmosphere, importance
to each detail, admirable way to build the tension, smart made of
dialogues and the science to use the viewer as part of a story. it is a
story of survive. like many others. but unique. not only for the status
of real case but for the high art to translate it on the screen with
wisdom. and this impose it as one of the extraordinary stories.
because, against many American films about similar theme, this movie
reflects a coherent and admirable story. in cold colors. with
impeccable art.
<|_=00=_|>
root - a real fact. a Russian plain is arrested on Kandahar airport.
aircraft craw is prisoner of Talibans. the plant - desire of survive,
conflicts with Afgans, fear, hope, memories, barefooted football match.
fruit - force of each as part of a powerful team. it can be, at first
sigh, a propaganda film. or an action film. in fact, it is only lesson
about values. sure, Manicheic nuances no missing. but it is not a fight
against good vs. bad guys. it is only slice from a war of others. and
honest images about reactions of few prisoners. it is a film like a
piece of plasticine. each viewer gives its verdict. because, each
interpretation is correct. important - it remains a good film,
regardless the public image about its subject.
<|_=00=_|>
It is a very decent movie/documentary. Void of unnecessary drama.
Interesting tale, and one can relate to the story. There's a feel good
tinge to it. There isn't the usual unnecessary gore associated with
films of this genre. The visual effects were quite good too, sound
could do with some help. Predictable ending but its one of those flicks
you keep on watching though you know how it ends. Its nice to see the
portrayal of the antagonists in a more subtle yet compelling light.I
watched it in Russian which I do not understand, but was still worth my
time. Enjoyed it, but will not watch it more than twice. I recommend
it.
