
Just Saw this Film at an advanced screening in Long Beach.

Battle: Los Angeles is the tale of Staff Sargeant Nantz' last day as a
marine. Without spelling it out or drawing a diagram, the audience and
the marine platoon we are following, are immediately deployed into Los
Angeles for reasons they do not know. Soon we learn that indeed Aliens
are landing off the shore of LA and killing everyone on the beach. The
platoon we are following is sent on a mission to get some survivors
from a gas station several miles from the coast. Generic movie ensues.

The film is shot like Bourne with epilepsy. I'm 21 years old and not
too old to follow the action on screen, its just really, really,
annoying when 80% of the shots are extremely herky jerky close-ups.
There is not a single steady shot in the entire film. Not one. The
intensity of the effect wears off right after the first alien is
killed. After that the movie spiralled downhill deep, deep into the
realm of the cliché. I'm going to name a few character's roles that are
in this film, see if you can recognize them from other films you've
seen. Experienced, hardened leader who gets a new platoon. Young
officer straight out of officer's school who can't handle the action.
Bad ass chick who can shoot. Soft and sweet nurse who gets picked up
along the way. An Asian guy, a black guy, a white dude from the south,
and a rookie make up the main part of the platoon. There is a scene
where tension is high and its just a damn dog making noise. Start to
see where this is going? This movie had some good things going for it.
Its use of silence was well done. The blasting boom of the gunshots
were startlingly realistic. The alien spacecrafts are awesome. The
aliens themselves are pretty cool. Its just that the screenplay is
terrible. SOOOOOO cliché in every way. This is your standard war movie
just with Aliens. The ending is just as cliché as the rest of the film.
Don't fool yourself into thinking it will actually be difficult to beat
the aliens. 0 thought involved.

Hopefully Mr. Liebesman has better luck with the final product of Clash
2 than he did with this. Everyone I saw the movie with thought it was
pretty bad. Movies like this that I totally enjoyed: District 9,
Cloverfield, Avatar (somewhat), City of God (cinematography) and
Blackhawk Down. All much, much better than this.

District 9 and the Bourne Identity had a really stupid baby.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie made Skyline look good! Maybe I missed a key part while I
was completely baffled that this is the movie they decided to make when
they had millions of dollars to spend. Why? Completely predictable, a
cast of characters nobody cares about, and we're required to suspend
belief time after time just to move the story along.

Aliens arrive and invade, but it's OK, they don't have air support. How
did they get here then? They have very advanced weapons, but apparently
have spent no time learning to aim. It takes lots and lots of bullets
to kill the aliens at first, but after a while just one will make them
explode. And any time our marines make a significant kill, all action
stops so they can Hoo Raa each other and dance a bit. Nevermind the
firefight, the aliens will wait.

Add in shaky camera work and this mess was virtually unwatchable. Maybe
I still have a well developed attention span, so I need more than 10
minutes of action, some filler, 15 minutes of action, more filler,
action, filler, lather rinse repeat end.

It's movies like this where I think we should be able to ask for
refunds! Maybe punitive damages!
<|_=00=_|>
Poor character development and a worn out storyline make this a very
forgettable film. I really didn't care who or when the next death would
be. I probably wouldn't mind as much if at least one of the characters
had been an annoying ass but it seems everyone was a hero, which ends
up making nobody the hero.

I had no sense of dread from the alien invaders. In fact, if they had
changed the aliens to an invading human army I think the film would
have worked better. For all the special effects, the aliens might have
well been cardboard cut-outs. It wouldn't have made them less
interesting.

I came away from the cinema feeling like i had just watched a rather
long advert for the marine enlistment division.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film the other day, and I actually really liked it. It was
exactly what I expected (maybe a little better). If you want to watch a
really well thought out film with lots of character development and
interesting subplots this is not the film for you. If you want to watch
a bunch of U.S. Marines beat the tar out of invading spacefreaks, then
this is the film for you. From when we first encounter the aliens to
sometime in the middle, the movie is a nonstop thrill ride. Stuff
explodes, aliens get splattered, humans get burned by lasers. In case
you didn't already suspect, this film is very violent. Although there
isn't a lot of blood, there are certainly a lot of deaths. The action
is unpredictable and zany. One minute everyone will be walking
somewhere between point A and B, the next, they're crouching behind
burned out cars and houses as aliens pour ungodly hellfire onto them
from above. The special effects were also quite good, with the
exception of a couple bad animations here and there. That being said,
the movie suffers when it slows down. The dialogue is poorly written,
and delivered decently, but not well. Aaron Eckhart however did a
wonderful job as a stony faced marine staff sergeant who keeps a cool
head when under fire. Most of the storyline is pretty standard war
movie/alien invasion stuff. You know, when after a bunch of fighting
everyone gets discouraged and then the leader gives a big motivational
speech and the inspirational music plays and everyone feels heroic. 

So don't expect a masterpiece of modern cinema, expect alien guts and
lots of shooting and I guarantee you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie trailer so I really didn't expect anything more than an
entertaining B rated science fiction flick. No need for spoilers (again
I saw the trailer). It was a pleasant surprise. 

I actually saw a VERY entertaining kick @$$ A-/B+ rated science fiction
movie. The plot was in the realm of possibility, given the
circumstance. The characters seemed plausible, given the range of the
actors. The action kept me on the edge of my seat. All good signs.

Personally, we need more science fiction movies. If you agree, and you
don't require perfection in EVERY film viewing experience -- go see
this movie. 

Take it at face value and enjoy it.

I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with low expectations after the relative
disappointment which was skyline, a film that promised so much from the
trailer and delivered far less.

However, im glad to say any misgivings I had were quickly expelled. Now
don't get me wrong, this isn't the greatest film ever made, and in many
ways it fails to hold a candle to the likes of independence day, which
in my opinion is one of the greatest films of its type ever made. It
does however, bring a much more up close and personal aspect to an
alien invasion. Its more like watching a war filmed in Iraq or
something, but that in itself is what separates it from a muddle of
recent alien invasion movies that fails to ignite any kind of fire in
the mind.

The film moves at an unrelenting pace, with good action sequences and
cgi to boot, its predictable at times and the ending fails to come up
with something clever or original, but hey ... you cant have everything
!!!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are really looking to waste two hours of your precious life,
then feel free to give this piece of crap a try. It's awful... just
awful. The production company is called "Original Films", which is
ironic because there is absolutely nothing original about this movie in
any way. It is cliché after cliché. From a marine who wants to retire
being called in to a "one last job" scenario, to a kid loosing his
father and begging "please wake up" over heavy synthetic violins. It's
awful... just awful. 

There is no objective, no plot, no story, nothing but flying bullets
and low-fi "dancing" CG aliens. With the high budget of this movie
you'd think that they could at least afford good looking CG. The
animation and special effects in Terminator 2 were far superior... and
that was made in 1991... 20 years ago!!

There's a simple game you can play with this movie. Whoever falls
asleep first, wins. Yes, it's that boring.

But what is really depressing about this is the fact that Aaron Eckhart
is a fantastic actor. It is a real mystery why he chose to be a part of
this misguided production. He wasn't bad in this movie, either, but
given the fact that there was no story, no character development, and
soul-killingly lackluster dialogue, even his finely tuned chops weren't
enough to make this movie entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Staff Sergeant Michael Nantz (Aaron Eckhart) is an ageing soldier who
is set for retirement. In his previous tour of Iraq he was one of the
only survivors in his unit and speculation surrounds what happened to
his men. When an alien invasion strikes the Earth however, he is
brought back into the action to help lead a group of young and
inexperienced soldiers. One of them is set to be married and another is
expecting the birth of his child. As the rest of the Earth seems to be
defeated, Los Angeles remains as one of the last posts. With the help
of some civilians including a father and son, a veterinarian (Bridget
Moynahan) and also TSgt. Elena Santos (Michelle Rodriguez), the unit
works to clear out the city, moving towards an extraction point, before
the area can be bombed out. 

Calling Battle: Los Angeles the equivalent of a video game would be
giving it too much credit. Jonathan Liebesman's irredeemable sci-fi
action film is the antithesis of 2010's Monsters. This is an
unoriginal, primitive and mindless recruitment video for the Call of
Duty and MTV Generation. The soldiers here, armed with high powered
assault weapons, don't so much act as scream grunt speak and backslap
each other in a bid to look and sound cool. Take note of pop singer
Ne-Yo's casting and Michelle Rodriguez as a hardened fighter. Big
stretch. But video game enthusiasts would be better served sticking to
the virtual battlefield because the shabbiness of this picture is one
of its few surprises. Shaky cam makes an unwelcome return here, with
framing so ridiculously tight in the opening stages that the camera
seems to be attached to the actors' heads. Later battles are dismally
over edited with rapid fire cutting that the film is indecipherable
about who is being blown up. Forget about characters or development
because by the first gunfight the scriptwriter already has too. There
is no urgency or tension as we have no one to barrack for. As a viewer
you're expected to catch flies as you admire explosion, after
explosion, after explosion. 

The entirety of the film, save for some painfully rushed and clichéd
exposition, is made up of overlong battle sequences and standoffs.
Moments of sacrifice and 'you go on without me' pleas, are unmoving and
do little to compensate for the lack of narrative. Restricting the
perspective of the film to a single military unit also means that there
is little conception about the rest of the invasion. Only brief news
headlines on the televisions give minimal information, like how the
aliens are scavenging our water. Point being, the film seems more
interested in being loud, rather than in the science, the aliens or
even the human reactions. The cynic in me suggests that you see very
little of the aliens up close because of how unconvincing they are.
From afar they look like they're made from scrap metal. Try not to
laugh as Nantz carves one up like a Christmas ham, looking for a
weakness. What makes this more poisonous than other incompetent action
films is the increasing transparency of the film's pro-military agenda.
Along with the compassionless violence, the message seems to be that
you're never too young or too old for the military. Luckily, Eckhart
has a face made out of granite because it must be the only way he can
keep it straight when spouting embarrassing propaganda like 'marines
don't quit' and telling a little boy, 'I need you to be my little
marine'. I found that and Battle: Los Angeles success at the US box
office (it debuted at number one) to be scarier than any alien threat.
Be afraid. Be very afraid.
<|_=00=_|>
The alien invasion film is certainly nothing original. Recently, and
upcoming, I can think of no less than 4 film and TV versions of this
basic tale. Battle: Los Angeles doesn't bring anything new, plot wise,
to this scenario. In fact, it operates on the thinnest of plot and some
very underdeveloped characters. The only somewhat unique aspect, at
least for an alien invasion story, is its gritty "you are there"
aspect, filmed in a hand-held, jerky, thick of the action style. This
isn't revolutionary either, but Battle: Los Angeles does manage to
squeeze some momentum out of its running length.

As mentioned above, Battle: Los Angeles' plot can be summed up rather
succinctly: Aliens land on Earth throughout the globe, including near
Los Angeles. This alien force, operating with ground forces, begins to
overrun the various cities they arrive at, and LA is no different. A
squad of marines, led by Staff Sergeant Nantz (Aaron Eckhardt) is
dispatched to attempt to retrieve possible civilian presence from a
Santa Monica police station behind the front lines of the fighting.
They encounter heavy resistance, and must find a way back to their
forward operating base while keeping the civilians under their
protection, and themselves, alive.

Battle: Los Angeles is obviously influenced, visually, by movies such
as Black Hawk Down and Saving Private Ryan in the staging of its
action. Much of the film is photographed with hand-held camera moves,
the focus constantly whipping around, disorienting both the characters
and the audience. While the technique is hardly unique, it does work to
a degree in Battle: Los Angeles, bringing a different approach to a
familiar plot. This isn't about scientists trying to figure out what
the aliens want, or politicians wringing their hands about the "big
decisions" in the midst of an alien onslaught. Battle: Los Angeles
keeps its focus exclusively on the soldiers in the thick of battle,
presenting the action in a no-holds barred manner. It is refreshing, at
least from that perspective, to see a harder-edged, more realistic take
on this material.

On the other hand, Battle: Los Angeles is a bit weak on the character
front. The most development is given to Sergeant Nantz, who had just
recently returned from a tour in Iraq where lives were lost and many
assume he was to blame. This plays into several moments in the film,
influencing other characters regarding the decisions he makes during
the events of the story. Beyond that, aside from a few obligatory
references to someone's relative or background, none of the other
characters see much development. Physically, they are different enough
to stand out from one another, but they are all mostly blank slates.
There isn't complete detachment from the audience, several moments have
some resonance emotionally, but not as much as if the filmmakers had
taken some time to flesh the people out a bit more.

Battle: Los Angeles also suffers from being a bit overlong, and it's
relentless, action oriented approach means that a lot of similar scenes
play out over and over again: Marines trapped in combat, things don't
look good, a character makes a choice or sacrifice, they manage to
subdue their attackers, and then the film moves to the next scene in
this same format. There is also little or no development of the alien
menace. Snippets of television coverage featuring scientific experts
fills in a little of the backstory to them, but it is mostly
incidental. However, Battle: Los Angeles is not created in that style,
it is about the action going on with the marines in the thick of it,
and stays in that mode.

Aaron Eckhardt proves again his ability to sell a character, and he
imbues Sergeant Nantz with a vigor and a degree of weariness that you
buy into. Most of the other actors do a decent job of making us believe
in these people as Marines in the thick of combat. A few recognizable
names take roles, including Michele Rodriguez as an Air Force tech who
joins up with the Marines and Bridget Moynihan as a civilian they are
trying to protect, but neither has much to work with in regards to
their characters other than to look tough or scared, respectively.

Battle: Los Angeles is certainly no masterpiece. It doesn't deviate
much from the alien invasion template in regards to the broad strokes
of its plot, and the style it was filmed in has been pioneered by other
films. That being said, the film is engaging enough, and applies its
style to a source material in a way that at least gives a different
perspective on a familiar narrative framework. That doesn't make for a
tremendous film, but not one that is completely in need of avoidance by
the filmgoing public.
<|_=00=_|>
From watching the TV trailers for this film, I was expecting a pretty
fast paced, alien invasion, action flick. If I judged films on this
alone, it would get full marks. However, I was left feeling quite left
down by this film.

The over-abundance in cheesy lines, frankly annoying camera work, and
massively predictable scenes could have been forgiven if this film had
been a "b" movie, as that's what we have grown to expect from that
genre. Also, despite the film being quite action packed from the
get-go, I found that it dragged on and on, and definitely could have
been better if it was at least a half-hour shorter.

To expand a little on the camera work, it is very jumpy with jerky
motion and features repetitive amounts of "fast-zoom-in-really-close"
style "effect", which is OK in some situations, but it does get
massively overused in this flick. Another overused "effect" is the
"looking-down-the-scope-trying-to-find- an-enemy" effect. By mid-way in
the film, I wish I had actually started counting how many times this
view was used, as I'm positive it was in double-figures. I know these
effects can add to the feeling you're there with the heroes, but when
it's just the same effect of looking down the sight at some smoke and
concrete rubble, looking for shadows, over and over again, you tend to
get put off it quite quickly.

The SFX are "ok". There is a heck of a lot of it in the film (as you'd
expect, given the plot), and whilst some of the models are quite well
detailed and could pass as believable, some of them are frankly
amateurish - especially when zoomed in on (for instance, you can
clearly tell that some of the "3d" metal work is simply textures on a
flat surface, which offer no depth or moving light), which ruins the
scene for you, as you can't help but notice it's a model, rather than
some alien hardware.

Talking about the script now, I cannot convey to you just how much
cheese is spouted by the actors in the film. I swear you can even see
the anguish on Aaron Eckhart's face as he reels out yet another corny,
predictable, and frankly unrealistic one-liner. It honestly gets to the
point, where you're laughing at just how bad it gets at some points. It
is extremely "B" movieish, which would be fine IN a "B" movie. However,
this film is touting itself as a mainstream, high budget, serious
action flick, where this sort of poor script writing shouldn't be
found. In films like Independence Day, where they inject humour, light-
heartedness and a "don't take it seriously" ambiance throughout, this
script may well have worked - even been quite funny. But sadly, this is
putting itself in with films like District 9 (Alien angle)and Black
Hawk Down (Close combat / Brotherhood of men angle) and it really isn't
in the same league as either.

Which just leaves the plot, which sadly is overly predictable and
doesn't offer much in respect to tension, suspense or twists, but
instead gives predictability, repetitiveness and sadly nothing new.
Whilst it is constantly moving forward, and rarely breaks from the
action, you can't help but feel that the film starts to drag.

To summarize, if it was a "B" movie, it would have been a pretty darn
good one. However, since it's touting itself as a Action Thriller, I'm
afraid it doesn't rate highly once you compare it to other offerings in
the same genre - even if you go back ten years!

For those of you that do want to see it, I strongly recommend waiting
for the DVD release to come out, then be discounted, before buying.
