
I remember that feeling i had when watching the first Saw movie. At
first i walked in with the notion from the trailer that it was going to
be some lame "torture" movie... I then remember walking out afterwards
going "OMG...OMG....OMG..." When i first heard they were making a
second one, i was extremely happy. Then i walked out of Saw 2 feeling
empty.. like i had just watched a lame cash in sequel. For whatever
reason i kept coming back.. Premiere day... I'd be there to watch the
next one. Saw 3 i left feeling way better then the 2nd one.. The 4th
one i remember walking out going "Wtf.. what a lame new jigsaw..". The
5th one i had the distinct thought "Omg.. that was just a total filler
movie and nothing was gained from it..." Six i didn't exactly have high
hopes for...

But Thank... GOD... Saw 6 is not only just a good sequel but its actual
a great movie on its own. The moral dilemma William faces as part of
"his" game throughout the movie... real powerful choices. The traps (as
always..) gory as all hell.. but the emotion behind the decisions and
ending of all the traps.. sends a shiver down my spine. And the ending
twist AND scene... I wont spoil it but my GOD.. You thought agent
Straham had a powerful will to live in that intro scene to 5, You ain't
seen nothing yet.

Mainly though.. The story.. One thing this chronicle of the series does
nicely as well, is tie up SO many questions that have been still
hanging from way back to even Saw 3 (with a couple of new ones added
just for the next ones..). I found that even though i thought 4 and 5
were average on their own... After seeing this one, it amplified and
made them.. i don't know.. make sense.

Just like a jigsaw.. as each piece is layed down... the entire picture
starts to make sense. Bring on Saw 7!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"Saw" was never a franchise that was designed to last. The first film
made a point of killing off every main character save one who was
already dying of an inoperable brain tumor. But, when a movie grosses
100 times its budget filmmakers tend to find untapped wells of
ingenuity. 

"Saw VI" tells a story that is almost certainly incomprehensible to
those who have not seen the previous five films. The entire plot hinges
on the reveal of an element first introduced in "Saw III" and details
the rise of a character who made his debut as a glorified extra. The
entire twist ending is predicated upon one's memory of a secondary
character who is never even on screen during this feature except during
a brief flashback. It's some straight up "Star Trek" level minutia. 

Because of this, a plot summary is useless. You either know what to
expect, in which case it is best to see the movie completely cold, or
you've already determined that you don't care. Suffice it to say, John
"Jigsaw" Kramer and Amanda Young are still dead, (as they have been
since part three) and Agent Hoffman is still on the loose, trying to
teach more people to appreciate life. Then things get complicated.

"Saw" has always worked under a strange moral code, espousing a bizarre
brand of carpe diem philosophy spoken by serial killer who seems to
think that he is saving people by throwing them in pits of used needles
or forcing them to cut off their feet. This philosophy has long been an
albatross for the series because Jigsaw's ideas are, to put it bluntly,
completely idiotic. The result of these tests would likely be a
crippling case of post-traumatic stress disorder, not a moment of
truth. 

"Saw VI" works hard to solve this problem. For the first time in series
history Jigsaw is shown to be maybe the slightest bit mentally unsound.
This is a small but important step as the series makes infinitely more
sense and is far more chilling if Jigsaw is taken as a David Berkowitz
type instead of some sort of blood and guts Buddha. Simultaneous to
this, the filmmakers have finally created a cast of victims who might
well deserve their fate. Thinking back, it's actually quite surprising
that it took five sequels to get to a trap where loan sharks are forced
to contend with Shylock's infamous demand of "A pound of Flesh". 

While many have anticipated a jump to the supernatural for several
entries, few if any guessed that Saw would ever become a political
story. You see, "Saw VI" is just as much about the current healthcare
reform debate as it is about soap opera plot twists. In one scene
Jigsaw literally says the words "Medical decisions should be made by
Doctors and patients" before going on to equate HMO's with murderous
thugs. And while the political polemic elements are perhaps a bit
overcooked, they do imply a level of effort on the part of the
filmmakers that goes beyond the call of duty. The social consciousness
of Jason Voorhees' sixth outing began and ended with a happy face
symbol made of blood.

Longtime series editor Kevin Greutert moves to the director's chair for
this entry and his experience with the franchise shines through. He has
clearly been planning for this opportunity for quite some time, and he
makes the most of it, combining the indie grunge of the original with
the flashy scene transitions of the sequels all while expanding the
color palette, steadying the ADHD afflicted cinematography and toning
down the ultra-violence.. This is almost certainly the best looking
part six the horror genre has ever seen. Keeping pace with the
direction is a slick, fast, and occasionally inventive screenplay by
Marcus Dunstan and Patrick Melton, who handedly outdo their work on the
previous two films.

Everything that was wrong with the five previous films is still wrong
here. The sets still look like those of a movie made for about a
million dollars, the actors are mostly second rate and the logic is
tenuous within a real world scenario. The dialogue is occasionally as
cringe inducing as the gory set pieces and the script makes excessive
use of expository tape recordings in place of legitimate character
development. And yet, I had a damn good time. 

This film is easily the best since part two, and somehow actually made
me want to see part seven. For those already invested in the series
"Saw VI" is a Halloween treat. It's smarter than the previous three and
it features some of the series most interesting traps. It even gives
you a little something to talk about after the credits roll. Most will
hate it sight unseen, but those who show up to watch, "Saw VI" is
better than it has any right to be.
<|_=00=_|>
I am going to say it up front. The Saw series is a guilty pleasure of
mine. That being said the last couple have not really engaged me all
that much. After this one though, consider me back in the fold.
Longtime series editor turned first time director Kevin Greutert has
recharged the series and injected something these films have lacked
since the beginning: humor.

Saw VI starts with a bang. You know right off the bat that this isn't
the same dead serious almost somber type of Saw film you're used to.
I'm going to give Greutert and company the benefit of the doubt here
and assume that this is by design. You know when Jigsaw is putting
people in traps for smoking too much that your tongue should be firmly
planted in cheek. This film is also much more open and colorful than
previous films. After the claustrophobic Saw V that seemed to take
place in only three different rooms this is a welcome change of pace.
Also the traps here are much more inventive than V and maybe even IV
(nothing will best III in my mind for sheer over the top-ness). The
amount of twists and surprises is also plentiful and really do help
bring the game full circle. This is definitely not the transition film
that the last one was and it really left me to wonder where exactly
they can go from here. The twists and turns of the plot are not
something I want to give away as its part of the fun but suffice to say
if you've stuck with the series up until now you won't feel gipped as
you walk out of the theater. The film follows Hoffman as he tries to
stay one step ahead of the FBI while conducting a game involving John
Kramer's insurance broker William who is put through a series of tests
involving his co-workers. The film moves at a breakneck pace cutting
back and forth between the two main plot threads while also throwing in
the now famous Saw flashbacks to fill in the gaps of all the past
movies. I was never bored and special mention has to be given to
Greutert for really keeping this thing from getting bogged down in the
procedural aspects that really plagued the last few films. This is
balls to the wall entertainment and it delivers while also winking and
nodding along the way. Saw also gets extremely topical here for the
first time and the main thrust and theme of this film will hit home to
anyone who even has a passing knowledge of current affairs in this
country. 

The only negatives I can really point out in the film is some of the
suspect acting but again this might be done on purpose through the
director's eyes to inject some humor without resorting to having Jigsaw
or Hoffman crack jokes Freddy Krueger style while they dispense moral
justice. We haven't gotten there yet, maybe Saw X. The other problem I
had was that some of the back story really pushed the suspension of
disbelief but I guess I shouldn't nit-pick because that has been a
problem as far back as Saw II and is needed to stretch out this far
anyway. 

All in all this is easily the best Saw since the 2nd one and I am glad
to see the series get back on track after the CSI elements of the last
two films. This is Saw how I like it: down and dirty and over the top.
Bring on Saw VII!
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't really enjoy Saw V. I found it had too many flashbacks and the
movie itself just felt like an excuse to make another Saw film.

However, Saw VI was a huge improvement over the last. The story was
more interesting and the twists and turns were quite intriguing. One
little problem i have with this film is that they went way too
overboard with the blood and gore in this one, but i suppose that
nowadays, thats what the Saw films are all about, which is a shame,
considering the first film started off as a psychological thriller.

Apart from that, the film was quite enjoyable and there's definitely
some little secrets that they will be able to use for more sequels.
Bring on Saw VII i say!
<|_=00=_|>
Coming back from the midnight viewing, I am seriously shocked. I
remember this time last year writing a review for SAW V, and from first
impressions, I enjoyed it. Digging deeper though after-wards, I
realized how much was wrong. This time however, several friends came
along, avid fans of disliking the newer installments. Well, I am happy
to say, they finally did something right.

The very first thing I noticed that was different was the pacing of the
movie. The opening scene is a trap. I will not reveal who, or why for
that matter, you pay good money to find out after all. Though after
that, the movie takes a very different tone. While everyone probably is
used to the nature of SAW not wasting any time, they took a different
approach for the sixth installment. 

We begin to follow where SAW V left off, Hoffman emerging victorious,
or so it may seem. And soon enough, the introduction of our newest test
subject, William. It's hard to get into the character without spoiling
anything, so if I seem vague, you know why. William is an insurance
agent, the vice president of his company as a matter of fact. In that,
he made a formula on how to determine who should be eligible for health
insurance. Needless to say, John Kramer was a former associate of his.

Jill, the ex-wife of the infamous Jigsaw Killer was also presented a
box. The box plays a large role this time around and again, I will not
spoil it. Her role in the grand scheme of things is further explained
and finally understood. Everything between her past with John, her
present with Hoffman, and if she truly is part of the scheme, or just
another person wanting to escape it all.

The story is nice refresher from the original pace and nicely executed.
Acting this time around as well was great.

My only complaint is how even though the ending will surprise you,
there has been so much exposed through previous installments, you feel
less than shocked. Those who remember previous SAW's will understand
what I mean by shock. 

There is a lot answered this time around, near everything actually. Be
it the letter from SAW III, Hoffman's true intentions, Jill's
involvement, and Jigsaw's grand scheme, everything will be fully
explained this time around. I highly recommenced this SAW, especially
if you want to give it that one last chance to see if it can be saved.
Personally, I find it redeeming and if they continue with refreshing
courses such as this, SAW could go on forever.
<|_=00=_|>
I can remember walking out of Saw V last year, and I hate to say
it...but I was pretty disappointed. The film just didn't deliver the
goods. It's narrative and so called twist made the walk to my car a
living hell, and I thought to myself: "They're going to mess up Saw
VI". In my review for Saw V, I stated that the Saw blade was getting
rusty and dull. It just wasn't the same as it used to be, and the shock
factor that made the films so suspenseful was absolutely gone.

Here I am a year later. After waiting for what seems to be decades, I
finally got out of the midnight opening of Saw VI. It's difficult to
give a sentence that accurately describes what I'm feeling right now,
so I'll just say this: HOLY F***ING S**T!!! It seems as if the
year-wait paid off, because Saw VI is easily the best of the 'second
trilogy' in the Saw series.

What makes Saw VI such a smarter film is it's ability to play off the
strengths of its predecessors. The film knows its destination, so we
get a much more solid story this time around. There has been a lot of
build-up in the previous installments, and it's happened for a reason:
The pay-off is in this one. It's really incredible how everything in
the plot came together so perfectly. All of the events that have
occurred thus far have demonstrated a "Domino Effect" -- every
character in the series is relevant, and one character's actions can
change the entire course of the story and lead to something else. Any
questions brought up in the previous installments are cleared up in VI,
so we finally get a solid conclusion (I really don't know what the hell
they're going to do for Saw VII). When you look up the plot for Saw VI,
it seems so simple: Special Agent Strahm is dead, and Detective Hoffman
has emerged as the unchallenged successor to Jigsaw's legacy. However,
when the FBI draws closer to Hoffman, he is forced to set a game into
motion, and Jigsaw's grand scheme is finally understood.

Trust me, there's a lot more going on in this film than this. But one
thing's for sure: Jigsaw's grand scheme is finally understood, and
that's what mattered most. All of the pieces of the puzzle come
together, and you remain on the edge of your seat because you have no
idea what's going to happen to these characters. The plot takes
dramatic twists and turns that will have your jaw hit the floor. If
you're like me and you're a fan of these films because of the stories,
then Saw VI will go beyond your expectations.

As for the hard-core Saw fans who are in it for the traps, don't worry:
Saw VI is without a doubt the most gruesome of them all. They really
raised the bar with this one in terms of the amount of violence shown
on the screen. I'm amazed the MPAA didn't give this film an NC-17
rating, because the traps (along with the cinematography) really bring
out the gore. The film received an 'X' rating in Spain though, so I'll
let you imagine how violent this one is.

Overall, Saw VI was incredibly well done. The story and pacing was
perfect. The acting from the main cast (Tobin Bell, Betsy Russell,
Costas Mandylor, Shawnee Smith, and Peter Outerbridge) was great. The
traps were disturbing as hell. And, most importantly: a hard-core Saw
fan left the theater with a smile on his face. Saw VI Director Kevin
Greutert (editor of the first five installments) really did an
astounding job, and while I don't like the fact the series is
continuing next year, I hope he's involved with the future
installments.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen a lot of negativity about the Saw series, with many people
saying it should end and that each film is worse than the last. I,
however, find this not to be true, and have always been a fan. To me,
each film that comes out is an improvement on the last, and this latest
installment did not disappoint me.

The deaths are gore- filled, the story full of revelations and twists.
The traps are still amazingly sadistic, and somehow the writers are
able to constantly give us new insight into situations we thought we
already had figured out. Everything fits in beautifully in the Saw
universe,and just when you think they can't possibly explain any more,
they surprise us yet again. I won't give away any spoilers, but suffice
it to say the ending had me on the edge of my seat. I always cringe
when the credits roll- I want more! more! more!...especially with this
one. I daresay this surpasses Saw V by miles. I'm left breathless,
hating the critics, and wondering what will come next, waiting for yet
dreading the end of the series. This is a big thing, considering I'm
usually of the mindset that sequels should never pass 3- if that. As
far as I'm concerned, they can just keep making Saw, as I'll always be
there, watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally, the Saw series has regained some of it's previous credibility.
Saw VI proved to be a very bloody, but clever mainstream romp.

There were a couple of great twists and turns, the gore was jacked up
to a fantastic level of brutal extremity (easily beating the rather
tame 5th installment), and most importantly, I, plus everyone in the
theatre had a ball with it.

As well as being a valid continuation of the 'Saw' story, it worked
well as a standalone film. The main twist actually had nothing do to
with the previous movies... but don't get me wrong, you'll get plenty
of answers for questions left open from the other films at the same
time.

As you'd expect, the acting and production values weren't to flash, but
the good screenplay and balls-out sadistic torture made this a vast
improvement over the last couple of sequels. Apart from the first, I'm
happy to say this is definitely one of my favorites from the series.
7.5/10.

Check it out. I found it to be a pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the first showing at my local movie complex and let me say
it was outstanding. Since Saw 3 I have always walked out the movie
feeling satisfied but at the same time let down, let me tell you, this
is not the case with Saw 6.

The story is compelling, original and really pulls you in for the whole
ride. The traps are great, the gore is at the right level (not in your
face, but enough to make anyone look away at times) and the writing and
acting was the best I have since in a Saw film in a very long time.
This is everything we wanted Saw 5 to be and more.

We were all let down by Saw 5 and believe me as a huge fan of the Saw
series I was nervous going to see this, I knew if they did not pull it
off the series would be as good as dead. However they did pull it off
and how! I wont spoil anything but this film is a must see, definitely
one of the best Saw's and an ending which will leave you satisfied. The
twists don't match up to saw 1 or 2 but I don't think thats possible
considering how much information and mini twists have been revealed
since then.

Go and see this film! You will not regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly can say the Saw VI has restored my faith back into the
series. I remember leaving the theater after Saw V in utter
disappointment. I thought V was terrible, and the twist was...well, non
existent. As far as VI goes, there are SEVERAL twists and turns, and
its exciting to see the spirit of the first trilogy back in the last
film of the second trilogy.

The acting was pretty good except for a few parts, (although I still
maintain that Betsy Russell can't act...sorry) and the main character
was more fleshed out than most of the other players from past
films...Which brings me to a new point..

I think this was the most mature saw film since the first one...This
one, with the exception of opening with a gruesome trap, spent more
time with the characters, and allowed them time to develop better than
in the previous installments. I really hope they decide to have Kevin
Gretuert (sP) do Saw VII, instead of Hackl (no offense). I don't know
if it was Hackl's fault or the screenwriter's for Saw V being such a
weak entry, but all I know is Gretuert knows what he's doing, and is a
much more decisive and talented director. I hope he does more than Saw
films in the future! The only thing that disappointed me was no
mentioning of the events (with the exception of Hoffman as the new
Jigsaw, and Strahm's death) from Saw V...For instance, what was the
point of the people in the traps in V? I know that was more than likely
intentional to keep the suspense going for future sequels, but DAMNIT,
I want to know what happened to Julie Benz's character, and why that
game was so important.

Overall, I give saw 9.5/10
