
I'll be honest, I went to see this knowing it wouldn't be great. The 3D
looked awesome, and I was excited to see Wesker. What I wasn't
expecting was a dull, pointless, plot less, horribly-acted cornball
"action" movie.

Milla has worn out her welcome as a poor-man's Angelina Jolie. I love
her, I really do, she's one of my favorite actresses, but this has gone
too far. That said...

Without trying to spoil anything, it seems that Paul Anderson had no
idea where to go with this sequel, thus throwing everything out from
the last film, (I wont go into detail), while shoving small things from
the video game in, just to fill time and justify the 'Resident Evil'
title. It falls flat, and leaves many of the scenes feeling unneeded
and forced.

My MAIN grudge against RE:A is the lack of plot. I do like to see a
good mindless action/horror film (Machete and Piranha are on my top 10
list already!), but this film took itself way too seriously, and forgot
where the hell it was going at times. Taking a look back at the movie,
it seemed like nothing happened throughout the whole 96 minutes! The
action scenes, in my opinion, were lame, tame, dull, overdone, and the
slow-motion wasn't impressing anyone. It came off, once again, as
forced and corny.

I'm a fan of the RE videogames and do nitpick, but at the same time,
I've taken the movies for what they are. The first film was great,
second meh, third bad, but this one was downright horrible. I'm really
not sure I saw the same movie as most of the reviewers here, because
what I saw was a flashy, dull, pointless entry in an already dead
series. Time to give it a rest Paul.

Resident Evil: Afterlife gets a 3/10 *'s
<|_=00=_|>
While I usually refrain from writing reviews, RE: Afterlife was such an
excruciating experience to endure, I had to somehow vent my righteous
anger. Thus: the review.

While I quite enjoyed the very first Resident Evil movie (except for
the CGI showdown), starting with Number two (Apocalypse) the movies
went from thrilling, spooky zombie movies to something like a
low-budget Zombie-Movie-in-the-Matrix. I say low-budget, because the
special effects and action sequences screamed of cheap and shoddy work,
the stories were laughable at best, and yet, here comes another entry
in a series that should have stayed dead.

To see all of Afterlife's Non-Glory in 3-D, probably made it even worse
for me. As much as I like 3-D movies, RE: Afterlife cannot be salvaged
by anything at all, short of standing up after the first three minutes
and walking out the door. Or maybe urinating on the screen, then
walking out the door. Or maybe adding another dimension, time, which
would allow me to go back to the beginning of the film and shoot myself
repeatedly in the head. 

Starting with the first (of many) utterly ridiculous action sequences,
dominated by so-bad-it's-funny-in-a-sad-way wire-fighting and
wire-wall-jumping, the movie actually manages to go downhill from
there, which is somewhat commendable, since I thought it not quite
possible to even get any worse.

What follows is an assembly of disjointed, poorly conceived action
sequences, way too many slow-motion captures, incoherent story telling,
continuity errors that made my teeth hurt, and then you realize that
the movie has only been running for thirty minutes, and you ask
yourself what you could have done in a previous life to deserve this. 

The "story", if you want to call it that, is driven by ludicrous plot
elements that only exist for the sake of driving a non-existent story
ahead, while half of what happens seems to only happen in order to
create the need for even more embarrassing zombie-killing action. Or
poor attempts at creating some of that Wow-Feeling we all shared when
we first entered "The Matrix".

As some critic once wrote about the new Star Wars Episodes (I-III), the
Resident Evil movies offer great actors the chance for the worst
performances of their lives. I am still astounded by the fact that
Milla Jovovich has not filed a law suit against the producers for
prolonged career murder or violent destruction of reputation.

I honestly cannot find more than two good things about this film, and I
actually am an avid fan of the video game series, so seeing some
familiar faces, as well as monsters, should have at least appeased my
inner nerd-ness, but alas, it wasn't so.

As my final verdict, I will now present the two and only good things in
this movie: 1. Ali Larter in wet clothes. 2. Kacey Barnfield in tight
clothes.

The rest deserves to be laughed at, tarred, feathered, quartered,
strangled, drowned, poisoned, stabbed, clubbed, and then buried in a
toxic landfill next to the remains of Uwe Boll.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the things I like about the Resident Evil films is that they
take the time to fill in the details while holding the audience in
suspense.

This forth film completely falls flat on both accounts. Thanks to 2
dimensional characters, an overdone plot, and poor use of
foreshadowing, the entire film is predictable. At the same time it
doesn't bother to show or explain how certain important plot devices
came to be. The movie reeks from it's overuse of Deus ex machina.

The special effects were the only engaging thing about this movie. A
lot of it felt like The Matrix in 3D.

One other thing this film did well was continuity from the 3rd film. I
like that they didn't spend much time on flashbacks while being
faithful to the events of the 3rd film.

All in all my feeling after seeing the movie was that I was expecting
more. They could have made it longer, filled in some missing details,
developed the plot/characters more, and had a much more enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this compilation of scenes. I liked the soundtrack; I liked the
acting; I liked the settings; I liked the effects. As a game, it works
greatly. The movie is a sum of chunks of stories. Most of them are
action stories. A few are horror stories. Another few are mystery
stories. And none of them are connected to each other. They just share
common characters. 

Honestly, the plot is just an excuse for great action scenes. And I
liked the action scenes. I rate it zero for the story, ten for the
technical quality. And I have to admit it: in the end, I liked it as a
whole.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the cinema with realistic expectations; however even my with
my very low outlook I was shocked by how poor this film was.

The plot was so thin that I honestly feel that it didn't exist. The
movie instead was random events of poorly scripted action scenes that
at times looked like an 80's cartoon. I am going to list in no
particular order the glaring aspects of the movie that exemplify the
lack of thought and continuity that went into its creation.

Ammunition: Call me a cynic but surely even futuristic weapons, require
to be reloaded or even ammunition? Instead we have full blown automatic
fire from handguns that just never run out.

Food: Where does the food come from? Stored? Why is the Hollywood sign
still burning 5 years after the end of mankind? Make up: Character been
through the 'wars' covered in mud and guts, blink and perfect makeup is
reapplied and hair in perfect condition. Miracle!! Fashion: Again would
a few survivors, ever have designer trimmed beards, haircuts, clothes
in perfect condition? Fuel: A small aircraft that can fly without the
requirement for being refuelled.

Ship: Here comes more of my sarcasm: ' I have searched the whole ship
and can't find 15,000 people hidden on board, or a giant science lab,
or hundreds of fighter planes' .... Oh did you mean check that out that
massive door with the umbrella logo on it... well blow me!! Giant
Hammer: Random monster with a hammer, comically knocking down a metal
door, if you've watched the movie you'll know what I mean.

Armoury: Look lets swim underwater, whilst holding our breath for
20mins to an armoury. Luckily for our intrepid characters the weapons
and ammunition are stored together in the same room and oh look at the
giant air conditioned unit in the ceiling, fantastic security and it
leads straight to the roof of the building, magic.

3D effects: I have watched many 3D movies of late and this one was so
poor that I think they forgot to make it 3D.

I feel that this movie could have been a five star bonanza except that
there was not plot, thought or direction put into the movie. The movie
never promised to be a dramatic enterprise with gritty story lines and
depth of characters, never less I am sure any self respecting director
of any note would have the self pride and integrity to produce
something of more quality and reverence. My recommendation, do not
watch this movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
I've always enjoyed the Resident Evil movies, I know they're far from
being Oscar worthy material, but overall they've been entertaining one
way or another. The first was great, Apocalypse was alright, Extinction
was great, if not on par with the first. Afterlife however, is just
awful. 

Who the HELL is the Executioner? and who created him? Why is Afterlife
full of pointless slow motion shots? Why does Alice never show any
emotion at all? Why is she making a video diary for half an hour? Why
do the zombies have weird tentacles? Yes, I know that they're from
Resident Evil 5 but honestly, it's never explained. Why are they here?
Why is Wesker dressed like The Terminator? Where is Jill Valentine? She
was credited but I'm positive that she wasn't even in the damn thing.
Why does Clare disappear for half an hour? Oh, and probably the most
important question of all, who in the right mind hires composers under
the name 'TomandAndy' to compose a movie like this?

Also, I love how confident they are about a sequel. They even left the
damn thing on a cliffhanger. Probably one of the worst cliffhangers
I've ever seen. The only redeeming feature I can actually think of in
this garbage is Milla Jovovich and even she isn't on top form. 

Overall, probably one of the worst films I've ever seen. Bad acting.
Bad writing. Bad dialogue. Utterly pointless. They should've stopped at
Extinction.
<|_=00=_|>
Sheer disappointment! This is surely the weakest Resident Evil movie in
the series. Although we still have the ruthless Umbrella corporation
and the undead here chasing the survivors, their characterisation also
left much to be desired.

The only thing which was and still goes good for the series is Milla
Jovovich. That's unfortunate because how much of the movie's success
can she carry on her sexy shoulders :) Yes, she still looks smokin' hot
and ably kicks b***. She also gets nice support from Ali Larter
although you don't miss anything if you'd replace her with anyone else
:) Seriously, I think Larter's better off in negative, villain roles
than just being a side support. And except for Albert Wesker(head of
Umbrella) who was effectively menacing in his act, we can forget the
rest of the cast.

Even if we were to include the good visual effects and the action
choreography, they don't help much to mask the mediocrity of Afterlife.
Which is sad because I really like Paul Anderson's first in the series.
That was quite scary & memorable. The second in the series was good
too. The third wobbled a bit but this one just crashed! So I guess Paul
should stop making any more REs unless there's a complete makeover in
the writing, direction and casting(except for Milla Jovovich)

Verdict: Hardly much life in the movie, forget Afterlife! Chuck it.
<|_=00=_|>
Damn...I registered IMDb just to review this movie... Could the plot
writer make something explainable ?? The story line confused me again
and again.

How come Alice survive in that plane crash? She was normal human
already! And where is Wesker when Alice leave the crash site? Since
when Alice learn to fly? And where is the fuel? Food? Makeup?? The
building in LA keep burning for 4 years? The armory has a shaft of
something take you to the roof top? Wesker can dodge bullets (ok fine
he is a superhuman), but can't dodge the knife? Here comes the most
ridiculous part....what kind of self-destruction bomb is that? I mean
look at the size, no way it can blast a ship that huge! OK even it is
some kind of alien technology, if it was designed to blow the ship,
would you mount it on a corridor where everyone can touch? Not even you
can touch it, you can just dismount it with ease and dump it like a
grenade?? WHAT KIND OF SELF-DESTRUCTION SYSTEM IS IT??? What were they
thinking??? Not to mention there is a couple of helicopter there and
Claire knew which one Wesker will go aboard! And She knew Wesker will
came back after she and Chris punch hundred of holes on Wesker and shut
the gate. In conclusion, don't pay to watch this movie, rent it on DVD
or watch it online!
<|_=00=_|>
To even begin to describe just how right people were to doubt Mr.
Andersons ability to write a script and direct would be a book in
itself. His inability to capture the imagination, to remain consistent
to his own plot, to develop characters, and a story line that coincides
with the overall story, even understanding the term continuity is a
feat for Hercules alone - obviously. Mr. Anderson's lack of creativity
and possibly suffering from short and long term memory loss is
abundantly in effect with this farce he's created. He claimed it would
'pull the audience in' when in truth all it did was make people walk
out - and people are usually easily pleased but not from where I was
sitting.

Battle field Earth marries matrix and has an affair with ultra Violet
the end result is the bastard child he calls Resident Evil Afterlife.

I will pull out just an example of how terrible the plot was by quoting
the goof's section and adding a few of my own: (spoiler next) During
the final confrontation with Wesker, Chris and Claire enter the scene.
Wesker addresses them by NAME and states they "have become quite an
inconvenience". How, and when did they do this? Chris has been locked
up since the outbreak of the virus and Claire had no impact on Weskers
operations in this or the last movie WHATSOEVER.

In Andersons mind this was a 'salute' to the fans. THE PROBLEM Mr.
Anderson is that when a character has no idea who is who and has NEVER
encountered them before the dialog makes absolutely no sense and the
'confrontation' is redundant. Not to mention the entire story is
warped. Quite a HUGE thing to escape his mind and I wish it ended
there. But the man did not just develop a huge plot hole; the entire
movie was nothing but plot holes INSIDE plots holes. I never even knew
that was possible until now. 

His only focus was the 3D CAMERA with his wife as the 'little piggy'.

Mary-sue is back and is now the living embodiment of an oxymoron (which
also isn't possible tech but there you go ) and an utter cliché. She
loses her powers but can still leap 20 feet in the air and kick a tray
of sharp objects with absolute accuracy, not to mention take blows from
GIANT Ax's full on and get up with not even a broken rib let alone a
bruise. Oh and there is a stabbing but you'll mistaken it for a tooth
pick because it seems even when a blade is run right though the arm of
Ms mortal Mary-sue all you get is a GUH! and it's business as usual.

The acting WOODEN and the stunts are ridiculous! Considering it's
apparently the real world with no 'jacking into' a massive computer
world where basic physics don't apply, it's hard to sell and digest
just about most of the stunts. 

The OC meets the Resident Evil characters and the movie is one god
awful fan fiction. With plenty of WTF moments and FTS, even Micheal Bay
would be LHAO as the terribly created explosions and gun shots. Because
even gun fire is digitally created badly resembling old Japanese
English dubbed movies with the lips moving and the dialog happening a
few min later! WHERE DID ALL THAT MONEY GO when making this movie?! the
answer: 3D.....3D.....THREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE DEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Slow motion thrrrrrrrreeeeeeeeee deeeeeeeeeeeeeee Really Mr. Anderson,
if you wanted to molest the camera there are cheaper ways of doing so
than getting a production company to cough up millions of dollars, rent
you their staff, and devote more minutes to agonizing slow motion
scenes (instead of developing THE ACTUAL STORY) - and cheat people out
of their hard earned money which we desperately need in these hard
times.

SHAME ON YOU.

To those readers who want a good time SAVE YOUR MONEY for marvel and DC
because Capcom has seriously misjudged Andersons professional integrity
and ability to deliver the only thing he's achieved is proving his
doubters right- he is a hack. His work is a drop out middle schoolers
work. Your money and your time will be greatly wasted. Those positive
reviews are beyond misleading. They paint a picture of a movie that
never happened. Or are written by EXTREMELY generous people or people
with low expectations and just wanted to get out of their houses.
<|_=00=_|>
Afterlife fails on every level of what makes a decent movie.

Which is probably the most fascinating aspect about it. If one wants to
learn how NOT to direct, cut, narrate, explain, suspension curve and
visualize a movie, this is where it's all in one place. Adding shallow
characters, mediocre acting and an incredibly insulting script does not
make it better.

RE used to work as a zombie movie. While this has arguably gotten a bit
old, Afterlife is just without purpose. In hindsight it seems to be set
up as Alice vs. Wesker or the other way round, but it does not work at
all. 

1. The action scenes do not follow any logic, create no climax and are
mostly pointless. Some style elements such as matrix-slow-motion etc.
are placed randomly across the movie without purpose.

--Start: Alice infiltrates Umbrella headquarters, killing the first
guards close combat. This is about the only decent scene in the whole
movie. Reinforcements are then just annihilated by her superpower-look,
along with devastating the entire area. Which makes the initial effort
to kill people one-by-one feel pretty much effort. After that, suddenly
she has countless clones of herself for support, who conveniently all
die in a fire when the complex finally explodes. WHAT THE.. !?!? OK.
Let's ignore the script, it just fails.

2. Suspense/Cut: There is no suspense at all. Things happen. Any chance
for suspense is muted by the insane script and the incredibly bad
cutting, where the scene switches EVERY TIME as soon as anything
remotely exciting could be about to develop. 

3. Visuals/CGI: Afterlife has no "feel" to it. The Umbrella stuff is
always brand-new shiny tech and of the outside world we do not see much
at all. At the end, when they enter the tanker-like ship, it promised
to be some dark grungy place. Instead, EVERYTHING was bright white.
Except the helicopters, which were just black. Actually it looked like
the CGI budget ran out, but it could also be that silly intentionally. 

4. Acting/Characters: Cheesy and generic. Not totally annoying at the
best times. Kim Coates wasn't bad in the 2 scenes he got, this is not
the type of movie he should be in but he is at least interesting.

I feel this movie was only pieced together lovelessly to generate some
new video game sales.
