
I watched Escape Plan yesterday in a preview screening and let me tell
you: this movie rocks!

The first co-leading partnership between Stallone/Schwarzenegger is a
great flick.

Very good story, a very good villain, good action scenes and a perfect
chemistry between the two action stars!

The supporting cast, in special Jim Caviezel, is one of the many
highlights of this movie.

For action fans and people who want to forget their lives for a couple
of hours and have a film fun, I highly recommend it!

Salute!
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent cast, scrip and acting (yes, acting). You can't expect Sly
and Arnie to play Shakespeare, and they won't. They are meant to kick
ass and that's what they do.

The story goes by smoothly and fast. Dialogues and sequence are really
well written. Main characters bring you in the movie and Jim Caviezel
is great as the villain. So is Vince Jones and the rest of the
characters.

This isn't for everyone but I can't believe this movie is flying so
under the radar. What a shame. This is old school, action packed
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a simple plot movie that symbolizes everything about Silvestre
and Schwarzenegger glory days. There is no thick plot or real
complexities, it's a simple bad guys Vs good guys action flick.
However, the movie does not disappoint, its very entertaining and full
of action and hard core scenes. The acting is as expected, nothing
Oscar worthy but good enough from action legends like them. The idea is
simple and is easily understood. The one difference in this movie is
that the chemistry between Schwarzenegger and Stallone is excellent and
they deliver some humor also. The only downside that I can think about
is the fact that this movie is really meant for both the stars fans and
not people who are looking for real ideas or excellent cinematography.
Bottom line go enjoy the movie and don't forget your popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>
No doubt that movie is entertaining, 8/10, fast, no slow time. Humour,
jokes, a few reference to older movie. This movie is with both main
actor, not a Sly movie with a cameo of Arnold, its both of them all the
time. It's good and funny. The plot is intelligent, I liked it. It's
not a remake of any kind, of course you know the end or you can predict
some of the turnouts. But, overall it is fun and intelligent. The
ending is rushed a bit, turns out like a bit of a sort of "Expendable"
style of movie, but not as much. No sex, or any kind of romance in that
movie, or super chicks making you want to jump at the screen, it's a
typical American movie, blood, guns & some violence, but no chick.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that the fact alone Schwarzenegger and Stallone
are in their 60's doing a film like this is the ultimate reason to
watch this. I can never understand why people claim they are too old.
If anything they put people half their age to shame with their physical
abilities and they should inspire people to want to stay energetic well
into their senior years. This movie is absolute Gold! We finally have
the two biggest movie stars of all time headlining a movie together and
believe me you get what you pay for! The action and visuals were what I
expected, very clear and stunning. The prison was almost a character
itself in making the audience feel apart of the setting. My hat goes
off to the director who was able to balance the off-screen chemistry
between Stallone and Schwarzenegger and fuse it into the story. No joke
these two guys were made to star in a movie together. The nostalgia is
off the roof!! Every movie has its flaws and no doubt this one did but
in saying that, I was able to automatically ignore them here because of
the story, it was well paced. We see Stallone's character introduced as
a prison security expert who is set up and put into the worlds most
secure prison. Here he teams up with none other than Schwarzenegger who
plays another prisoner, pretty much "the one you don't mess with".
Together they plot their escape and it is done superbly! Overall I
think this movie is a well made action thriller and will surprise
audiences with something they haven't seen before from both Arnold and
Sly. I will be surprised if this film doesn't get much attention at the
box office because this movie goes back to a time when Hollywood was
larger than life and gave us memorable characters and memorable action
scenes. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was so prepared not to like "Escape Plan" thinking it would be
another run of the mill Stallone action movie. I went in with very low
expectations, not knowing anything of the plot. But surprisingly, this
film turned out to be very engaging and fun to watch after all. I will
not be putting a detailed synopsis for you to be able to enjoy this
movie fully as well.

Ray Breslin (Sylvester Stallone) is a Houdini of jails, having the
ability to escape even the highest of high security enclosures. He
finds himself locked up in an unofficial facility whose problematic
inmates are meant to "disappear". In the advanced, high tech and
isolated prison, Breslin's escape skills are put to the ultimate test. 

Sylvester Stallone still delivers his lines as garbled as ever, but he
looks good for his age, and has not lost his charisma as an action
star. He managed to be quite credible in playing such an
incredibly-skilled individual. We are ready to suspend disbelief and
accept that he can do the impossible. Hey, that is Stallone on that
screen!

Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a German inmate named Rottmeyer, who
befriends Breslin. Arnie plays it light here, with his acting so
typically awkward and actually funny, but we know and love him in this
tongue-in-cheek style of his. 

Jim Caviezel is intense as Hobbes, the warden of this special prison,
as well as its proud designer. He will go to all extremes to prove that
his prison is escape-proof. His career seemed to have taken a dip after
"Passion of the Christ" and that is unbelievable after the limits he
pushed with that memorably emotional performance. He is very good here
despite being in a rather one-dimensional antagonist role.

It was very good to see Sam Neill on screen again, also after what
seems to be a long absence. He plays the prison physician here faced
with a moral dilemma.

The story telling by Swedish-born director Mikael Håfström is
well-paced and actually quite exciting. The set design of the prison
was very high- tech, and well thought of. That version of solitary
confinement was harsh! The escape techniques seemed logically planned
and thrillingly executed. The revelation scenes are very well-staged
and that is only how far I'm going to describe them so you won't be
spoiled with the many surprises this film has in store for you. 

Recommended for those looking for a good, entertaining and unexpectedly
smart action film. You may think you already know how it all ends, but
the road it took to get to that ending is quite an enjoyable ride,
despite those typically hokey gunfight scenes towards the end. I had a
good time watching this. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Escape Plan" isn't the greatest film ever made. But it is a fun,
non-stop thrill ride B-movie that delivers the dream team we've always
wanted...Arnie and Sly! Yes, they've teamed up in the over-the-top,
cheesy Expendables films but "Escape Plan" is a more satisfying and
better quality film.

Rambo...Terminator...Jesus...John Trent...50 Cent...yeah, the cast is
pretty awesome for this "prison break" flick. Jim Caviezel almost
steals the show as the "evil" warden. We all know Sly and Arnie are in
their mid-60's but man do they still kick butt! Plus they're still
literally ripped...like bulging...like veins sticking out all over the
place ripped! We had a blast watching this and I recommend it to any
action fan, especially the 80's action crowd. There's great one-liners,
slow motion shoot outs, explosions, prison shanks, and all sort of bad
ass action.

I really hope this does well at the box office because it is an
entertaining film that's way better than "The Last Stand" and "A Bullet
To The Head". But I wouldn't be surprised if those films have turned
some movie goers off. A real action fan will love this flick though. Go
check it out! Get to da choppa!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Ray Breslin (Sylvester Stallone) is a renowned specialist in prison
breaking in high-security facilities. He owns a company with his
partner Lester Clark (Vincent D'Onofrio) and he works with his
coworkers and friends Abigail (Amy Ryan) and Hush (50 Cent). Breslin
follows three basic rules to escape: to know the layout; observe the
routine; and get internal or external support to the getaway. Then he
delivers a report with the flaws in the system to his client.

Breslin and his team are visited by the CIA agent Jessica Miller
(Caitriona Balfe) that offers five-million dollars to him to test a
state-of-art facility. Breslin accepts the challenge but soon he learns
that he was double-crossed. The cruel prison ward Hobbes (Jim Caviezel)
gives special attention to Breslin, following the instructions of his
client and uses his right arm Drake (Vinnie Jones) to break Breslin.
But the inmate Rottmayer (Arnold Schwarzenegger) gets close to Breslin
and helps him to find a way to escape and find who betrayed him. Will
they be well succeeded in their intent?

"Escape Plan" is a full of action movie with Sylvester Stallone and
Arnold Schwarzenegger and a great cast. The plot has the usual flaws
but entertains a lot using the themes prison, betrayal and revenge that
are always attractive. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Rota de Fuga" ("Escape Route")
<|_=00=_|>
I don't care what people say about action films, I love them and if it
has Arny, Sly, Willis, or JCVD count me in.

I thought this movie was going to be a disappointment like "The Last
Stand", and it proved me wrong with a vengeance. 

This wasn't a movie slapped together for two "has beens." It was an
interesting (and yes a little out there) story that would hold up
without the two. Casting Sly and Arny was the icing on the cake. I
think the script was decent, the directing great (it actually made me
feel involved), and the acting was choice. 

It was done well. No old timer jokes, no spoofing, just another movie I
want to own. 

The ending was almost as pleasing as "Inglorious Bastards'" conclusion. 

Nothing like seeing someone get what's coming to them.

I also thought Arnold was just going to be in it for a minute, nope.
I'd say he was in about 75 percent of the film and every moment he was
on screen I felt like a kid again. 

The two are personal heroes of mine and this movie reminded me why.
<|_=00=_|>
Came back from 'Escape Plan'and I liked it. Seeing 2 of the 80s action
icons Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone together was great.
The plot was really unique and something new for a change and the small
twist between Arnold and Stallone at the ending was just hilarious for
me 

Once again Arnold really stole the show for me with some of his best
liners and action 'n the movie. Stallone for me on the otherhand tried
too hard but couldn't match Arnold's performance but both still managed
to do a solid job. Hopefully, they'll team up again in the future but
with Arnold as the main hero instead next time. The rest of the cast
played their rolls well too especially Jim Carviezel and Faran Tahir 

Overall, an enjoyable movie and definitely in my top 5 of the year
