
"Not Fade Away" is one of those movies that leaves you with a bad taste
after you watch the movie; it's like watching a movie by the resident
cool kid in town, straddling the prettiest girl in one hand and on the
other hand, going on about how he overcame his meager upbringing,
dysfunctional family, disloyal friends to become who he is. The story
might be genuine and the tribulations might be authentic but it's just
the way it is told that makes it so unlikeable.

The movie does not have an ending (just an absurd tacked on one),
creates handfuls of subplots that it never bothers to resolve and
indulges heavily in the writer/director's own world of self-references
and pointless pettiness. After furiously producing subplots like it's a
pilot of a TV show it just ends, giving that unresolved
what-ever-happened-to feeling that as a moviegoer I hate. The young
Italian-American protagonist who is probably the writer/director
himself doesn't have a real story to tell or a point to make. The story
just meanders on and on, the key tension points leading absolutely
nowhere. Rather than create a compelling story, the movie demands some
sort of adulation for what it presents and ultimately insults the
viewer assuming the viewer should feel privileged to hear the story
rather than earning its merits.

"Not Fade Away" is advertised as a movie about a band trying to make it
big; however this movie is more of a bizarre bake of 60s set pieces.
There is the vintage music equipment show - the Rickenbachers, the
Gretchs, the vintage Fenders and others; the vintage car show and then
the 60s records - primarily an obsession with the Rolling Stones that
are displayed in their big, shiny and loud glory. While the audience
who were teenagers in the 60s might appreciate the shiny items of
desire, the rest will find these shiny objects do not fill up a movie
or compensate for a story. It's like a glossy vintage advertising
brochure - pretty girls, rebellious rock stars and shiny things but not
a story to tell.

The other major problem in the movie is the absolute opacity of its
sub-characters. The father, the mother, the girlfriend, the band mates,
the girlfriend's sister, the families are completely and utterly
opaque. They keep doing bizarre things without showing or being to
infer why they are doing what they are doing. Perhaps it's some sort of
a 60s thing, a band thing, an Italian-American thing or a 60s band
thing but I wouldn't know. The movie doesn't bother to really explain
or resolve anything and it just bubbles up here and there and then it's
gone. The movie is just a sequence of these strung together and it just
makes all the characters unlikeable and tiring.

I like rock and roll movies but in this movie rock music neither serves
as a backdrop for a personal story nor tells a story about the rock and
roll greatness. The 60s backdrop overpowers the movie and the story
feels like it's about a bunch of teenagers so in love with themselves
that they feel they are the privileged ones. One scene comes to mind;
an aunt comments, "I hear rock and roll keeps you young" to which our
protagonist churlishly replies, "rock and roll is an art form. Does
Dostoyevsky keep you young?"
<|_=00=_|>
Reading some of the other reviews I can somewhat see positive
interpretations of this movie: life as a young person in the 60s was
not cohesive or predictable thus it is fitting for this film to be
"confused". The problem is that the more or less random snapshots of
the particular life we are witnessing illustrate the decade in ways we
already understand: I like the Beatles, I am sad and mad when MLK is
shot, I don't want to go to 'Nam.

Without the support of a plot or structured character development, one
can anticipate the emptiness of it all. Too many threads are planted at
once and they all die in strangled, choppy mess. Finally, individual
scenes are executed in a way that is flowery, verbose, and predictable,
which leaves each self-indulgent attempt at emotion-evoking very
obvious. 

Nostalgia is strong, and a few shivers-down-the-spine moments will no
doubt come, which makes it easy to overrate this film. However those
moments happen *despite* the film: cool history and good music are
powerful things.
<|_=00=_|>
The Sopranos' creator David Chase's directorial debut, "Not Fade Away",
is, at its core, a sad movie, masked by the comedy and music that
barricade my empathy. The fictional story of a 1960s teenage drummer
(John Magaro) who creates a rock band with a few of his friends, "Not
Fade Away" is a very character driven film, focusing primarily on the
social life of the protagonist, specifically his relationship with his
girlfriend (Bella Heathcorte), his band mates, and his family. I won't
spoil the plot, but it is a coming-of-age tale, not as much about
learning and growing as it is about doing and living. James Gandolfini
is an on screen pleasure as the main character's father, while the rest
of the cast, mostly lesser known actors, gratifyingly embody the 1960s
rock and roll personality. 

Gloriously filmed by Chase's cinematographer Eigil Bryld, the film
succeeds in emitting a rock and roll cluttered vibe when the music is
playing, contrasted by a dark, Godfatheresque undertone that is
signature of David Chase during more dramatic scenes. While the art
direction and costume design were spot on, in the end it was the music
that was transporting me through time. Repeatedly watching, with the
characters, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, and Buddy Holly perform on
a small black and white TV, I was sent back into the age of drugs, sex,
and rock and roll. The band's original songs were probably the
highlight of the film. Under the supervision of Steve Van Zandt, the
music department took advantage of the actors' talented musical
backgrounds and were able to conjure up some extremely enjoyable tracks
that very well could've been written during the era.

My main problem with the film is the fact that it is littered with
unnecessary scenes, scenes that are probably meant to indicate
character development, but ultimately convey little to nothing. It also
fails to establish Heathcote, the supporting actress, as an interesting
or particularly likable character. Not much is ever learned about her
through the course of the film while notably less significant
characters remain better developed and ultimately more interesting. 

When walking into the theater at the New York Film Festival, I thought
I was in for another "Almost Famous". What I got was a very different
movie. "Not Fade Away" is a simple picture. With a basic plot structure
and relatable characters, the film is practically spoon-fed to its
audiences. It is the end of the film, the final scenes, that sum up not
only the movie, but the era. You must think before you proclaim a lack
of closure, consider the times and the lifestyle. Rock spawned from the
blues and, in the sad actuality of this movie, can't ever separate from
its source. Success is 10% inspiration and 90% perspiration and in the
end we often can't keep up. I recommend this vicarious joyride to all
music, drama, and comedy movie lovers, as well as anyone who is looking
for a party, a party that is shut down by reality. 8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
David Chase's anticipated Not Fade Away not only jumbles itself into an 
indulgent story, constantly keeping the audience at an arm's length but 
it's overly stretched and uneven not utilizing the strong talents in 
the film like James Gandolfini, Jack Huston, and John Magaro. A natural 
comparison to Almost Famous (2000), the film doesn't hold a candle to 
Cameron Crowe's homage to music. Showcasing outstanding music of the 
1960′s and 1970′s, Chase manages to capture moments of the young 
adolescent mind longing to be more. Lead Magaro delivers a character 
transformation of mind and body, a turn that elevates the film 
considerably. The great Jack Huston, an actor that will likely be one 
of the biggest things in Hollywood any minute now, delivers an 
aggressive supporting turn reminiscent of Channing Tatum's work in A 
Guide to Recognizing Your Saints (2006). Bella Heathcote shows 
tenderness and promise but undervalued and virtually unused. James 
Gandolfini, stands out with charisma and garners much of the big 
laughs. A great character actor like Gandolfini should be given room to 
move. The film ultimately fails because it never feels like Chase knows 
his film or where he wants it to go. The last twenty minutes feel 
unneeded, unearned, and thrown together for an "artistic" catalyst with 
no emotional or technical effect whatsoever. A large disappointment.


<|_=00=_|>
David Chase's earnest mix of rock 'n roll, young love and family drama
is overlong and sloppy, aspiring to be a defining examination of the
Sixties but rendered trite by trudging out references to every historic
moment (in this, it's similar to "Lee Daniels' The Butler") and
wallowing in misguided pronouncements about the Vietnam War, capitalism
and rock's purity; the intent is to advance the father-son conflict
between lead John Magaro and a wasted James Gandolfini. (In fact, Chase
unintentionally portrays rock music as a negative force, divisive
enough to destroy families.) Chase's strength as the creator of "The
Sopranos" was in his carefully plotted backstory that forced the viewer
to pay close attention upfront; here, he employs a similar approach,
but without the expanse a mini-series affords the result is disjointed
and incomplete: all of the stories he introduces are either left
unsatisfactorily unresolved or spontaneously concluded. It doesn't help
that his characters are inherently unlikable (Magaro is a good
example), mere caricatures (co-stars Jack Huston and Will Brill) or
blanks (love interest Bella Heathcote). The film's sole asset is Steven
Van Zandt's musical curation, though he eschews the deeper tracks in
favor of songs even the casual fan will recognize.
<|_=00=_|>
just finished up watching this growing up in the sixties, and rock and
roll movie. for the earliest of the Baby Boomers, this is the movie for
you, and the music will rock your soul. A teenage band, with
inspirations maybe a little too optimistic. With a top notch cast, and
great story telling, this was indeed entertaining and very realistic,
since I was in a little band back then too. James Gandolfini is great
as a pretty typical sixties Father, coping with everyday problems and a
pretty wacky Wife. The teenagers are very realistic, and you could tell
it was written pretty much biographical. It works for me. Highly
recommended especially to us Boomers.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. And it's sad because
James Gandolfini does a great job, as he always does, with his
performance. The problem is not the actors. The problem is the script
and the direction. I liked the beginning of this film. It had real
promise and direction. As the movie breaks into the hour and thirty
minute mark it begins to wander aimlessly to the point of having no
point, no direction and nothing to say. Until, at the very last moment,
the meaning of the film is told to us by a break of the fourth wall.
This practice, breaking the fourth wall-having one of the characters in
the film talk directly to the audience-is tricky business. It's done
far better in other films but not in this one. Especially not when one
of the characters walks up to you and tells you what the movie is all
about in a few words. That's not art. That's gutless. In regards to the
length of this film; that's beating a dead horse. When you do something
that blatant in film or story or any other kind of medium, the only
thing you are doing is being lazy. It's telling me and the other
members of the audience that you couldn't let the rest of the movie
stand on its own. It's telling me you're a chicken. This movie would've
been fine if it had wrapped up it's point by using metaphor. It was
almost there. And then the end lines happened and if I didn't love my
TV so much, my foot would've gone right through it. I write this as a
warning to people who enjoy good movies; don't waste your time. The
people who made this movie don't deserve it.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone has heard about the '60's but only a few of us actually grew
up during that decade. David Chase evidently did grow up during that
time. Music was very important then. Before there were CDs there were
vinyl records & every time The Beatles or The Stones or Dylan came out
with a new record it was a major event. David Chase captures that time
perfectly. He favors The Stones. Jagger and crew are still performing
today and part of the secret of their longevity is the fact that they
are blues based. Chase knows that & even tho he occasionally throws a
bone to that other art form - film - he concentrates almost exclusively
on the role of the blues in the formation of rock and roll. The cast of
young unknowns are refreshing - especially the 2 leads & the soundtrack
as has been noted is killer. I particularly enjoyed hearing Tracy
Nelson's "Down So Low" which was used almost in it's entirety.
<|_=00=_|>
Rising talent John Magaro stars in TV director David Chase's debut big
screen feature as New Jersey middle class teen Doug caught up in the
fervor of Rock & Roll during the 1960s, fueled by the British Invasion
to drum and then sing for his high school pals' five-man American R&B
cover band and pursue their dreams of fame against the snarky
disappointment of Doug's stoic father Pat (wonderfully played by James
Gandolfini).

It's fairly clear early-on that Not Fade Away is a true labor of love
bordering on cinematic autobiography for director and screenwriter
Chase. It captures specific moments in American history from a baby
boomer music-lover's very personal level, and Magaro impressively takes
his character through this journey of awkward self-discovery and hero
worship of The Rolling Stones to Bob Dylan. His performance is often
stunningly underplayed, making Doug completely believable here as a kid
just trying to make his life worth something. Kudos also go to Bella
Heathcote (previously seen in Dark Shadows), stepping in as Doug's
upper class hometown love interest Grace.

Unfortunately, all of the great acting seen in this 112-minute picture
really isn't enough to distract you from how undercooked and uneventful
Chase's screenplay is. Sure, there's some interesting dialog sprinkled
throughout. Doug wondering aloud about the Brits knowing the Blues and
bringing it to the States - where the Blues came from - is a priceless
moment. Yes, the soundtrack is amazing. Leadbelly. Bo Diddley. The
Stones. Awesome. Paying moviegoers will likely want to love it, but
probably won't because nothing particularly memorable happens to any of
these characters. It doesn't even matter if you accept Not Fade Away as
Chase's take on his early years as a wannabe rock star or not. Aside
from the peripheral high points already mentioned, this is an
unnecessarily boring small movie over-all.

There's not much served up at this flick's official website
(notfadeawaymovie.com) either: A gallery of photos, a videos section,
story and cast info, links to Facebook etc, and the soundtrack
available on iTunes. Forgettable.

While it's easy to predict big things from John Magaro in the near
future after seeing this movie, the same can't be said for the movie
itself. Wait a couple of minutes for Not Fade Away to appear on the IFC
channel, if you're interested in taking a mildly novel wander through
this tumultuous decade in US music history. Otherwise, you're better
off saving your time and cash letting Not Fade Away do just that: Fade
away. Yawn. Reviewed 01/13, (c) Stephen Bourne.

Not Fade Away is rated 14A by the Ontario Film Review Board for coarse
language, slurs, sexual references, partial or full nudity in a brief
sexual situation, illustrated or verbal references to drugs, alcohol or
tobacco, crude content, substance abuse, embracing and kissing,
fondling, implied sexual activity, tobacco use, and restrained
portrayals of non-graphic violence, and is rated G by la Regie du
Cinema in Quebec.

More reviews: moviequips.ca Follow: @moviequips
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this. I went into the film having no idea what this film was
about and thought it was really good. The music more than anything was
done so well, credit to Steve Van Zandt. The story wasn't amazing or
mind-blowing, but it was entertaining for sure. Set in the same time as
That Thing You Do - early 60s - it follows a similar concept but
completely different story. I was surprised by all of the music rights
they obtained in the film as it is filled with big songs that couldn't
have been easy to clear. In terms of the cast, Bella Heathcoate was
definitely the standout for me. Her and her sister where my favorite to
watch.
