
So last night from 7.30pm through 2am. I sat through the Cornetto
trilogy at the Vue cinema in my hometown, Worcester. Watching 'Shaun Of
The Dead' and 'Hot Fuzz' again really boosted the hype for what was to
follow, come midnight... 'The World's End' began! 

So the film started like every other Cornetto film, allowing us to get
attached to our lead characters, learning a bit about their backgrounds
through comical contexts! The film follows our five leads, portrayed by
Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, Martin Freeman, Paddy Considine and Eddie
Marsan, whom 20 years after a failed pub crawl, reunite to repeat the
crawl and return to their hometown, Newton Haven, to do so. However,
all is not what it seems. Over the due course of the night, the gang
began to discover that the town has been taken over by robots
attempting to "reform humankind", completing the crawl becomes the
least of their worries.

The film is extremely clever, like Shaun of The Dead and Hot Fuzz they
have mixed two genres, this time Sci-Fi and Comedy, to create a film on
par with the rest. From the first pint all the way through to the
"bitter end.. or lager end" the crew have to use their wits to avoid
being detected and caught by the pursuing robots, all of which ends
with devastating consequences. It is a must-see if you enjoyed the
other two. Edgar Wright's trilogy has come to a fantastic end!
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I really enjoy movies written by Simon Pegg. I especially
liked Shaun of the Dead and Paul. This movie really stumbled.

Remember that scene in Shaun of the Dead in which they decide the best
thing to do is head toward a pub and defend themselves from the zombie
horde from there? This movie makes that idea its central theme,
changing the zombies into some sort of alien robots, and multiplying
the pubs. That's it.

Paul had me laughing out loud every minute or two, and I never get
tired of watching it. The World's End gave me just a couple of chuckles
throughout the film. And I almost nodded off several times.

The setup before the robots appeared was too long and tedious, and
after the robots appeared I couldn't quite understand why our
characters kept running from pub to pub. And worse, I didn't much care.

It just wasn't silly enough, witty enough, or clever enough to hold my
attention.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was mediocre at best. I laughed out loud a few
times--as did the rest of the audience, but other than that I found it
boring and actually nodded off twice. One of the girls sitting in front
of me stated, "well it wasn't a bad movie, but it wasn't that good
either", which I thought summed it up pretty well. The biggest shock
was that it had a 7.9 IMDb rating which normally indicates a
potentially "great" movie in any category--especially a comedy.
(anything above a 7 tends to consistently be what I consider a GOOD
movie).I give it a 5.5 or maybe 6. THere were several other movies in
the same theater with lower IMDb ratings that, in retrospect, I wished
I had spent my time and money on.
<|_=00=_|>
The World's End is about all about trying desperately to re-live former
glories and the film ends up mirroring that. You come away remembering
how great Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz were, and how sad it is to see
the same talent serving up something so lackluster.

The story has a promising concept, but it's a dud from the start. The
pub crawl idea simply doesn't work when meshed with the sci-fi
invasion. Because after the 'robots' are revealed there becomes no
reason for them to continue drinking. You can throw up a flimsy
explanation that they continue so as not to arouse suspicion, but it
doesn't wash. Put simply: once there are robots around, you do not care
if they get to The World's End.

Furthermore, I didn't much care if they got killed/replaced. None of
the five are very sympathetic and they are for the most part very
nondescript. These are not the kind of drinking buddies you want to go
on a ride like this with. Freeman, Marsan and Considine all play
similarly bland characters. They're really nothing but place-holders.
Pegg and Frost, having nailed the lovable doofus previously, obviously
wanted to play against type for this one and it backfires massively. If
Shaun and Ed were on this pub crawl, I'd be in. Gary and Andrew? I wish
I'd bailed after the first round.

Even the direction felt oddly off here. Of course there were the
obligatory half-second shots of pints being poured, keys turned, etc.
But it lacked the energy of Wright's previous work. In fact, it felt
like no-one's heart was really in it. The whole film was came off like
an idea they no longer believed in. Either that or they just haven't
got it anymore. A bit depressing either way.

It's sad when people you love serve up something you hate, but The
World's End is a turkey. I only wish I'd drunk twelve pints before
seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw it at a midnight premier last night (free Cornettos were given
out!) and myself and the rest of the audience were laughing throughout,
having a thoroughly enjoyable time. I thought it was great, definitely
on a par with Hot Fuzz, though - to me - not quite as good as Shaun of
the Dead, which is fair enough as it is one of my all-time favourites.
It is definitely a worthy close to the "trilogy" though, and it stands
up well against the other two.

Amongst the highlights were seeing another former Bond actor, even if
it was in a small role, along with various other regulars from the past
films and Spaced - Tyres, Julia Deaking (Marsha), Bill Nighy's voice,
Mark Heap, et al.

With a plot as ludicrous as this one the film relies on the strength of
it's leads to succeed, and they pull it off admirably. I liked that
there was a role reversal of Pegg and Frost's usual character dynamic,
with Frost especially noteworthy in his performance. The lads have
clearly come a long way over the years. Pegg is clearly having a whale
of a time, and carries us the audience along with him. Having such a
talented group of back-up actors in Marsan, Considine and Freeman helps
massively too.

I feel they missed a trick by not using the line "You've got blue on
you", though.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the thing about expectations. I loved Hot Fuzz and have watched
it five or six times with different people, enjoying it anew through
their reactions. The dream team are back together with some stellar
additions and the entire plot premise is based around that staple of
adolescence, the pub crawl. The trailer is fabulous and even gives a
nod to the collapsing fence gag but done by Pegg this time... What
could go wrong?

Quite a lot actually.

Pegg plays a character who is so unremittingly obnoxious that by the
time the moment of redemption heaves its rotting carcass over the hill
you really don't give a damn. He spends the first thirty minutes with
his mirthless grin, his back slapping enthusiasm and his voice turned
up to eleven and I was overwhelmed by the feeling that, in real life,
someone would have punched him by now.

The other characters are a pretty dull and predictable bunch too and
frankly by the time the perilous bits kicked in I really didn't care
who lived or died.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think this trilogy could get any better. However it somehow
exceeded by expectations. With fantastic direction from Edgar
Wright,smart writing from Wright and Simon Pegg and hilarious
performances from Pegg, Nick Frost and everyone else the World's end is
a great way to end the trilogy. The story focuses on a group of
childhood friends who go back to their hometown in order to repeat a
legendary pub crawl that ends with a pub known as the World's End.
However they realize that their whole town has been taken over by
robots and it's up to them to stop them from taking over the world. I
will admit that my only criticism of the film is that it does start off
a little slowly. The jokes felt a little stiff at times with their
execution and most of the humor was coming from Pegg's character.
However once the robots come in the movie does pick up the pace and
lives up to Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz The performances are very
funny with Simon Pegg and Nick Frost actually switching roles. Pegg is
more of the bumbling idiot whereas Frost is the straight man. The other
performance are also good with Martin Freeman,Paddy Considine, Rosamund
Pike and Eddie Marsan. I also loved the ending which has probably the
best ending out of any of the Cornetto trilogy movies Overall the movie
is incredibly funny despite having a slow start. It's a perfect mix of
comedy and science fiction. I hope there's more to come from these very
funny and talented guys.
<|_=00=_|>
I kept waiting for it to be funny. What you get is St. Elmo's fire with
robots, 4 grown up friends and 1 stuck in the past, and the end of the
world as we know it....except not entirely. As a buddy movie, it barely
connects. As science fiction it's not imaginative. It wasn't a complete
loss, though. Because I saw it at Cinemark and I had purchased the
refillable cups and popcorn tubs earlier this year, the wife and I got
two large drinks and two med popcorns for a total of $6. Sadly, that
was the highlight of the film. Just as I waited for The Butler to even
remotely connected to reality, for Two Guns to be anything other that
an insulting caricature of Texans, and Gangster Squad to be anything
other than gun play, I waited in vain for The World's End to get really
funny. It didn't even get more than slightly humorous.
<|_=00=_|>
Five pre-middle-aged male friends are drawn to Newton Haven, the site
of their failed dozen-pub crawl as students in 1990. They're led by
Gary King (Simon Pegg). He's the one who couldn't move on from that
night; couldn't get a job like them, or get married like them.
Reluctant revelry and bad-tempered banter ensues, before the gang
discovers that the residents of the town have changed. That is, they
have BEEN changed...

The World's End is considerably better than the ostensibly similar This
Is The End, a super-indulgent American comedy which mistook f-bombs for
humour and name-dropping for satire. Edgar Wright's film is indulgent
also, but at the service of audience enjoyment, as opposed to the
enjoyment of the players. The script is surprisingly dense and
intricate, many of its jokes arriving bittersweet. In an era when so
many comedies are heavily (and lazily) improvised, it's refreshing to
watch a tightly woven story unfold for once.

The action scenes are given equal attention, lovingly choreographed
like some kind of slapstick dance. Chief pugilist is Andrew, our
sort-of-hero, played by Nick Frost with remarkable agility. This
instalment is far less bloodthirsty than its predecessors - more Scott
Pilgrim than Shaun.

The rest of the group is made up of Paddy Considine, Eddie Marsan, and
Martin Freeman. The performances are all top-drawer, although it takes
time for their individual personalities to emerge. But then, the fact
that they are now practically indistinguishable may be the point - for
all their disapproval of Gary, they are the ones playing it safe.

What's most impressive about The World's End is the fact that it's
actually about something. Nostalgia is easy to indulge but difficult to
deconstruct, but this film genuinely aspires to explore the idea of
selective memory - as with a bad hangover, our memories tends to return
in subjective spasms, and the truth is only accessible by gathering
multiple witnesses. And the truth isn't always what it cracked up to
be.

The World's End is, for me, the best of the "Cornetto Trilogy". Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Five friends return to their hometown to relive a pub crawl they never
finished in their youth, however, they find their town has been invaded
by interstellar beings 'Blanks' and the crawl could literary kill them.

Director/writer Edger Wright returns with this British set, sci-fi,
beer-fuelled pub crawl yarn. Once again like Shaun of the Dead (2004)
and Hot Fuzz (2007) what makes this so likable is the Simon Pegg and
Nick Frost combination - the two have great chemistry, they're not only
funny but warm too. There's plenty of camaraderie between the five
friends mixed with the humorous restlessness of a school reunion.

The on location feel gives it an air of realism and captures a current
British small town perfectly. Wright once again shows that he's at the
top of his game, the action scenes are wonderfully executed and the
effects are superb. The soundtrack oozes nostalgia and accompanying
music score is fitting. Some jokes my go over some international
viewer's heads, but the majority cater for all. 

The first half of the film injects the most one liners and comedy
output with the old gang rejoining and their return to the town, while
the second is more action orientated when they go head to head with the
invaders. The beings glowing eyes are reminiscent of Demons (1985)
while the set up feels like Invasion of the Body Snatcher (1956/78)
only with a twist and the closing confrontation plays out like an
episode of Star Trek/Doctor Who followed by an outlandish
flash-forward.

There's plenty of homage's thrown in just for fun, Pegg as washed up
excitable alcoholic/drug intoxicated Gary King plays against the usual
nice guy, here he's a man you love to hate, you really want him to
succeed. Frost is kick-ass lovable. It's strength is that you care
about the fate of the characters. The supporting cast are excellent
including (surprisingly well cast) Rosamund Pike, Martin Freeman to
name a few and a surprise cameo by an ex-Bond.

If Shaun was on the money, and Hot Fuzz was wordy, The World's End is
somewhere in between. Highly recommended.
