
Seriously, people are so affected by reviews of films that if anything
comes out, it has to be the new Avatar or Dark Knight. The minute they
hear Jackie Chan in a kids movie, they already hate it! What gives? Yes
this movie is a kids cliché movie...but it has Jackie Chan in it! This
man has more charisma than any other actor that I know of. Last year he
made a violent dramatic film called Shinjuku Incident and now he plays
like a father character in this one! Now that's good transition into
being an actor! Anyway, don't want to spoil anything - it really is a
fun movie. Ignore the other reviews because they are fan-boys expecting
Jackie Chan to fight in Drunken Master III or Police Story 6 or Project
A III etc etc etc.

10 out of 10 easily for me...and I yawned during Avatar!
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for a decent, fun little movie you can watch with
your family in a relatively painless fashion then you've come to the
right place.

For some reason many action stars have supplemented their income by
appearing in movies with kids. Maybe they are trying to widen their
appeal from the hardcore action audience to the family friendly scene.
Maybe they're getting too old to keep up with the pace of a full-on
action movie. Maybe they have to pay alimony to 4 or 5 ex-wives. I
don't know why they do it, but it's almost becoming mandatory for these
guys to take on a kid or three as a side-kick and attempt to blend
action and family fare.

And these attempts almost always suck.

Does anyone honestly want to see Vin Diesel try to relate to kids? Or
Chuck Norris, the Rock or God help us, Burt Reynolds relate to kids? No
way. Don't even start with me about Hulk Hogan. During Santa with
Muscles I was terrified that he might not see a few of the kids and
accidentally step on them. Suffice to say, these movies might help a
star's sagging income, but they're usually a mediocre compromise
between two often disparate genres at best.

This one is a little better. It's still "action-light" but I think it
works because of the star, Jackie Chan. His character seems like a
genuinely nice guy who wants to get along with the mandatory bratty
kids. Vin, Hulk, Chuck, Burt and the rest, these guys play characters
that you know would much rather be killing, crushing or sleeping with
the enemy. Chan doesn't have that problem because of the types of
characters he often plays. His lighter presence matches up with the
tone of the movie and makes it seem ....hmm...not as weird and patently
unbelievable and maybe even patronizing as other movies of this kind.

Basically Jackie plays Bob Ho, a Chinese secret agent on loan to the
CIA. He retires so he can marry Gillian, a divorced single mom who is
looking for someone reliable. Her kids don't really cotton to Bob
though, so she decides to put her relationship with Bob on hold until
they're OK with her marrying Bob. Bob is saddened but resolves to win
the kids and his girl friend over.

Then, luckily, hi jinx ensue. One of Gillian's kids downloads some top
secret stuff off Bob's computer and before you can say Boris and
Natasha some evil Russians are in hot pursuit. After a variety of PG
style mishaps Bob captures the bad guys and wins the day, the girl
friend and the family. And like I said, it works because Jackie Chan
doesn't seem shoe-horned into the role.

The action is lighter than most Chan movies but it is inventive and
fun. The kids act a little more like real kids than Hollywood Central
Casting pods. The youngest kid in particular seems like real 4 year
old, goofy and light hearted. When she delivered the line" I don't
wanna be a princess, I wanna be a cyboooorg!" I cracked up. I actually
laughed more than a few times, which surprised me. As long as you
realize going in that this is just very light family entertainment I
think you'll be pleased.
<|_=00=_|>
Before taking the kids to see this, I read through some quick reviews
online (such as RogerEbert.com, etc.), and groaned thinking about the
90 minutes or so I'd have to sit watching this...not to mention the
annoying ads stuffed down your throat before the trailers even start.

You know, I'm not going to spend time trying to justify why I liked it,
laughed at the corny scenes and dialog, slapstick, etc. - but the
bottom line is I/we enjoyed it - despite it being a Chan film which
usually I'll pass on. How refreshing not to get any propaganda thrown
in your face, political innuendos/viewpoints - whatever, which
unfortunately you have to bear in even many kids & 'family' films being
pumped out these days ... just a basic family comedy which accomplishes
its purpose - to simply entertain and nothing else. What's wrong with
that, Mr. Ebert? I think you need to stay away from kids' films.
Anyone? 

So if you decide to see it, make your own judgment. The negative
reviews I read before seeing it prepared me to expect the
worst....which in turn actually helped it to be a quite a pleasant
surprise. Go figure. So far I find it amusing how some of the reviewers
on here spent so much time writing in detail how awful the film is,
spending the time, space, and effort into dissecting & critiquing it as
though it were the latest Coppola or Scorsese project. Who are they
writing to? Those expecting a modern cinematic classic (via Jackie
Chan) bringing them to standing applause ... or to parents like myself
taking their kids out to have a little fun? Right! LOL.
<|_=00=_|>
Bob Ho (Jackie Chan), a very successful CIA spy, is retiring from the
business. Although he likes his co-workers, including Colton (Billy Ray
Cyrus) and his boss (George Lopez), he want a "normal" life. Cornering
a Russian gangster will be his final "hurrah". In truth, Bob has fallen
in love with a beautiful divorcée, Gillian (Amber Valletta) and wants
to marry her. Trouble is, she has three cantankerous kids, Fallan
(Madeleine Carroll), Ian and Nora. Whenever he arrives at their house,
they find ways to humiliate him. So, when Gillian has to leave town to
attend to a sick father, Bob sees an opportunity for him to "get
closer" to the children. He'll babysit for them! After all, as Bob
says, he has brought down dictators so he can certainly deal with three
kids. Ha! Things go wrong almost immediately. Bob can't cook breakfasts
the kids will eat, he has trouble stopping squabbles and he finds
bedtime rules are difficult to enforce. Most seriously, Ian downloaded
a secret file from Bob's computer and now the Russian badguys are after
them! Can Bob manage to dodge bullets as he carpools the kiddies to
school? This is a cute family film that should please almost everyone.
It has a fine story, a zippy direction, a lot of action, and a nice
cast. Chan is, as always, a wonderfully comic performer whose smile can
light up the world. His inventive martial arts movements are mirthful,
too. The rest of the cast, including Carroll, Cyrus, Lopez, and the
others, are great, too. As for the settings, costumes, and production
values, they are of the top-shelf variety. Especially beautiful is the
suburban home where Gillian's family lives. All in all, everyone in the
family will spy a winner here, during a showing, and be pleased as
punch when the credits roll at film's end.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, people need to get a grip when they review a kids film! Sure the
premise has been used before & sure the bad guys are cheesy. They are
supposed to be.

This movie has OK action, corny dialogue, and an absolutely wonderful
message. Not every movie has to win awards to be great. Some movies are
simply great because you get to spend time with your kids & the flick
has a redeeming message.

This movie has no sex, no language, and merely comedic violence. What a
refreshing idea! I loved that my 13 year old boy & 10 year old daughter
enjoyed it & both got the message that family is who loves you not
whose blood runs in you.

I would highly recommend this movie to anyone with children or to
anyone who is sick of Hollywood "morals" being forced down our throats.
A very family friendly movie.

Come with a good attitude. Enjoy the popcorn & a coke. Watch a decent
flick & enjoy time with your family.
<|_=00=_|>
All right, I'll admit right off the bat that I didn't expect a high
quality movie when I picked this one and I didn't. What I did get was a
harmless 90 minutes with Jackie Chan doing what he does best, which was
executing his creatively funny stunts to entertaining effect. There's
also a filler story of him being a retiring spy who falls for a
divorced woman with three kids who, for the most part, don't think much
of him since they mainly think of him as a loser. Oh, and some bad
stereotypical Russian accents for the male and female villains too.
Still, like I said, Chan provides the main reason one would watch and
enjoy this movie and it's nice to occasionally see the supporting cast
also get in on the action. Besides, any movie where Chan sings a
lullaby to the youngest daughter in Chinese and a former resident of my
current hometown of Baton Rouge (Johnny Rivers) is heard singing
"Secret Agent Man" during the beginning can't be too bad...
<|_=00=_|>
OK, where story is concerned, there's nothing new here. Chan plays a
spy on the verge of retirement because he wants to settle down with his
girlfriend Gillian (Amber Valetta) and her annoying kids. Now the kids
hate Chan and Gillian has to leave for a couple of days in order to
spend some time with her ailing father. So who offers to look after the
kids? It's not hard to see how clichéd the story is but it is Jackie
Chan with his creative stunts who makes this a fun watch. The actor's
flair for comedy has become common knowledge and he is as energetic as
ever. Moreover, his pairing with the beautiful Valetta is refreshing.
Valetta doesn't get much to do other than play the usual
girlfriend/divorcée/mom of three but she holds her own. The rest of the
cast is forgettable. The child actors are initially very annoying. They
sort of grow on you as the film proceeds. Overall, the film is nothing
out of the ordinary. It doesn't even compare to a majority Chan's
superior works but at best it's an amusing one-time watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Jackie Chan is an Icon, I am a fan of his... his films have always
entertained, hell ya, he was entertaining even if the material wasn't.
However, Chan's solo-hero return disappoints in 'The Spy Next Door'.

Chan plays a ex-spy who turns a babysitter of 3, the idea itself is a
copy and paste 'Pacifier', which offers nothing new. The film begins
well, but slips right after 30-minutes into the film. Brain Levant's
direction is mundane, and the writing is flawed. Surprisingly, even the
Action is is very okay. In acting, Chan looks least interested, though
he can still pull of the stunts, at least, some of it. George Lopez is
wasted. Billy Ray Cyrus throws a few expressions here and there. Amber
Valletta is passable.

'The Spy Next Door' is a major letdown, it doesn't offer solid
entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
While we anticipate Jackie Chan's Asian production with Little Big
Soldier this Lunar New Year, he continues his journey in the West with
yet another kid and family friendly production with The Spy Next Door,
which would fit into the Disney Channel stable given Chan's penchant to
appeal to the lowest denominator to draw in the family crowd, and you
know just how safe the stunts of Hollywood tend to be when appealing to
this demographic.

Which leaves The Spy Next Door pretty much a departure from
contemporary adventure flicks which tend to draw upon violence and gore
in its action sequences, to keep it within a safe, acceptable rating.
Jackie Chan plays Bob Ho, a man with as much personality as his any of
his past heroes, which tend to be cop / secret agent belonging to the
Hong Kong / Chinese police / spy agency, and here he's on loan to the
CIA because of warming Sino-US relations. For years he's been helping
out and solving what the Americans cannot, keeping in line with
Hollywood's trend of putting China in good light, and he does so
undercover and under fake glasses, living next to a divorcée (played by
Amber Valletta) whom he fancies, and her three kids.

They do not know his identity as his cover is as a geeky pen salesman,
and like any super- hero film, has to keep his identity, abilities and
tools a secret, which you know will be threatened for exposure as he
grows closer to the family, wanting to take his relationship with
Valletta's Gillian to the next step, and working toward seeking
acceptance from her children, only for a Russian criminal to escape and
threaten the world's oil reserve, and having to grapple with a mole
within the CIA. Sounds complicated, but it actually isn't, really,
especially when the main villain (Magnus Scheving) spends a lot of his
time trying to look trendy and fashionable.

If there's something that will appeal, it'll be two items. First up the
opening credit montage which played like a celebration to Chan's
illustrious career as an action hero, where you get to see clips from
classics such as Hong Kong's Armour of God when he was at his peak, to
disasters like Hollywood's Tuxedo when he sold out to the West. Then
there's even some drawing from Chan's own real life experiences in his
character's monologue about love and family, exploited to add certain
emotional gravitas in an otherwise empty film that spends fleeting
moments in its underdeveloped subplots about the adventures in
parenting/babysitting, from the youngest daughter with a fetish for
anything pink, the only son who's a school-bully fodder trying too hard
to be cool in school, and an eldest daughter with the usual rebellious
teenage attitude problem.

With Jackie Chan growing older and slowing down, this shows up in the
carefully crafted action sequences, which while I didn't notice any
obvious signs of a stunt double, the stunts performed here are quite
the walk in the park for Chan many years ago, where I remember being
thrilled by the money-shot stunt sequences that each of his films would
highlight. Of late there's none and he seems to be relying on his past
laurels, though "improvised" fights and acrobatics that Chan is famous
for, still has enough legs to entertain, especially when battling the
bad guys in closed quarters using everyday household items. If
anything, there's a number of obvious wire-work that you know Hollywood
would dabble with, either for stunt safety reasons, for laughs, or just
to plain exaggerate.

The Spy Next Door works as a family popcorn movie, keeping a lot of
things safe and will entertain any 5 year old kid. Stay tuned during
the end credits with hilarious outtakes from the film, and you see that
JC still struggles with the English language.
<|_=00=_|>
That's its french title.

With the kid, we originally wanted to see "Schreck 4" in 3D but it was
sold out. Thus, we changed for this one because the kid likes very much
Jackie Chan and as it involved kids, I knew that mine would feel
related.

As the movie started, I thought that Chan was already an icon in my
teens so this guy is really tireless and he worths an official
recognition for his dedication toward world cinema.

However I felt a bit disappointed because the story didn't take place
in Asia but in a deep American suburb. So, there wasn't much of
exoticism.

Fortunately, it happens that the story was a funny coincidence with my
recent experience. Jackie and I were given the responsibility to take
care after kids while the lone mother was away. It was thus cool to see
our different or similar reactions.

Beyond this, the movie is a bit slow and lacks of rhythm. The kids
aren't engaging so the action was welcomed. Even as a nanny, Chan had
to fight and I'm dubious if it was really him in certain sequences (I
would need a frame to frame analysis to judge).

At the end, it was cool to see the bloopers, to notice that the mother
was Amber Valetta (who seems to have aged for 20 years since "Hitch")
and the kid liked the movie! Thus, mission accomplished!
