
Your Highness is a goofy movie from the Pineapple Express guys. My
husband and I loved this movie, we didn't stop laughing, and neither
did anyone else in the theater. Danny McBride is hilarious. James
Franco and Zooey Deschanel have an infectious sweetness that makes you
want to run home and proclaim your undying love! Natalie Portman gave
an amazing performance as always and it was nice to see her in a
comedic role. Of course Your Highness is no Black Swan, but if you're
looking for a good laid back, feel good movie to keep you rolling, this
is the one for you, I have NO idea why this movie is being bashed, it
must be from people with no sense of humor or spirit of fun! Go see it
today,you won't regret it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this on DVD last night, shamefully because of what i had
heard around the time of its cinema release. Well that taught me a
lesson.

The only accountable reason i can arrive at for all the negative
feedback i heard from critics and the public is that i feel they were
expecting something a little more Holy Grail, because of the setting
and the English accents and instead i felt this is more Blazing
Saddles, very un-pc, whilst gently goosing (oo-er) its chosen genre.

It is immature and crude, but the laughs were consistent enough, its a
comedy notion which would usually have a B grade budget, but has
somehow been made with an A grade budget and for me that was part of
its charm. Its like the slackers broke into the set of Lord of the
Rings and mucked about all weekend and managed to film it.

Maybe i did the right thing in retrospect, sometimes its better to
watch something after the dust has settled, just watch this cold and
i'll bet you'd enjoy it. In years to come i think this film will have
quite a loyal following, across a certain demographic, including me.
<|_=00=_|>
Your Highness is so underrated but it's totally comprehensible. The
movie is a satire about medieval action and dungeons tales movies, but
it's not cheesy as ordinary satires like Scary Movie series (among
others), it has its own story, with its own characters and originality
and plays with clichés all the time, making the characters look
pathetic when acting like heroes that needs to complete quests as in a
RPG game, a satire that seems much more like Mel Brooks classic titles.

People are claiming it offensive and aggressive for the extensive use
of sexual language and also for some explicit nude scenes. For sure it
is, and this negative response from these people is just a reflexion of
the puritan hypocrite society we live in, because if you laugh about
Eddie Murphy's Nutty Professor farting with his family for about 10
minutes, you aren't able to say that You Highness is offensive or
aggressive for its verbal content, first of all because I'm talking
about a movie that seems silly and a waste of time, but in reality it
is a very intelligent and interesting one, and for sure, one of the
funniest movies and the best in its satire genre that I've seen
since... once upon a time.

It's pure entertainment, the dialogs are sometimes taken from a porn
movie. The acting is great. James Franco, as Fabious, the charming
prince, is fantastic, always happy, empowering and in love, making his
character seems that was taken from a fairytale, even his movements and
expressions are totally inspired by everything a charming prince means
and does. Danny McBride, as Thadeous, is completely the opposite, the
real anti-hero image, full of envy, anger, hate and jealousy, searching
and making everything just to satisfy his very own ego. And every
character is ridiculous as it should be.

Also the movie is full of action and special effects. Screenwriters
Danny McBride and Ben Best did an excellent job together creating an
uncommon tale based on mythologies and sex into a medieval and puritan
world, that's why is so funny, because you never expect so serious
characters talking about sex and genitals like something simple and
ordinary. Like another one said, it's not a movie for those who are
easily offended, but for the ones who might get its tone, will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just seen this at a preview screening in London.

I'm not actually a fan of low brow humour but I found myself laughing
and chuckling throughout this filthy mouthed, very gory, medieval sword
and sorcery fantasy comedy. Its mainly because the cast is very likable
with its main leads resonating off each other in this pool of silliness
which makes the film highly entertaining. While James Franco and Danny
McBride provides the laughter and brotherly banter, Natalie Portman
strides in with stunning gravitas as a deceptive sexy swashbuckling
heroine.

The storyline is a simple action adventure journey to save a damsel in
distress from a warlord. But this not a naked gun style comedy, rather
a humorous homage to classic fantasy movies such as Dark Crystal, Conan
the Barbarian, Princess Bride etc. What's surprising is that the
adventure is rather genuine and exciting with a huge dose of special
effects that a comedy shouldn't really be allowed to have. I believe
the film was given a normal comedy level budget but they certainly seem
to have made clever use of it with some impressive special effects.

Yes there is much sexual jokes and innuendos and a heavy reliance on
uncharacteristic medieval expletive adjectives to force a laugh but the
charm of the characters makes them get away with it.

Having said all of the above, there were clearly some pacing issues and
missed opportunities for this to be an even funnier and smarter movie
but as it is, it offers plenty of entertainment, fun and laughs for a
Friday/Saturday evening at the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was made to make you laugh and that is exactly what it does.
No real depth or signifigant underlying message to speak of, just a lot
of raunchy humor to split your sides. I laughed the whole way through
the movie and you will too if you have at least one funny bone in your
body. There is so much filthy humor in this movie that is in no way
suitable for children, but hey we adults need some idiocracy of our own
every now and then and that is exactly what this movie brings to the
table. Purely brilliant idiocracy. The best kind there is. It has a
great cast and Danny McBride is hilarious as usual. Definitely worth
watching. Be forewarned, it is DIRTY!!!
<|_=00=_|>
In the immortal words of Sidney Deane as played by Wesley Snipes in
White Men Can't Jump; 'The sun even shines on a dogs ass some days'.
There I was minding my own business going to watch a man fire darts
from his butt hole and in 3D no less, when a kindly lady with a
clipboard asks me if I wanted free tickets to a screening on Wednesday.
Being the sort that never looks a gift horse in the mouth and seeing
the title of said movie on the clipboard I said 'of course my good
lady, I will relieve you of the burden of your tickets'. My details
were taken and I was all set to see Your Highness on Wednesday. You see
this is the latest film from David Gordon Green, the art-house director
who turned his hand to comedy with Pineapple Express and stars Danny
McBride, James Franco, Natalie Portman and Zooey Deschanel. I knew the
premise and I couldn't wait to see what they did with it.

The film begins with Prince Thadeus (McBride) in a dwarf village with
his servant/sidekick Courtney, he has clearly upset the little people
as he is about to be hanged. Due to a miscalculation about the length
of the rope Thadeus and Courtney escape back to the kingdom where
Thadeus's brother Fabious (Franco) has returned from another successful
quest after defeating the evil Leezar (Justin Theroux) and won the hand
of his new bride to be Belladonna (Deschanel). The kingdom revels in
Fabious's success and once again the oafish Thadeus is pushed to the
side, preferring instead to womanize and smoke wizard weed. At the
happy couple's wedding Leezar returns and kidnaps the virgin Belladonna
with the intention of impregnating her with a dragon when the twin
moons are aligned (or as Leezar politely refers to it 'The Fuckening').
Fabious must once again go on a quest to rescue his beloved with his
trusty band of knights. Thaddeus is given a choice; go on the quest
with his brother and man up or get out of the kingdom. So Fabious and
Thadeus set off on the quest where they will encounter a village of
nude savage women, A wizard puppet who is also a possible pederast,huge
mythical snake beasts, a horny minotaur and vengeful vixen Isabel
(Portman). Thadeus must learn to be a hero, handle a sword and woo the
fiery Isabel who is on a quest of her own.

Your Highness could have so easily become just another spoof along the
lines of Epic Movie or Meet the Spartans but surprisingly just as the
action was treated seriously in Pineapple Express, the fantasy elements
here are just as important as the comedy. The special effects and
production design are very impressive and the film certainly looks epic
using the country of Ireland as its backdrop. There are evil witches
firing lightning all over the place, there are mechanical beasts right
out of the original Clash of the Titans and there is a weird
hand/pit/monster thing that is cool as hell. Its also mega gory, limbs
are hacked off and there is plenty of blood. Of course there is silly
humor, very silly. If you didn't get Green's last comedy you may
struggle here although Your Highness is probably the better film. This
could well be the film that breaks Danny McBride into super stardom as
he is the main star here. He delivers his lines in a pretty flawless
English accent and the character is a classic spoiled loser who must
learn to be a man. Just wait until you see the scene where he takes a
trophy from a kill, its hilarious and gross. James Franco is being
himself but also gets plenty of laughs jabbing away at the image of the
handsome prince who writes poetry while also being handy with a sword.
Portman is her usual brilliant self and for all her male fans there is
a bathing scene that will get your temperature up. The main cast are
supported by some more traditional thespian types. Toby Jones plays a
creepy town crier type, Charles Dance is the king, Damian Lewis plays a
treacherous knight and Justin Theroux nearly steals the whole thing as
Leezar. Previously best known for smaller roles in David Lynch films
and writing Tropic Thunder, Theroux is a comic revelation here
delivering many of the films best lines with prosthetic teeth and a
hideous wig. I laughed a lot and loudly and so did the packed audience.
The script is written by McBride with his frequent collaborator Ben
Best and clearly they have a lot of affection for the 1980's fantasy
movies they (and I) grew up with. Films like Krull, Clash of The
Titans, Hawk the Slayer, Willow, Conan and Beastmaster are all
wonderfully homaged and never poked fun at. It really could have died
on its ass for being so ambitious but in the hands of a craftsman like
David Gordon Green it works wonders.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess this movie isn't for everyone. we were 3 people, two guys and
one girl. she fell asleep.. but we loved it, so maybe its a guy
movie..? if you think blood, unnecessary violence, fine women, and
explicit language is a good thing in a comedy, then maybe you will also
enjoy this one. I think its one of he ,most enjoyable and funny action
comedies for a while. the characters are good, great actors and Portman
is as talented as she is candy for the eye. the story is hilarious,
lots of funny moments and absurdities. a non stop pace. I am really
surprised it hasn't got a higher rating, I think that in time this will
be considered a classic, I mean, whats not to like?! an awesome
movie.(the only reason I don't give it 10 is because I'm stingy, it
certainly deserves a 10:)

I totally recommend it:)
<|_=00=_|>
So this is one of those movies you get to enjoy no matter how stupid
they are. "You Highness" mocks everything about medieval time movies,
kings and knights, etc. by applying exaggeratively sarcastic and
cynical humor. The humor is so superficially dull, that it really is
funny due to the way it is applied to a movie about the middle ages.
It's almost like a porno version of "Shreck", harshly speaking. Making
jokes about genitals, sex, masculinity an such. It absolutely is
nothing more than a movie to get some laughs out of, since the plot is
definitely NOT on of the most superb stories you've ever seen in a
movie, and the acting is rather fake, for the exception of Natalie
Portman and maybe James Franco. Which is actually quite funny how two A
list actors put a lot of effort into a movie so dumb. And another good
thing about this film is that it actually looks really cool sometimes,
especially at the end during the climax. So there you have it. It
definitely isn't meant to be praised as a masterpiece of a movie. Just
sit back and enjoy the stupidity of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this film. It is not going to win any Oscars, and is pretty
rude at times, but anyone who is a fan of Eastbound and Down will like
this. It is cheesy at times, knowingly so, but does entertain all the
way through. It is not trying to be ground breaking and original, it is
a comedy and does what is says on the tin. Maybe do not watch the
trailer though as the best bits are in there! Do not go to see it if
you are easily offended, it is full of bad language, crude sex
references and is quite in your face. I was heartily amused, and would
recommend this for a light hearted, entertaining romp. The cast is
strong. Too often, critics pan films which Jo public actually really
enjoy, so judge for yourself based on what actual people say, not
according to reviewers, who often are quite wrong about what people
enjoy watching.
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting, comedic twist on the 'Fantasy Quest' genre! Lot's of
'schoolboy' humour and a large number of expletives, kept me
entertained anyway!

It's a sort of 'Krull' meets 'The Inbetweeners' and I found myself
laughing occasionally and smiling throughout! How they managed to get a
pretty impressive cast, I don't know but, it all worked well, in my
humble opinion.

It was Danny MacBride's previous incarnations which enticed me to watch
the movie and he didn't disappoint! Almost as politically incorrect as
many of his other roles albeit with a slightly anglicised accent, added
to the fun.

It's likely to be panned by the critics but, if you want a light
hearted romp for 105 minutes, don't mind gratuitous references to
unnatural sexual acts, unexpected 21st Century expletives in a Medieval
environment and Natalie Portman saying the odd 'F' word, then you may
well enjoy this.

I have only written one previous review, for a film which had good
reviews and I thought was crap! 'Your Highness' is the complete
opposite, in my opinion and, as such has prompted my second review.

I will watch it again, not with my youngest daughter who is an ordained
minister but with my eldest who is an A & E Nurse. Say no more.
