
I'd like to start off with what is good in this movie, for the list
will be infinitely shorter than what is bad.

Good points: 1. Bogdan Stupka ('Taras Bulba') performance. His presence
in the movie is the only excuse to see the movie in the first place.

2. Attention to detail in costumes and observing cossack traditions.
The movie can be a good reference for re-enactors of Zaporizka Sich and
Rzech Pospolita of XVI century.

Bad points: 1. Patriotic speeches comprise over 50% of the total movie
time. Every single cossack having at least one line in the movie, had
to proclaim a speech about the never-ending glory of orthodox faith and
Russian land before dying. I mean, it is OK once. It can be touching.
However, in Taras Bulba there are 5 or 6 nearly identical speeches
within 5 minutes span. Around the third speech/death sequence it gets
really boring and you think 'will you please just shut up and die?' The
word 'Russian' appears in every other sentence of the movie. I mean, I
know those are Russians who make the movie with the aid from the
government. I bet, anyone from outside USSR will return from the
theater with the firm belief those were Russians fighting Poles. But
hey, the entire thing actually happens in Ukraine! Yet, reference to
Ukraine is carefully avoided and quickly mentioned only twice in the
entire movie.

2. Battle scenes. The movie attempts at Braveheart realism with
close-ups of wounds. Which would have been OK, if they haven't shown
close-ups for nearly EACH SINGLE CUT AND PIERCE in the movie. Coupled
with unimpressive execution of one-on-one duels and poorly organized
mass scenes (you get the full screen of cossacks and Poles walking (not
running!) chaotically without any apparent purpose or sense of
direction, it creates seriously sad impression.

3. Performance of the younger cast. Vdovichenkov is no longer a
criminal from 'the Bumer' (the BMW) but his line 'Ty chto skazal?!'
(What have you just said?) was performed in the XVI century church in
the same manner as previously at the criminals' meeting in 1990s.
Younger son, Andriy (Petrenko) is not nearly as passionate as his
father, Taras, (Bogdan Stupka). Yeah, I betray my motherland and my
father, because I love you. No big deal.

4. Soundtrack is as awful as in Bortko's Master and Margarita.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolute crap! 

A mock on a great drama, as if it was in directors intentions to spit
in Gogol's and viewers' faces.

When the third dying person begins another tirade on how much he loves
his country (which has no relation to what Gogol wrote and even never
was true since cossacks have always been the free people) you start to
expect American flag to wave on the background.

I can't believe that this piece of dogsh.. is made by director of the
classic "Sobachye Serdtse". 

I don't want to believe!
<|_=00=_|>
Bortko set out to make an apparent epic here, but sadly, missed an
opportunity to tell a great story. I researched Gogol before watching
this film; the essence of the story is covered in the film's plot. What
Gogol did NOT include was the Russian polemic which slaps you in the
face at every turn in this film.

I agree with some of the other reviewers that casting and costuming
were great! Fabulous actors, wonderful faces, but a sodden, leaden,
boring script deprived them of a chance to display their true talent.
Bogdan Stupka is always a pleasure to watch, and for a better version
of these times, watch Hoffman's 1999 Polish epic "Ogniem i mieczem", in
which Stupka plays Bogdan Khmelnitski.

The patriotic speeches, both in the sich and during the battle death
scenes, slowed the movie to a dead crawl (no pun intended!) and greatly
detracted from the film's impact. As others have noted, this is truly a
Ukrainian story, not a Russian one. Ukraine was mentioned only twice in
the movie (I counted). Endless speeches (particularly with a slit
stomach) about the sacred Russian soil really have no place in a story
about Polish/Ukrainian struggles, and only serve to underscore that the
film's budget was heavily subsidized by the Russian government. At a
time when the East and West need to work together to solve this world's
problems, western xenophobia seems highly counterproductive. Such films
only widen the divide and hurt us all as creatures of this planet.

One note about the score: nice idea again, but endlessly repetitious. I
recognized in the main theme a variation of a famous Ukrainian carol
"Novo radist stala", which I have sung many times, but it was extremely
overdone. A little variation would have been nice. The repetitive score
reminded me of another score for Bortko's "The Idiot", a wonderful
Russian serial based on the Dostoevsky novel (2003). More endless
repetition of the musical theme was the one negative in an otherwise
flawless ensemble of actors and a compelling story.

In summary, this film was watchable but mostly boring. Some of the
horrendously violent scenes made me cross myself. Not a total waste of
two hours; however, it left me feeling that it could have been so much
better with a little more effort and less propaganda.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie just yesterday and I remembered the book I read in high
school. Book I remember vaguely, read it a long time ago, but I did
like this movie, especially because of the excellent play by the main
actor and the story about the Cossack lifestyle. Novel is written in
the high romantic era during the boom of nationalist feelings and its
well represented on the screen (although I am not so sure was there so
much Tsarists love with the Cossack when many of them were escaped
surfs). Cossack lifestyle is hard, based on war, plunder and raiding
like Mongols or Vikings of ages past and this movie shows that life and
consequences of living it - hatred by more "civilized" Poles and Turks
or struggle with other nomadic raiders like Tatars. Cossacks because of
that fight against everyone, are suspicious to everyone (like Jews) and
are only shown to trust those of their own Orthodox faith. Actors that
portrayed Cossacks are mostly good, especially Taras Bulba. By the end
of the movie you really become one with him and start to understand him
and his struggle against the world while he is losing more and more.
Poles are well done, they have every right to hate the Cossacks with
them constantly raiding their towns. Final scene when Polish colonel
when he spares his daughters son is also strong, you then see the
glimpse of Taras Bulba if he was on the other side. Greatest flaw in
this movie are special effects, rain that falls from clear sky,
"wounds" in some cases along with soundtrack that could have been done
a lot better when I see how much was invested in this movie. They are
so weak that look like they were done for some small budget student
movie, not a blockbuster financed by the Russian government. It is
clearly seen that this is a Russian propaganda movie, but a very weak
one, the only time I was really moved was with the ominous Taras
Bulba's last words when they were burning him alive, the rest of the
Cossacks haven't managed to give that same feel. Overall, good movie,
but the ridiculous failure of the special effects reduces rating
greatly.
<|_=00=_|>
.... And I guess that's the problem. Unabashed patriotism is OK for
some, not for others. The Zaporozhians' battles in defence of
Orthodoxy, when it was being attacked on two fronts, is a story that
must not be forgotten. The film is impressive in its historical detail,
costumes, etc.... the music (and some of the acting) is a little
melodramatic, but I think it's a fitting thing for a rousing film. The
scene of cossacks writing a letter to the Ottoman Sultan (an actual
event from 1675) is reminiscent of the famous Repin painting depicting
it. A grittier, less glam/swashbuckling version than the Yul Brynner
classic, but that's what this story needs. It will never get wide
theatrical release in North America because it is too honest, and not
politically correct enough. Who cares. It's in my video collection, and
it is becoming a favourite quickly.
<|_=00=_|>
This laughably propagandistic movie from Russia is based upon one of
the wars between the Poles and the Cossacks. Along with the incredibly
irritating Russian tendency to vocally translate other languages
instead of using subtitles, this movie features bad melodramatic music
and excessive dialogue, not to mention stock sound effects. They didn't
even wait for an overcast day to play scenes set during rainy days;
nope, they went ahead and did the scenes with a rain bar on a sunny
day. About the only redeeming factors of this movie are the costumes
and the weaponry (multiple shot pieces and an arquebus both make an
appearance). Otherwise, you can watch this if you wish to have a good
laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to see this movie and it was entertaining. Fans of the
show Vikings will appreciate the gritty, authentic characterizations of
the Cossacks with their fierce personas, bushy mustaches and shaved
forelocks. The Cossacks were a collection of hard-living freebooters,
many criminal refugees, who fled to the wilds of the Ukraine from all
parts of Russia to live independently. Riding in packs with disregard
for life and limb, they were the Christian counterpart to the mounted
Tartar hordes they often sparred with, like two Medieval motorcycle
gangs.

Unfortunately the film ultimately degenerates into an appalling
propaganda piece with a slew of nobly dying Cossacks declaring their
love for Mother Russia and angry heartfelt wishes that Russia and its
brand of Orthodox Christianity will someday conquer the world. If this
was a Muslim film expressing the same type of sentiments people would
be screaming for drones to take action on the filmmakers.

Even creepier, several of the dying declarations and other venomous
speeches target Poland - and although the Poles are the enemies of the
Cossack horde in the film, the message is clearly intended to transcend
the time period, with expressed wishes that "the Polacks" will be sorry
someday. In today's political climate, the film is undoubtedly a cry to
arms for Putin's burgeoning reactionary groupies, who publicly dream of
restoring Russia's Soviet era empire.

The film spends way too much time on these propaganda points and far
too little on story development. The love story so critical to the
storyline is choppy and unconvincing, with the Cossack traitor allowed
to enter the Polish princess's boudoir and have his way with her while
her family and retainers blithely ignore his entrance. While the
Medieval Poles were reputedly more sexually liberated than their
European neighbors, it is unthinkable that a traitorous knight-
in-training would be allowed such liberties with a noble. On top of
that, the young Cossack was enthusiastically assailing the castle walls
just a day before. (The relationship in the Tony Curtis version of this
story was much more ably developed.)

If the movie ended about three-quarters of the way in, the bits of
propaganda scattered throughout might pass for authentic dialog - as
would the "hero" Taras' scorn for the Jewish merchant, portrayed as a
groveling money grubber. But just when you're sure the movie is over,
the battle is extended and the litany of cornball dying words is
unleashed... to go on and on and on...

With the recent events in the Ukraine over disputed territory, one can
only wonder whose side the old independent Cossacks would take today.
"Mother Russia" or a free Ukraine?
<|_=00=_|>
Bogdan Stupka. in fight to create a credible Taras. a literary gem. who
becomes a political tool. that is all. the film has a lot of sins but
the basic problem is the ambition to create a Hollywood blockbuster as
support for the Kremlin 's interest. the fragile beauty of the book is
lost. the Kozaks becomes Russian puppets. the Pole society is victim of
a Manicheism who not convince and not impress. the entire story becomes
an aggressive political speech. sure, many historical films from the
East Europe are illustrations of the same recipes. but under the
Communism regime. and the delicate problem is to transform Ukraine in a
part of Russia, to use special effects for ignore the senses of book,
to destroy a noble idea for a not real decent result. short, a Russian
story. full of nationalism. and not convincing . useful for a kind of
public . and not more that.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, this version of the great classic does not do it great
justice. Bohdan Stupka's great performance does not elicit much
response in either Vladimir Vdovichenkov as the brave Ostap or Igor
Petrenko as the tragically star-struck Andrii. Partly, this looks like
a poor script as the lines follow just too closely the original text of
Gogol. Partly, this goes to the director's focus which was far more on
the settings than dialogues, except when delivering propaganda
one-liners a la Eisenstein or Dovzhenko. 

Overall, this version of Taras Bulba seems just too much of an agitprop
forthe new Cossack village creed of militant Russian patriotism and
pride in martial traditions of the legendary steppe marauders which
finds its natural outlet in heavy drinking and voting loyalty to
Yedinaya Rossija.
<|_=00=_|>
In same time, an error and a masterpiece. A film in which history is
only an political instrument. Strong, hilarious and aggressive. And a
movie in which every detail is explore in fantastic way. So, the result
is a schizoid work. Shadows of Jirinovsky and medieval air. A fake
Ukraine and romantic sticks. A huge picture and a boring manifesto. But
the delicate fact is the absence of Gogol. The director, in past maker
of spectacular pages of lost history, is in this sad case only
organiser of a Russian propaganda show. Enthusiastic and full of good
intentions, he crushes the original story. The Christmas tree is
impressive; but only ornaments. The wood is far of the public. It is
difficult to say if "Taras Bulba" is a disaster. The crumbs are good
taste. The cake is old and strange. But the memory is more tempt by the
beautiful coins and Kosacs costumes.
