
Maybe I liked this movie because I had such subterranean expectations
for it. From the previews, and, indeed, just the title, I was certain
it was going to be stupid rather than funny.

But I went out to dinner with my friends Saturday night, and after
dinner, to my chagrin, everybody had a reason to bail on the evening,
and I found myself alone, at 9pm, with nothing to do, and not wanting
to go home. So I went to the theater to play movie roulette. Hot Tub
Time Machine was playing almost immediately, and the next movie after
that wouldn't be for another 45 minutes. I *almost* turned around and
went home, so sure was I that this film was going to be stupid rather
than funny. But I figured, what the heck, I'm here...

Well, the movie *is* stupid. But it's funny too. And what's more, it
knows it's stupid and makes no bones about it. At no time does it ever
take itself seriously. Now, I could have done without some of the
extremely gross bits. Happily there aren't *too* many of them. And I'm
sure I didn't get all the 80's references; although I did live through
the period, I largely avoided popular culture at that time, and still
couldn't tell you most of the bands or big hit songs of the time (or of
today, for that matter).

But I have to confess, the movie did make me laugh. Not all throughout,
but I did have a number of genuine, laugh-out-loud moments. And plenty
of chuckles and smiles. And I found myself genuinely liking the
characters, and finding them to have a bit more depth than I expected
from a film entitled "Hot Tub Time Machine". And the basic theme of the
loss of the zany, free-form fun of youth, and regret of the relative
staid blandness of "adult" life, is a theme which resonated with me.

Now, let's get real. This is no "Citizen Cane", "Vertigo", or "The
Godfather". Nor is a timeless comedy masterpiece like "Airplane",
"Blazing Saddles", or "Monty Python and the Holy Grail". Someone here
displayed gross unfairness in trying to compare it to a classic '30's
comedy, but obviously this is not "It Happened One Night", "Bringing Up
Baby", or "Duck Soup", and if you go to the theater expecting it to be,
the fault lies with you. What it is is a silly, fun, enjoyable way to
pass a couple hours. Not deep, not profound, not brilliant. Not
timeless, not enduring.

But not bad. And not nearly as stupid as it looked like it was going to
be. And these days, that's not too bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a screening of this film and didn't expect very much out of
it. However, this is probably one of the funniest movies I've seen in a
while. I laughed almost the entire length of the movie, which is
something that hasn't happened in a long time. The movie is extremely
well-written. John Cusack really carries the movie with a great
performance. Chevy Chase really doesn't do much of anything. Comedy was
sort of in the vein of "The 40 Year Old Virgin." The film doesn't take
itself seriously at all, which is part of the fun. It doesn't really
get bogged down too much in the science of time travel, and focuses
mostly on these four guys trying to get the hell out of 1986. A great
watch. Very entertaining. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Although as a warning this movie had some pretty intense language, and
very crude humor I enjoyed it so much. The actual plot of this movie as
depicted on the trailer is in no way realistic at all which adds to
it's humor. Isn't that what we go to the movies for? A little escape of
reality for a while? This movie from first moment to last is hilarious
in every way and the jokes keep rolling. This movie is like all of the
greater 80's movies piled into one with a mix of Back to the Future.
Every character in this movie had a significant number of hilarious
jokes, and the entire audience was laughing hysterically. In my opinion
this was better than The Hangover because every 2 minutes I found
myself laughing harder and harder at every joke. Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, let me say that I did rather enjoy this film.

Yes, it is a rather (read: VERY) far-fetched premise. And yes, it does
have some massive plot holes mainly because it completely disregards
the space-time continuum. But this film is not designed to have you
focus on these things. It is only after viewing that you realise just
how stupid the whole thing is and where all the problems with
time-lines etc, etc lie. Yet, I still found myself wanting to see it
again.

The main characters play their parts very well. All the actors must
have known exactly what they were getting themselves into and they are
all willing participants. I did especially enjoy Rob Corddry's part as
a washed up, dead end, dead beat alcoholic. His character was the
fulcrum for the majority of the humour, both situational and verbal.
Craig Robinson bought the light-hearted humour, as well as some of the
best punch lines of the film. John Cusack played the 'serious'
dramatic/comedic role and Clark Duke has his moments while helping to
aim the whole package toward a younger demographic. Even the secondary
characters have their moments of comedy glory.

There are genuine laugh out loud moments spread pretty evenly
throughout which are based on plot and character, not just gross-out
humour. And although gross-out humour is present it sits well because
the film doesn't rely on it alone to deliver the laughs.

Another thing I found very entertaining about this movie was that as
the characters travelled back to the 80's it was almost as if the
humour did too. I don't mean to say that things descended into a
'Porkie's Revisited' or anything like that, but there were definite
elements of the 80's present in the way the humour and characters come
across. Think back to scenes you remember off the top of your head from
Back To The Future, Caddy Shack, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, hell - even
Breakfast Club. Hot Tub Time Machine just seemed to capture some of
that and revive it for today's audiences.

I would recommend HTTM to anyone with a sense of humour not wanting to
think too deeply and wanting to be entertained for 90 minutes.

Like I said at the top of this review... There are plot holes. There is
no recognition of the space-time continuum - actually, the future
repercussions of the character's actions would have never worked out
like they do. And, really, at no point does the film actually make
sense.

BUT... I was still entertained. I still laughed. I still wanted to see
where the characters went. I still find myself remembering lines from
the film and smiling. And, even after all I've just written, I'd still
watch it again.

Can't say more than that now, can I?
<|_=00=_|>
Hell, it certainly kept me damn entertained. In this day and age it
takes real comedy chops to pull off poo and vomit gags with such expert
timing. The film embraces the absurdity of time travel and doesn't
focus too much on the whys. All four of the male leads are brilliant,
especially Corddry, who pulls off one of the great movie arseholes,
without completely detaching himself from the audience. There are some
classic lines, mostly coming from insults, and the film doesn't rely
too much on date humour (just a few references to e-mail etc.) It
cleverly spits in the face of the butterfly effect and relishes its
characters manipulation of time, whilst showing that some things can't
be avoided. A very entertaining comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
While the world was still recovering from the over-hyped Todd Phillips
movie a smaller, quieter, but funnier movie slipped into cinemas and
made a little splash. Both feature groups of troubled men looking for a
good time, but Hot Tub Time Machine is just madder and more inventive.

Three losers and a tagging-along nephew book into a ski lodge hoping to
relive their youthful experiences. But when the lodge turns out to be a
dilapidated wreck they resort to just getting wasted in the hot tub.
Said device sends them back in time when the circuits are fried by one
of those awful energy drinks.

Arriving in 1986 (a year that presents us with several plot holes an
anachronisms) they seize the opportunity to fix things for a better
future (despite being warned not to) while Chevy Chase pops in and out
as the hotel handyman who may or may not know the secret to time
travel.

It's very silly, very irreverent stuff, but it works. There's almost a
sort of magical, otherworldly feel to the hotel and Chevy Chase's
character, I wish it was taken a little bit further (maybe in the
sequel), and lampooning of 80s culture is spot-on, even if it's hardly
the first movie to do so.

You won't stop smiling for the entire duration. Brainless or not, isn't
that exactly what you want from a comedy?
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about this movie, I didn't think it was something I
would pay to see in the theater. It just looked took much like a frat
pack flick for my personal taste. However, I had a chance to see a free
sneak preview of it and was more than pleasantly surprised.

"Hot Tub Time Machine" is the story of three longtime friends - Adam
(John Cusack), Lou (Rob Corddry), and Nick (Craig Robinson) - and
Adam's 20-something nephew, Jacob (Clark Duke), who revisit the ski
resort playland of the three older guys' young adulthood. With the help
of a hot tub outside of their room and a little movie magic, the four
are transported back to Winterfest '86, an event that Adam, Lou, and
Nick attended at the resort back in the day. They believe they have to
do the exact same things they did during that fateful weekend 24 years
before to have a chance at getting back to 2010. Some things obviously
change, even when the characters are trying to keep them the same.
These make for some hilarious story arcs for the three older guys and
more than a few awkward moments for young Jacob.

I think most adults will find this movie funny, but it was made
especially for Gen-Xers and others who remember the '80s well. If you
are a fan of movies such as "Back to the Future," (one of my personal
favorites) "Better Off Dead," "Red Dawn," or "Sixteen Candles," you
will get a kick out of the homage that this movie pays to those films.
And it's a must-see for John Cusack fans, who produced this movie and
obviously has a sense of humor about the early roles that made him a
star.

Granted, "Hot Tub Time Machine" isn't perfect. There are a few obvious
errors about people's ages and about the state of pop culture in the
mid-80s (at least as I remember it). There's also some gratuitous drug
use and female nudity. But these are minor criticisms about an
otherwise very funny film that almost anyone between the ages of 30 and
50 is bound to appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1980's, it would seem, is back with a bang. Modern music is filled
with synthesised melodies and dodgy outfits, fashion brought back leg-
warmers (albeit briefly), big sunglasses, and tight jeans, and films
have recently been taking a sentimental look back at a time when teen
comedies, gory horrors and oiled-up muscle men action films ruled the
roost. Yet it is a decade looked back at with as much disdain as it is
warmth, pointed out by John Cusack's character Adam in Hot Tub Time
Machine, as although he recognises it as the best time of his life, he
states that "we had Reagan and AIDS," and exclaims "I f****n' hated
this decade!".

It seems almost pointless to draw out the plot given the film's to-the-
point title, but it tells the story of three friends, Adam, who has
just seen his girlfriend leave him, Lou (Rob Corddry), an alcoholic who
is in hospital after an accidental suicide attempt, and Nick (Craig
Robinson), who has generally harbouring the knowledge that his wife has
cheated, and is busy pulling car keys out of dog's arses for his job.
Returning to their favourite place as teenagers, the Kodiac Valley Ski
Resort, with Adam's nerd nephew Jacob (Clark Duke), they find the place
desolate and far from the place they remember. After a wild night of
drinking in the hot tub, they wake up to find themselves transported
back to the 1980's and realise they have the chance to remedy the pains
from the past, as well as party like they did years ago.

In a world that releases gross-out comedies by the barrel, Hot Tub Time
Machine manages to include both the sweetness of the Judd Apatow
comedies of late, as well as the misogynist, bad taste teen comedies of
the 1980's that saw a revival in the early 2000's thanks to American
Pie (1999). Although the film wasn't quite as funny as I was hoping it
to be, it does make up for this by having several appallingly
distasteful, yet very funny, set-pieces, including one that sees one
the group having to face performing fellatio on his friend. We would
like to think that we have moved on from the homophobic, racist and
sexist humour of the 80's and that we have developed a more politically
correct outlook on life, but we haven't really - it's still very funny
(when done right).

Chocked full of references and homages to everything 80's, this will
obviously appeal more to people growing up in the era. Although my
pubescent days were spent in the 90's, I still grew up around the
movies, which were then still relatively modern, so I did feel a slight
tinge of nostalgia (genre legends Chevy Chase - looking old as f**k -
and the ever-entertaining Crispin Glover make appearances here). The
movie is slightly held back by some predictable plotting, a plot twist
you can see a mile away, and some gags that fail to hit the mark, but
the film is well aware of its ridiculousness, embracing it's silly plot
and thankfully not dwelling on the details. This is simply an excuse to
have some 80's fun, and fun it certainly is.

www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Tub Time Machine is a much funnier movie than what the film title
calls for. I didn't really know what to expect of this film but I got
way more than my lowered expectations. This is a funny, sweet film that
pays homage to the 1980's. This is a film that made me wish I was a
teenager back in the 80's.

Hot Tub is about a group of childhood friends and a nephew who decide
to visit their past. While in a hot tub, they get transported back to
the 80's unexpectedly. Now they must retrace their steps from the 80's
and try and find a way back into the future.

Rob Corddry stole the show as the drunk party animal. He was the best
part of the film. John Cusack and Craig Robinson also had very
hilarious moments in this film.

Overall, this is far funnier than I anticipated. Being a big fan of the
80's, I was not disappointed. There are some clever jokes and quotes
that shall forever be remembered. I rate this film 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hot Tub Time Machine" is actually quite enjoyable. The ridiculous
title and its obvious concept turned me off at first but it turned out
to be a lot of fun.

As a fan of John Cusack, it was pleasing to see his character, Adam,
reminiscent of Rob from "High Fidelity" (2000), especially when his
girlfriend moved out on him at the very beginning. "She basically
called me an asshole, like I'm a narcissistic asshole." His friend
replies, "Yeah, she has a point though." The movie does spend a
significant amount of time with the guys being assholes and calling
each other assholes, but it is probably the best
guys-acting-as-assholes movie.

Three middle-aged men are despondent with the sad state of their lives,
Rob Corddry being the worst of the bunch, is in the hospital with
another not-suicide attempt (beause if he really wanted to, he would
kick ass at killing himself), and Cusack and Craig Robinson are called
in as the only people who could be described as his friends. Believe it
or not, but the movie's opening with all this unhappiness is quite
funny and real at the same time. To cheer themselves up, they are off
to a ski resort where they used to hang out in the 80s. I think we all
know why it's called "Hot Tub Time Machine".

As ridiculous and inane as this all sounds, there is a lot of clever
humour in the movie, and the characters, as much as they are assholes,
they are also real and genuine. I know them and that just makes them
all the more fun. I was annoyed with the inclusion of Jacob (Clark
Duke) as Cusack's nephew because I think one Jonah Hill is enough.
