
I am a fan of Neil Jordan but I was extremely disappointed with
Breakfast on Pluto, so I went to this movie with low expectations.
Colin Farrell (once you get used to him with the sing songy Cork
accent!)was super as was Alicia Bachleda. Along with the Butcher Boy
and The Miracle the real star of the movie is a young actor (Alison
Barry).

This is a fairytale interspersed with reality, it is a movie. I'm tired
of reading reviewers criticising the fantasy elements conflicting with
'real life'. Suspend disbelief for God's sake , you are watching a
piece of fiction, not a documentary.

This was a perfect movie for a lazy afternoon, it would even be
suitable for kids from ages 8 upwards.Did not find it in the slightest
bit boring or slow. To compare it with Moondance is completely unfair
as that movie had both poor directing and a brutal script(in
conjunction with some very dodgy acting).

Give Ondine a chance, you might find that you will be pleasantly
surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
According to the dictionary an 'ondine is a water nymph or water
spirit, the elemental of water. They are usually found in forest pools
and waterfalls. They have beautiful voices, which are sometimes heard
over the sound of water. According to some legends, ondines cannot get
a soul unless they marry a man and bear him a child. This aspect has
led them to be a popular motif in romantic and tragic literature.'
Another bit of background information that aids the viewer of this
little rarity of a film, ONDINE, is the bit of folklore often referred
to in the film - that Ondine is a 'selkie': 'In Irish folklore, there
are many stories about creatures who can transform themselves from
seals to humans. These beings are called selkies. The seals would come
up onto rocks or beaches and take off their skins, revealing the humans
underneath. There is no agreement among the stories of how often they
could make this transformation. Some say it was once a year on
Midsummer's Eve, while others say it could be every ninth night. Once
ashore, the selkies were said to dance and sing in the moonlight. One
of the most common themes found in selkie folklore is romantic tragedy.
Selkie women were supposed to be so beautiful that no man could resist
them. They were said to have perfect proportions and dark hair. They
also made excellent wives. For this reason, one of the most common
selkie stories is that of a man stealing a selkie woman's sealskin.
Without her skin, she cannot return to the sea, and so she marries the
human man and has children with him. She is a good wife and mother, but
because her true home is in the sea, she always longs for it. In the
stories, she ends up finding her sealskin that her husband has hidden,
or one of her children unwittingly finds it and brings it to her.
According to legend, once a selkie find her skin again, neither chains
of steel nor chains of love can keep her from the sea. She returns to
the ocean, usually leaving her children behind with their
grief-stricken father'. 

All of this information may seem redundant, but when a beautiful little
film such as ONDINE, written and directed by the always excellent Neil
Jordan, knowing the background helps support the manner in which the
story is told and revealed. Syracuse (Colin Farrell) is a recovering
alcoholic fisherman whose alcoholic wife has custody of his beloved
daughter Annie (Allison Barry) who because of renal failure must be
dialyzed frequently and spend her days in a motorized wheelchair while
she awaits a kidney transplant. Syracuse focuses his life on Annie -
until one day while fishing he brings up a beautiful girl in his nets,
a frightened girl named Ondine (Alicja Bachleda, a brilliant Polish
actress and singer from Mexico) who fears being seen by anyone.
Syracuse protects and clothes her and secludes her in his dead mothers
shack by the sea - until Annie discovers her, having researched
everything she could fine at the library about the selkies. Annie
decides Ondine is selkie who must bury her seal coat in the earth and
thus gain seven years on land without having return to the sea. With
this mixture of myth and reality the story moves along at a gentle
pace: Syracuse frequents the priest (Stephen Rea) confessional (his
only available semblance of an AA stabilizer in his small village),
Annie and Ondine bond, Syracuse and Ondine fall in love (despite the
myth's warning that every selkie has a husband), and the townsfolk
begin to accept the strange happiness that has returned to Syracuse's
heart. The plot then twists and the realities of the myth become known
and the story progresses from a recreation of a mythical romance to the
difficulties of a true romance. 

The chemistry between Farrell and Bachleda and Farrell and Barry is
extraordinary and palpable: they make the film sing. The haunting
musical score is by Kjartan Sveinsson and the moody cinematography is
by Christopher Doyle. Neil Jordan pulls all of these elements together
into a film that will linger in memory - like the song Ondine sings.
There have been novels, operas, ballets, and plays written based on
this myth, but few capture its mystery the way this film does. It is a
quiet little gem of art. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This was a beautiful blend of the myth of the Selkie, the beauty of
coastal Ireland, and life lived with loss and love. No one's problems
in a small Irish village are private. Colin Farrell is Syracuse, or
Circus, who is working on his life through his many difficulties under
the magnifying glass of small village life. His closest confidante is
his priest(Stephen Rea), whom he goes to for support, not absolution.
Rea plays his role with depth, and Irish humor. When he finds Ondine,
Syracuse's life gets luckier. Colin Farrell plays the role with great
sensitivity to empathy, and suffering, while looking for hope and joy
through the beauty and myth of his catch, Ondine. Alison Barry as the
little girl Annie portrays the child who looks to stories and myth to
help her through her suffering, and who clings to her own happy ending
no matter what. This is a beautiful story of love, tears, and
suffering. Don't miss this one. Your soul will be singing the Selkie
song too.
<|_=00=_|>
I respond well to movies with honesty and heart, and Ondine has plenty
of both. Set in an Irish fishing town, you can also feel the love and
respect of the filmmaker for the rugged and beautiful setting. The
performances are excellent, with especially good work by the the young
Alison Barry playing the part of Colin Farrell's daughter, who suffers
from kidney failure and must undergo regular dialysis (reminded me of
the early work of Dakota Fanning).

The film's "feel" is a bit darker than I expected, making the
injections of wry Irish humor in Colin's confessions to the priest
(played by Stephen Rea) even more enjoyable. The script keeps you
wondering until very near the end, "Is this really a modern fairy tale,
or is there a more earthly explanation?" The soundtrack is
appropriately plaintive, with songs by Lisa Hannigan and others. I
definitely plan to buy the soundtrack. Because this film is low-key and
thoughtful, it probably will not receive the attention from audiences
it deserves. But serious moviegoers should take the time to watch,
enjoy and appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>
An unsuccessful fisherman named Syracuse is shocked when he pulls up a
strange women in his fishing nets. She can't explain who she is or how
she got in the water, but she doesn't want anyone besides Syracuse to
see her. Syracuse must attempt to unravel the mystery or who or what
she really is while trying to patch up his relationship with his
ex-wife and take care of his sickly daughter. 

Ondine possesses a style all it's own. It successfully blurs the line
between fantasy and reality until the audience doesn't really know
where one ends and the other begins. But, at it's heart Ondine is
really about relationships and finding hope in desperate situations.

You truly care about all the characters and this is achieved by
excellent performances from all the leads. Especially Alison Barry who
is an amazing child actress and absolutely inspired as Annie,
Syracuse's ailing daughter. Annie is convinced that Ondine is a Selke
and revels in living in a fantasy that is much easier than her own
life. The chemistry between Colin Farrell and Alicja Bachleda is
another high point. 

Ondine is not without it's flaws though. At points the drama can seem
forced and it was starting to lose me towards the end. The ending is a
little crazy as well, but that is fairly easy to forgive when
considering all that works in the movie.

Ondine is an extremely heartfelt story and deserves a lot of praise for
originality alone. I believe it is certainly worth watching at least
once and hopefully it will get the attention it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Ondine is a movie that can truly be regarded as a modern day fairy
tale. The story has been depicted so amazingly that it mesmerizes the
audience and blesses them with a profound sense of compelling magic and
fantasy. I am glad that after a long period of time I've watched a
fabulous romantic movie, in the true sense of word. Romanticism is
something that makes us escape our known world of mundane reality and
takes us into a world of perpetual love, warm passion and incredible
dreams. The story of Ondine has all the elements of a charming fairy
tale and the ingeniousness with which it has been depicted makes it
quite believable in the context of our known reality. It has all the
elements of a fairy tale and yet it's an outstanding tale of the real
world. The Selki myth, the struggling fisherman and her sick daughter,
Ondine as the luck mascot, the monster who emerges to take Ondine away
and the enthralling aura of mystery that shrouds the facts for long,
make it a movie that's characterized by enchanting surprises, suspense,
mystery, emotion and fantasy. What more can we expect from a fairy
tale. The Selki mythology has been illustrated so wonderfully in the
film that it endowed the plot with a compelling romanticism. It's a
sensitive story of salvation, love and magic that we often dream of but
seldom find in our concrete real world of facts. I particularly liked
the ending of the film. Like a wonderful fairy tale it has a "they
happily lived ever after" type of ending. After all the tensions, all
problems are resolved at the end. I think such endings make us
optimistic about life and give us the courage to dream over again. It's
a very poignant and sensitive movie; a fascinating love story.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about Neil Jordan's Ondine, a middling good and very Irish
expression of his unique vision, is soft around the edges, like the
lilting speech of County Cork, where the action takes place, by the
sea, whose gentle waters (hithering and thithering waters of, Joyce
called the Liffey) deliver a girl into a fisherman's net. Is she a real
girl ("one of those asylum seekers," her finder asks) or a selkie or an
ondine, a sea nymph, a mermaid temporarily gone human? The distinctions
have gone blurry, and the movie swings between fairy tale and a harsh
account of modern realities. Ondine succeeds or fails by virtue of its
gentleness and deliberately blurred distinctions. It's a nice little
story but a fragile one, so understated and gentle it could pass
unnoticed if you don't pay good attention; and the accents are so thick
we could have very much benefited by having subtitles. Once again it
shows this director remains his own man, true to his literary roots and
his Irish ones when he wants to be.

The fisherman is Syracuse (Colin Farrell), but his name has been
rounded off to "Circus," and Farrell has softened back his voice to an
(often incomprehensible) Irish murmur. He says they call him "Circus"
because as a drunk he was such a clown. He's been sober for two years,
ten months, and 21 days and counting, but he's treading water, in need
of something. Circus has a daughter, Annie, whom he cares for, but she
lives with her mother, and he lives by himself, and he's too warm and
friendly a fellow for that to be right for him. He lives on the edge, a
bit uneasily, between sobriety and drunkenness, solitude and a marital
state, happiness and bitter disappointment. When he pulls the
mysterious female out of the water, she offers hope of something new.

Neil Jordan has always had a gift for transformation and blurred edges.
In his very first film, a mild-mannered musician, played by Stephen
Rea, changes into a revenge killer, his trumpet morphed into a gun. A
Jordan regular forever after and virtually his muse, Rea has been
described by Todd McCarthy in terms of ambiguity: "handsome-homely,
decisive-passive, gentle-violent." It's true you don't know quite how
to take Stephen Rea half the time, and that's the beauty of him.
Jordan's most celebrated film, The Crying Game, veers with pleasing and
surprising complexity between opposites of sex and politics, keynoted
by the fascinatingly androgynous Jaye Davidson. The Irish
novelist-turned-auteur filmmaker has dealt in the past with mythical
transforming creatures in Interview with the Vampire and In the Company
of Wolves.

Ondine is in a lower key, however. The shapely and mysterious young
woman Circus catches in his net (Alicja Bachleda, a Polish actress born
in Mexico) can't be pinned down. Not, at least, till till the action
finale, which brings things to a conclusion with a series of happy
accidents. As Circus may have hoped, she becomes a source of luck.
Ondine is what she says her name is. When she goes out fishing with
Circus, her singing seems to fill his pots with lobsters and his net
with salmon. He desires her. He likes dressing her up in nice clothes.
When the two of them make wishes, Ondine wishes for Annie to get well.
Circus wishes for Ondine to stay. She doesn't want to be seen and he
hides her in an isolated cottage once occupied by his late lamented
mother.

The plucky, smart, and over-imaginative young Annie (Alison Barry) goes
to the library and studies up on selkies. She rolls around in a
wheelchair that gets stuck in the water at one point. While she's the
most threatened -- she could die at virtually any moment -- Annie is,
paradoxically, the strongest person around. The wheelchair she has to
travel in hides that her feet are planted firmly on the ground. She's
also like a sea-nymph herself, surviving life on earth uncertainly,
only by constant dialysis sessions. Of course Stephen Rea is here, and
this time he's a Catholic priest. Circus goes to him for confession,
but not quite confession: he seems to confuse his sessions with the
good Father with AA meetings. These are moments of contemplation, as
are, perhaps, Circus' attempts to tell Annie a fairy tale based on what
he's actually experienced, but there's a feeling that events are moving
forward rapidly and strangely. "Curiouser and curiouser," Anne repeats,
echoing Lewis Carroll. But really things are in a slow drift, till the
end comes and they're rushed to a conclusion.

That final revelation when bad men turn up may not be so surprising,
but what remains of Ondine is its delicacy and sweetness. Ondine
herself does seem for a while a creature of the sea, in a very
down-to-water fashion. She likes to get wet in the sea. She sets the
fashion of wearing thin, wet dresses and she looks great in them,
though there's a voyeuristic note in those scenes, as if she's just
being posed to titillate the audience. The film seems, not for the
first time in Neil Jordan's work, to be more interested in atmosphere
than anything else; there's plenty of that, but not much depth in the
characters or the action. Jordan pays good attention to his visuals and
brings in the best d.p.'s to help him. That first film was shot by
Chris Menges and this one by Christopher Doyle. The appropriately
feathery camera-work never strikes a note of Irish Tourist Office
cliché. Too bad the images, though soft and blurry, are clearer than
the dialogue.

_________________
<|_=00=_|>
The performances in this are just great. Combined with an equally good
story, this makes for a very entertaining movie. Entertaining in the
sense a story you might like to hear as a bedtime story. There are no
big effects here and even great emotional scenes don't feel forced or
heightened in any way.

While the main actress is beautiful, she is also good acting wise. And
it is necessary, because her character (also the name of the movie)
really carries this. Along with Colin F. of course, who has to take a
few steps back and be really "quiet" ... kinda like the exact opposite
of what you would imagine him to be in real life ... which also shows
the strength in his performance!
<|_=00=_|>
Hats off to the Philippines' Mars Ravelo. For years now, Mars has
created an impressive pantheon of characters, not the least of which
includes the timeless, enduring fish tale of Dyesebel, the mermaid.
Dyesebel, arguably his most famous creation, is another shining example
of his talents as a gifted artist. In this adaption, a lone fisherman,
Syracuse, is out on his boat, when his net snags something really big,
he draws in his net, finding a near dead attractive young woman in it.
After reviving her, he takes her to a family owned cottage where nobody
ever ventures to. There,he finds out a "wee" bit about her (but not
much, outside of her name now being *ahem* "Ondine" *cough*). When
Syracuse tells of his discovery to his young daughter, Annie, she sets
about to find out about her, and imagines she's a Galang Kaluluwa (a
creature drawn from Philippines lore, which is supposed to be related
to seals) here called a "Selkie", to compinsate for the change of
culture and setting. Eventually,the whole village finds out about
"Ondine", and warm up to her. Things begin to warm up between Syracuse,
"Ondine" & Annie,until a mysterious stranger turns up on the island
that threaten to tear it all apart. Also unlike any Dyesebel movies,
there was no magic Concho or Shell in the movie.

Neil Jordan takes & directs this beautiful story and adds a tart twist
of lemon. The breath taking cinematography is by Christopher Doyle,
with editing by Tony Lawson. The film's musical score is by Kjartan
Sveinsson, of the Icelandic band, Sigur Ros, with songs by Sigur Ros &
others. The cast includes Colin Ferrell, as Syracuse, Allicja Bachleda,
as Ondine, Alison Barry, as Annie,Neil Jordan regular, Steven Rea as
the priest, and Tony Curran, Dervla Kirwan, Emil Hostina & Norma
Sheehan. Another crowd pleaser from the Philippine's Mars Ravelo
(uncredited). Rated PG-13 by the MPAA for some salty language, brief
sensual content & some brief, but not too graphic flashes of violence.
<|_=00=_|>
old tale. and its new pieces. a film about heart of solitude, force of
myth, beauty of faith. and love as arena of freedom. mystery, legend,
the image of a child about a woman, a fisherman with many problems and
a kind of spell. a not special movie with science to give crumbs of
delicate emotions and to make a legend more profound. not very right in
details but exercise of good art to create emotion. and nice occasion
to understand the limits of reality as fruit of dream. a interesting
surprise - role of Colin Farell. a smart way to sustain drawing of
character - dialogs with the priest and circle of past. delicate
solution to create a gray world with fragile borders. inspired music
and images. a good movie. not extraordinary. just beautiful. like each
slice of life.
