
This movie has porn stars in it. This can only be cheesy, right?

Well, there were some good movies around this subject - remember Boogie
Nights?

In certain ways, this movie is better behaved than many others that
deal with sexual topics: Not a single naked nipple, as far as I could
see. And the sex talk is pretty honest.

There is a lot of comic relief in it: Holly, the "dumb" sexy girl
provokes a few good laughs, e.g. when she asks whether she's an
immortal whore, while meaning immoral.

The acting is professional - nothing bothered me about it. The story
has a few nice twists, and kept me interested right from the start.

Overall, this is a movie that not only sports a few sexy looking women
but also is quite entertaining bringing up a few real-life situations
(mother-child relationships, adultery, responsibility, trust, truth and
porn).

It's a movie about women, and the love for them. In a way, it reminds
me of Almodovar's films.

Give it a try. You won't be embarrassed!
<|_=00=_|>
Women in Trouble is not an exploitation film, or even a parody of one.
It's a remarkably clever, literate, surreal comedy-drama that just
happens to be set in a daffy world inspired by the culture of trashy
porn. Like Pulp Fiction, it twines together a number of overheated and
seemingly disconnected narratives. But the comparison is totally unfair
- to Tarantino, who, for all his cleverness, will never make a movie as
emotionally involving as this one. Or as funny.

It would be almost impossible to summarize this film, or convey its
weird charm in a few words. So I won't try. I will warn that a lot of
the story hinges on sex - without being *about* sex. Like the best
European farces, it takes sex for granted, and never blushes. But it
takes that attitude to the next level. Even if you feel you're sexually
liberated, you'll need to check your own lingering hangups at the door,
in order to keep up with this extremely engaging group of ladies.

This is hands-down one of my favorite films of the past year or two,
and that's regardless of budget. See it with an open mind. And be
prepared to laugh, cry and be amazed.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly did not see much potential in "Women In Trouble," but I
decided to rent it and I wish I had made it out to the theaters for it.
This is a wonderful film that employs the technique of multiple story
lines to perfection. The film makes you laugh much more than expected,
but keeps its heart in the midst of all the appropriately titled
trouble. It's too real to just become a comedy or a tragedy or a drama,
this film is an intoxicating blur of emotions. On top of all this is a
phenomenal cast. If "Women In Trouble" gave you that hesitant feeling
it gave me when I first heard of it, then ignore it and take a risk
this one is well worth it!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie works sort of like "Crash" or "Magnolia", with different
characters having their own story lines that turn out to be related to
each other in some way, and intersect at certain points in the film.
Also like Magnolia, there's a lot of self-discovery and unburdening of
the heart. It's about two thirds drama, layered within outrageous
situations and humor. 

There are a lot of characters. I don't know how the writer kept them
all straight. There's a porn star, a prostitute, a porn
star/prostitute, a therapist, a flight attendant, a masseuse, and a
couple others. Some of these are strangers at first, but form strong
bonds, resulting, I think, from some natural female instinct to support
each other in crisis. I'd like to run down the various crises they deal
with, but to avoid spoiling things I'll just say they involve being
stuck in an elevator, infidelity, porn, lesbian relationships,
bestiality, and unusual sexual dysfunction, to name a few.

This movie basically ends up being about womanly camaraderie, and the
bond that ties all women in all walks of life together, I think.
However, it's also got enough sex talk, women in underwear, zany
situations, and even a degree of bathroom humor, that'll keep guys
interested. It's also a great story with an outstanding script and
superb performances that combined to have me completely absorbed by the
end. I'm a guy, in case that wasn't clear.

I have to extend extra-special props to Adrianne Palicki (Holly, the
call girl/porn actress), who had a provocative monologue near the
middle of the movie that was impeccably and movingly delivered. I was
completely entranced.

PS. Keep watching after the credits. There's a cute little satirical
interview with the "porn stars", conducted by Joseph Gordon-Levitt.
It's not quite up to the level of the material in the rest of the movie
(probably why it was placed after the credits), but still worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
On the surface, "Women In Trouble", the fifth film from Sebastian
Guitterez ("Rise"; co-wrote "Snakes On A Plane") looks like your
typical sex comedy, packed with attractive, well-endowed dames. It does
have the dames, but they-and the film-are surprisingly
three-dimensional and quaint, making the film a must-see.

Circumstances, wacky and serious, locks the film's vignettes, featuring
different women, all Los Angeles residents: infamous porn actress
Electra Luxx (the impressive Carla Gugino of "Watchmen", "Faster", Sin
City", "Sucker Punch" and other films directed by Mr. Guitterez, her
longtime boyfriend) learns she's pregnant; her ditzy co-worker Holly
Rocket (Adrianne Palicki of "Friday Night Lights: The Series") gets in
trouble with gangsters during a "pro gig" with pal Bambi (Emmauelle
Chirqui of "You Don't Mess With The Zohan").

Meanwhile, therapist Maxine (Sarah Clarke of "24") gets drunk when she
learns her husband (Emmy nominee Simon Baker of "The Mentalist") is
having an affair with a patient's mother (Caitlin Keats) from the
patient herself, old soul goth gal Charlotte (Mr. Guitterez's niece,
Isabella) and flight stewardess Cora (Marley Shelton of "Grindhouse"
and "Scream 4") has a Mile High Club fling with rocker Nick Chapel
(Oscar nominee Josh Brolin of "Milk") ends gallows funny. 

If you're expecting full frontal nudity, forget it, but that doesn't
mean "Women In Trouble" is a waste of time. Imagine the sexiness of a
soft-core porn film on Cinemax, the female angst from a Lifetime movie
and the profane/profound humor of a Kevin Smith film and you have this
underdog gem.

With a fun script and tight direction, Guitterez treats his cast pretty
well and, while in their roles, they shine in their ups and downs. Also
included in the mix are Connie Britton (also of "FNL") as Charlotte's
"aunt" who has a dark secret; Rya Kihlstedt as a shotgun-totting,
lesbian barkeep; Cameron Richardson as the barkeep's masseuse roommate
from Canada and Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon ("The Jamie Foxx Show") as
Cora's pal. There's also a Q&A session, post-end credits scroll,
involving Electra and Holly with an over-eager Internet reporter
(Joseph Gordon-Levitt of "Brick" and "Inception") that starts out a bit
weak but ends funny. Ms. Shelton's sister, Samantha, belts out a sweet
tune in a bar.

Pretty girls have problems too, and "Women In Trouble" proves that with
a thoughtful chuckle.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not really sure what I saw because this film was a composite of so
many different elements. This film was listed under the comedy section
from my television video provider. I was unfamiliar with the director,
but some of the critiques form IMDb I found interesting, so I gave it a
shot. I really believe this director, has a lot of potential. There
were some great mise-en-scene; especially the use of rapid fire
editorial to punctuate. I was really impressed by the acting, the
direction was good, and the script great as well. I laughed and cried,
however what really irked me was a lack of cohesion between the
disparate vignettes; at times I wondered who edited this movie...other
than this pretty good, plus Robyn Hitchcock was involved with the sound
track, and this is the first film I have ever see where he contributed.
I have been listening to his music for 20 years!
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review and my English is very poor so I won't say
much. I bought this DVD some time ago along with other ones and I never
cared about watching it.. so, maybe just to convince myself I didn't
spent my money for nothing, I decided to give it a chance. OK, I just
finished watching it right now, and I have to say I'm completely
astonished. This movie is brilliant. It's clever, smart, fun,
touching.. it made me laugh and it made me cry. I'll definitely watch
it again soon and I'll recommend it to as many people as I can. I won't
say more because as I said my English isn't good and I don't want to
mess things up, but I can say this movie just become one of my all-time
favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies you find accidentally and then want to run
out and tell all your friends to watch!I saw it last night at a special
screening and went in expecting to be mildly entertained.Boy,was I in
for a surprise. The story is a comic delight,the acting superb and the
feeling when it was over made us all stand and applaud.

The story lines weave together in a magical tale of 10 women in varying
degrees of trouble,who cross paths,interact and leave the audience very
amused.

I will buy this DVD to show to everyone I know!

Nice job Sebastian Gutierrez and the whole cast!
<|_=00=_|>
True to its title, 2009's "Women In Trouble" is about a bunch of women
in an assortment of trouble. The film begins with two women inside a
Mexican jail, which turns out to be a film-with-a-film parody sequence
of an exploitation movie. You eventually realize that the whole 90
minute feature is self-reflexive parody; although much more subtle than
the opening.

Think the Coen Brothers with group of characters speaking out-of-place
dialogue in a lot of unusual situations. Think Seinfeld with a lot of
disparate pieces in some way related to each other, with the
connections eventually coming into focus. Think "The Hours" (2002) with
a group of vaguely uneasy women exploring the mysteries of female
discontent and finding some solace from shared confidences.

Not a lot of physical humor, nor good acting, nor impressive production
design. The writing is the strength of the production and it is
excellent. If you don't get subtle parody you would be wise to stay
away because there isn't much here for you. You are not the target
audience. The only exception would be Marley Shelton fans. She has a
very entertaining and clever 10-minute sequence, and looks incredibly
hot in a tight flight attendant uniform. For her fans this is a must
see even if most of the other material is not their cup of tea.

Those knocking the film simply failed to make the necessary connection
with the material, so I wouldn't put much stock in the negative
comments and reviews unless they are from someone who tends to mirror
your own preferences.

Special features on the DVD includes deleted scenes, a satirical
interview that runs after the credits, and Spanish subtitles; given the
audio quality and the essential importance of the dialogue the money
would have been much better spent on English subtitles.

Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an interesting movie, and very nicely told as well.

I thought this movie would be a movie for women mostly, but it was
quite alright for guy audiences also, as the story is touching and
warm. In this movie you got laughs, tears, hopes and fears. Pretty much
covers it all here, and it come out as a marvelous piece of work. Of
course, I do not doubt that women audience will delve deeper into the
movie and the characters portrayed herein, as the main characters are
all female and the story follows their struggles to cope with the
situations that life deal them.

The cast was nice, and they all portrayed their characters well,
bringing them to life on the screen. You get a lot of story to each
character so you can immerse yourself in their situations. Every
character of the story brings with her (or him) something unique and
touching to the story. The way the characters are brought to life is
made in a real believable manner, so you can easy identify yourself
with these people.

All story lines entwined well on the screen and there was a wholesome
feeling to the entire movie. And the movie deals with real life
situations, situations that we all can related to on one level or
another. That is what makes the impact of this movie so profound.

I was thoroughly entertained from start till end. And I think you
should give this movie a chance, it is somewhat of an underrated gem in
the rough. It makes for good, solid entertainment.
