
This movie never had a chance of being good. It's a modern horror movie
based on a board game - was anyone optimistic about this? Anyway, it
still could have been campy fun; after all, it is about a board game.
But it's not fun. It's boring as hell. Everything about this movie
fails on so many different levels. The writing is horrendous and
doesn't even make sense, literally, the plot holes are glaring. The
acting is excruciatingly boring; it's like they wanted to blurt out
their lines with no emotion whatsoever to get the production of this
terrible movie over with as quickly as possible. The directing is
abysmal - scares anyone? Nope, not a one. They try to throw in fake out
jump scares every once in a while but they make you laugh more than
anything at how pathetically unscary they are. The entire movie is
pathetic really. 

What saves Ouija from the dreaded 1 rating is the fact that it isn't a
remake or rehash. They actually tried to make something original, with
the premise at least - the execution is as generic and awful as you can
imagine. So there, an extra point for Ouija, congratulations. If you
look at it as a comedy you can get a few laughs out of it, but that's
only because Ouija is so blatantly horrendous that it embodies
everything wrong with the horror genre these days. If you're looking
for authentic scares and genuine thrills, then stay as far away from
Ouija as you possibly can.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror is one of those genres that creates such voting and reviewing
hostility on internet sites. You can guarantee that no matter what new
horror film comes out it will garner posts on the likes of IMDb as
being "the worst horror film I have ever seen". That is until the next
big release, where we will go around the houses again... 

Ouija is just a standard boo-jump horror picture with a standard story
line. Any expectation of any thing more would have (will do) led (lead)
to great disappointment. It's one of those horror films that asks you
to turn off the lights and just enjoy the quick spooky ride, then you
get off the ride and quickly move on to something else. It's neither
"the worst horror film of all time" or anything remotely original. It's
Boo-Jump horror 101, so buy into that or leave it well alone. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Teenagers help movies make a lot of money. In turn, studios have to
give teenagers movies so they can populate the theaters and horror
movies are some of the easiest to make. That is why we have Ouija, a
movie based on a board game that is chock full of all kinds of clichés
that led to a really lazily made movie.

Good: The movie is shot really well.

Bad: The movie is just so lazy. Awfully predictable jump scares, no
tension or suspense, acting that is so bland makes me think I'm eating
white bread, and a plot that is cliché and lacks any sense. A movie
like this that is very dumb could have worked had the movie had a sense
of humor about it. However, the movie is so serious that any fun that
could be had with the use of the Ouija board is all lost.

Overall, this is a dull horror movie with no personality and scares.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I first saw "Ouija: Origin of Evil" (2016) in the theater when it
came out, and I thought it was fantastic--I gave it 9/10 stars. And so,
of course, I decided to go and watch the first film in the series,
simply titled, "Ouija". I did so despite my having been warned by a
couple of friends that it was a pretty bad movie. But, come on, how bad
could it really be??? "Origin of Evil" is AWESOME....so the first one
must be pretty good, right?

Wrong. This movie is terrible. TERRIBLE.

About the only thing I can say for the movie is that it does more or
less follow the storyline of the prequel (although there are some
glitches there, too), and as such it was marginally fun to find out how
the story ends, so to speak.

But, man, this movie just downright sucks all the way around. The plot
is bad, the acting...is...OK, but nothing to write home about. The
story is not developed at all, and it's like they just threw together a
few general concepts and tossed it into a movie.

All that said, it really is like they made the terrible sequel first,
after the hit horror movie. The 2016 prequel is leaps and bounds better
than this movie. But this movie itself is weak as can be. 2/10
stars....a rating I have hardly ever given before. This one's bad
folks. Real bad.
<|_=00=_|>
"Ouija" has a pretty cool and creepy story to work with, an old spirit
board discovered in the attack, suicides and haunting, a creepy legend
that connects the board to the house of the suicide girl, it is all
perfect horror subject matter. Unfortunately there is something missing
from "Ouija" that makes it more spectacle than horror. The scenes build
nicely through suspense, shadowy, eerie atmosphere, and great sound
effects, but the end result falls flat. The big scares aren't really
scary. 

The cast give well enough performances of these haunted characters. The
direction and cinematography are equally stellar. You can tell money
was well spend in production, "Ouija" has all the right components to
be a real good horror film, unfortunately it all stays pretty PG. The
horror seems almost pulled back into safer zones when they should have
took that thrilling momentum and gone for some major scares. Not sure
why they chose to keep things subdued. I mean really for what "Ouija"
is it is a nice, creepy Halloween horror film based on an occult
staple-the spirit board. And there are a few scare-ish moments that use
the sudden shock gimmick to get a jump out of the movie-goer but still
this film is far less exciting than say "Insidious" or "The Conjuring".
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was by no means a cinematic masterpiece, however can you
really expect something of such high quality when the entire premise is
based around a Ouija board that wreaks havoc upon a group of close
friends.

Watching this film, my desire to watch a somewhat corny and predictable
horror/thriller was achieved with ease. As someone who has been warned
time and time again about the dangers of using supernatural means to
attempt to contact the dead, I found this movie to be highly
entertaining in a cheap-thrills kind of way.

If you are looking for a simple, cliché supernatural themed movie to
watch with close friends for a movie night, I'd definitely recommend.
This movie is neither terribly unbearable nor disgustingly gory, and as
such I feel is relatively inoffensive to those who enjoy these themes
in their movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen a ton of Horror movies cause Horror is my favorite Genre.
Seeing the commercials for this movie, I had to watch it. It seemed
scary, and with the Ouija Board, it seemed down-right horrifying. So
when it came out on DVD, I went and bought it. Big mistake. The acting
was just horrible and lifeless, the plot had so many holes in it which
raised more questions than answers. There was a series of movies that
centered around a Ouija Board called Witchboard which spawned 2
sequels, great movie, so I thought that this movie was going to be just
as good as the Witchboard movies, but I was wrong, it was the complete
opposite. I am a trooper when it comes to movies, even bad movies, so I
watched all of the way through, or shall I say that I have survived the
movie cause it was just so, so boring. If you want to see a horror
movie about an Ouija Board, watch Witchboard 1-3. Those are good Horror
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
After the death of her best friend Debbie (Shelley Hennig) that
committed suicide, Laine (Olivia Cooke) brings her sister Sarah (Ana
Coto) and convinces her friends Trevor (Daren Kagasoff), Isabelle
(Bianca Santos) and Pete (Douglas Smith) to perform a séance using a
Ouija board. However they unleash evil spirits that threat them. 

"Ouija" is unoriginal movie even in the title since there are many
"Ouija" movies. I do not recall how many movies that I have seen with
the same storyline, where a group of teens or even adults that use a
Ouija board or a séance to accidentally awake evil spirits. The story
is boring, the acting of Olivia Cooke is weak for a lead actress and
the screenplay does not help. The plot point of this forgettable movie
does not have anything special. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Ouija: O Jogo dos Espíritos" ("Ouija: The Game of the
Spirits")
<|_=00=_|>
This film has only children because it is for children. I did not
typically think horror movies were marketed towards very young teens
and preteens, but this one clearly was.

The acting was bad. Even worse than what I have seen in any B movie. I
feel like the plot could have been so much better than it was. If you
are an adult, not a teenager, then I am willing to bet you will not
find this movie even remotely scary. Aside from knock knock, this is
one of the worst I have seen in awhile and would never watch it again.
Watch the Ouija Experiment instead it is so much better than this. I
think the person comparing this to a Disney movie was correct in that
regard. If it wasn't for the language here and there I think it would
have only been able to make it to a PG rating.
<|_=00=_|>
I missed this one at the cinema and I'm glad I did. The main character
Laine is so flat and utterly unlikeable, and not particularly
well-portrayed. It's impossible to feel anything but contempt for her,
as she annoys her friends and sister and puts everyone in danger for
her inane impulses. It would be different if the character were a
strongly-written and robustly-portrayed one, but as the focal
protagonist, it causes the film to fall apart around her. It's not
solely the actress's fault, but she nonetheless does a poor job; there
was some material there for her to work with, which she failed to do.

The story is just poor all around, though. Not only is it boring, but
it doesn't really feel compelling at all. It's difficult to care about
any of the characters, and while some of the acting may be poor, it's
more a fault of the flaccid script. It's shot like a typical teen
drama, but there isn't even the exaggerated angst and nonsense to give
at least some laughable amusement, since it's really trying to be a
horror movie.

It's just not good. The characters and setting don't draw the viewer
in, and ultimately it's hard to care with such bland characters and
poor portrayals, especially on the part of Laine. A "talking board"
story could be interesting, even gripping or scary...just not here.
Part of what is required for that is for the main character not to be
an insufferable ass, and that's true in most horror. If the viewer
doesn't care if the character lives or dies or, even worse, actively
wishes they'd buy the farm, then the film has failed in its chosen
genre.

Ouija definitely fails on every respect. It's not even worth B-movie
classification. The only good part about it is Robyn Lively, and she's
in the movie for about two minutes total. Just watch a better movie:
Teen Witch, starring Robyn. At least it'll make you smile because it
actually tries and she has real charisma, unlike anyone in Ouija.
