
Before I saw this film, I really didn't know what to expect, but then
as I started watching, it really delivered. David Duchovny and Demi
Moore are fantastic as Kate and Steve Jones, the seemingly perfect
couple in the ridiculously perfect neighborhood. I especially liked the
way in which the director, Derrick Borte, conveyed a feeling to the
audience that something just isn't quite right with this family. This
movie really makes you think about what you buy and why exactly you buy
it. It was highly entertaining and also had an important and rather
satirical message about American consumerism and the art of "keeping up
with the Joneses."
<|_=00=_|>
It's not often you can sit down for a couple of hours of genuine
entertainment and come away feeling like you've just learned a thing or
two about life. Such is the deft, skillful balance achieved in "The
Joneses." I won't mention a single plot point, because the less you
know about this film -- other than it being an excellent film-going
experience -- the more enjoyment you'll have in the theater.

It's a tribute to David Duchovny and Demi Moore that they apply their
considerable skills to breathe real life into what could otherwise have
been caricatures in the hands of less-talented actors. The little
facial expressions, the subtle glances, the telling pauses, the body
language... everything that makes film a medium of intense impact is
used to tremendous effect, all expertly guided by the emerging artistry
of director Derrick Borte.

It's almost impossible to be unconsciously sucked-in by these
characters on the screen, in virtually the same way their celluloid
neighbors are likewise seduced by everything about them. Yet, there's
an underlying discord, an uncomfortable, inescapable tension that
pervades the truly captivating plot and persists through genuinely
amusing humor, signaling your gut that something is not quite right. It
is only with the full unfolding of the plot that we come to realize
just how profoundly twisted things are -- all the more disturbing
because this fictional set piece is a shockingly true-to-life
reflection of the world all around us.

It is genuine enlightenment to witness the choices made when the
characters are ultimately forced to resolve the true issues they
confront.
<|_=00=_|>
The Joneses is not top-shelf satire. Its concept does suggest that it
could be something of a great little suburban parable, something that
years ago could have come up on the Twilight Zone. An upper middle
class (or, let's face it, upper class) family of four- the Joneses,
Steve, Kate, Jenn and Mick- move in to a very nice new house. The
neighbors are impressed already, and become even more impressed (or
just jealous) of how they live, which is quite well and with many
little extravagances other people would want. This is because they
actually aren't a 'real' family; they're a corporate selling unit, put
together by a company looking to have a family sell to the richest
yuppies, young and middle-aged or old, in the area, by creating envy
and, ultimately, mass consumption.

It's a wicked little game made up so that all of the relationships of
the Jonses with the outside world are of a shallow, synthetic nature by
design. There can be attachments, but it's preferred that things stay
on a simple, amiable social-networking level so that more people buy
more stuff to fill in their big-ass houses. What the filmmakers explore
is this idea, but also the nature of the family "unit", and what
happens with these people when they're around each other for such a
period of time. Kate (Moore) is the leader of the unit, making sure
everyone is up to par on their sale percentages, especially Steve
(Duchovney) a failed golf pro turned car salesman who is on shaky
ground. He's not completely full of crap, so it takes a little while
for him to find his bearings selling the lifestyle he and the Jones'
leads, but at the same time he also has actual not-fake feelings for
Kate, which throws a monkey wrench in things, especially his oncoming
"icon" status.

A lot of this sounds good, but the reason it's not really a top-shelf
satire is that it just stops short just when it looks like it will take
off. It hints at being a dark look at suburbia, and hints at a kind of
under-the-mat aspect like American Beauty. But the characters don't get
very well defined after their initial set up; Steve is the good guy,
Kate is the slightly conflicted working woman, Mick the closeted
homosexual 'son', and Jenn the girl sleeping with a married man, or
whomever she can find (i.e. Steve). This also goes for supporting
characters, like the one the talented Gary Cole plays as the Joneses
next-door neighbor, who is such a consumer whore that he doesn't see
what harm he's causing to his busy-body wife and marriage in general
(his downfall is very predictable). And the last several minutes of the
film is especially too 'happy', meaning that whatever scathing
undercurrent of capitalist nightmare realized going on in the first
half of the film is resolved in such a way that is obvious.

However, this shouldn't discourage what is good about the film, because
what is good is very good. When the script is witty it's very witty,
and when the actors are likable, they shine off the screen. Demi Moore
hasn't been this appealing (perhaps ironically so considering her cold
business-like character) in years; Duchovney does well as a genuinely
good person who happens to be working like a con-man; Amber Heard is
the newest hot girl on the block seemingly genetically engineered
between Kiera Knightley and Kristen Stewart's good looks. It's simply
an excellent premise that takes off only so much as to its conventional
screenplay will allow (some intrusive songs also don't help much and
sort of detract from more dramatic points).
<|_=00=_|>
One of the few times I've been able to leave a full-price theater
thinking that it was totally worth it. I hadn't seen any previews or
trailers (watching TV on the web means that my ad exposure is *very*
skewed), so I had only the teensy summary on the movie theater website
to go by. Thus, I can't speak to others' criticisms of the movie not
living up to the hype. 

It's not super-dark, and I don't think that it goes far enough to be
considered truly satirical, particularly given the fact that some of
the characters experience a type of redemption, but it's one of the
most self-aware movies I've seen in ages. 

I tried to think of more movies like TYFS to include for comparison,
but am coming up short. Therefore, all I can say is that I'd love to
see more movies that merge cynical/comedic/dramatic elements so
thoroughly.
<|_=00=_|>
After I saw a preview at a local theater for this movie, I got
interested because of David Duchovny. I really liked his acting in
Californication and was interested how he would act in a standard
comedy/drama film, or so it would seem from the preview I saw. Because
this movie is much more then a standard comedy/drama film. It deals
with much more moral questions about life. I won't give much away,
because you really have to go into this film not knowing anything, as I
did. The acting was just good, with only Duchovny excelling. Once you
understand what's going on in the movie, the script is a bit
predictable, but not so much as that it would ruin the movie for you.
Also, I don't understand why this movie isn't much bigger. It's made
hardly any money and no one's heard about it, yet it's a film that
stands out and should get more attention.

I went into this movie because I'm a fan of Duchovny and was expecting
a mediocre film, but it turned out to be so much more.

Go see this film, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at TIFF 2009, and the crowd of 1500 was blown away!!!!
Didn't really know much about the story prior, but was psyched to see
Salmen Rushdie at premiere. This was pitched as a drama, but there were
laughs all the way through. Very cool. The chemistry between Duchovny
and Demi was explosive, and Amber Heard was even hotter. Great story,
very well told. I highly recommend it to all looking for a smart,
funny, biting ride!!!! Like Truman Show meets American Beauty. Great
music, cinematography, acting, direction. This is just what America
needs!!!! TIFF brochure said it best..."We should start thinking about
who we want to be, not what we want to buy". This film will be the
subject of water-cooler discussions once it hits theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Joneses" asks, can you keep up with the Joneses (David Duchovny
and Demi Moore)? And the answer is yes. The plot has enough original
twists and turns to keep it interesting, but not so many that you can
still notice the few levels of nuance and intelligence that they added.

A very original take on the "keeping up with the Joneses" idea -
everybody wants what the Joneses have. It may sound like any other film
where we watch rich people live their selfish lives, but they quickly
turn that on its head. It's much more clever and interesting. The
creative premise can seem a bit far-fetched but it was immediately
brought back down to Earth with the realism of the characters. I was
completely intrigued by these characters, and particularly impressed
with the emotion that was shining from beneath Duchovny's handsome
surface.

I had no idea what to expect from "The Joneses". And, well, that's
exactly what I got - something that I never could have expected. And it
was great. This film is original and intelligent, especially with some
of their perceptions of society. It can be a bit cynical at times but
that just adds some dark humour which all the best films have. I highly
recommend "The Joneses", especially for people who like a little bit of
thought and originality in films.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film all salespeople should watch, because it hammers close
to home, and contains some nuggets of techniques to impart. Playing out
like a social satire on consumerism and advertising, and just about
poking fun at everyone who's guilty of keeping up with the Joneses, in
literal fashion here a family of four becomes the quintessential
personification of just those successful people whom we all aspire to
become, emulate, or just plain desire to excel over.

We're introduced to what seemed like the perfect household, where Steve
(David Duchovny) spends his time mowing the lawn and playing golf and
you wonder how and how much dough and bacon he brings home. Kate (Demi
Moore) occupying her time with all things necessary to look hot and
beautiful, Jenn (Amber Heard) being the beautiful teenage daughter
who's the flower of the school, and Mick (Ben Hollingsworth) the geeky
but popular boy whose toys and gadgets make him the go to guy. Recently
moving into a new neighbourhood, the Jones family soon become the envy
of their neighbours, with everyone lapping up what they drive, drink,
wear and have. If you want to be with the cool crowd, then you need to
well, keep up with the Joneses.

Until of course the facade is pulled back, and we realize that it's all
about in-your-face yet sublime piece of advertising, where product
placement both in the reel, and don't forget the real world, are pretty
much featured everywhere, allowing you to make mental note to get that
golf club, or that Audi sports car if you have the dough. It's about
the selling of a concept lifestyle, and this form of getting the word
out, through actual talking about, and sampling the product, is nothing
but a real world kind of inception, with the planting of mindshare
firmly in the minds of the masses.

As mentioned, it's a must for sales people to watch, as it dwells on
relationships or the lack thereof, when we fervently pursue numbers
that define the occupation, with revenues, sales and profits being the
sole focus of existence. Will we trade relationship for that climb up
the corporate ladder? Will we not team up with fellow colleagues to
ensure we capitalize on each other's strengths? And why not also go all
out with joint marketing efforts? It also pays off for looking
physically attractive, because like it or not, a beautiful face with
the right kind of networking contacts and connections, get plenty of
doors opened.

There's plenty to like from this Derrick Borte film from a Randy T.
Dinzler story, which examines the effect of consumerism on
relationships between family members, neighbours and society in
general, critiquing in a nice manner without adding insult to injury
when we see shades of ourselves in one or more of the characters.
There's plenty of sharp wit, cheeky winks and double meanings going
around, that you can't help but to chuckle at, and with the characters,
who exercise the mantra of not mixing business with personal, but soon
find themselves, through their various character arc subplots, crossing
the line with various consequences.

In similar vein with Thank You For Smoking, The Joneses had plenty
going for it as you sit back and watch society's faults and woes on
display, with a dash of comedy and a tinge of pathos thrown in. For the
cynic in me I would have liked it if it had ended on a bleaker note
given how society self-destructs when some of us spend beyond our means
just to show off, but I guess again in times like these where most
parts of the world are bouncing out of a recession, that glimmer of
hope about the light at the end of the tunnel would likely be more
welcome. Highly recommended, and I'll not hesitate to shortlist this
film as one of the best of this year!
<|_=00=_|>
Undecided as to which genre of film to watch last night, I thought I'd
opt for a seemingly lighthearted movie to kill some time. My feelings
by the end of the film were still the same, what genre film had I just
watched? If it was a romantic film it failed to make me care or be
excited by the prospect of a relationship, if it was a comedy it failed
to make me laugh. The film didn't make me feel any empathy for the
characters and while I enjoyed the actors' performances, it fell flat
on the entertainment value. I successfully predicted all the way
through exactly what would happen. The film had no driving force,
didn't seem to be building up to anything and the clichéd ending wasn't
the closure I wanted.

However it was not all bad. It was very well shot, with beautiful sets
and was visually exciting, with first class editing. It was an original
plot, based on a solid concept. Because of this it could have been
really good, offering the audience a mirror in which to view themselves
and what society has become. Whilst it did become a bit of a thinker
and made me wonder what extent we go to, to have the best of everything
it ultimately failed to truly strike at the heart of the topic and left
me feeling like there were gaps that should have been filled throughout
the film.

Overall; a watchable film but not entirely enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
The Jones family moves into an upscale community and everything seems
perfect, but this family has an agenda.

And, they say there is nothing new under the sun. HA ! Just wait until
you see this story. It's more than just keeping up with the Joneses.
Much more. A new twist has been added. Maybe it was just a matter of
time before we saw something like this, but the wait is over. It's here
now. 

When I first watched the first few minutes in the beginning, I was
wary. Hey, I remember The STING and I said, "Con." But, I was wrong.
It's not that. Not exactly. 

The acting performances by Duchovny and Moore are seamless. Their
performances are so understated and honest that you buy into and enjoy
everything. Nothing is overdone. The dialogues by all the cast are also
seamless and honest. No really uncomfortable moments. You know
something is wrong with this family, but what? Oh, you do find out
early on and when you know, then you need to see how it ends. But,
after that, everything ran smoothly and I kept asking myself, "what
could go wrong? what could go wrong?" And, of course, something does. 

Violence: No. Sex: Not really, you just hear the sounds Nudity: Yes,
briefly in the beginning. Sexual content: Yes. Teenage drinking: Yes.
Language: Yes.
