
I read quite a lot of good reviews so I was pretty excited when I when
to watch the film. Unfortunately it was one of the worse films I've
ever seen. If you know even a few things about Greek mythology then do
NOT watch it. I didn't expect them to follow it completely but since
they are using the names of heroes and gods they could at least use
their background.

First of all, Theseus was not a "bastard" as they call him. His father
was the king of Athens (Aegean) and he certainly was not a peasant
since he became the king of Athens himself.

Second there were 12 gods not 6 and I've never heard of Zeus killing
any other god or about the law of not interfering with humans. Gods
loved to "play around" with people.

Third: as soon as I saw the so called Titans I felt like leaving the
theater. The last time I checked, they were not blue people who jump
around like monkeys and have no intelligence.

Fourth: I am not a racist. I have friends from all around the world but
using an Indian actress as Phaedra and black people for warriors feels
out of space. I repeat I am not a racist but in a film "based" on Greek
mythology they could at least use actors that resemble the people of
the country and since the priests were talking in "Greek", they could
at least make it sound like Greek. It took me some time to realize they
were not talking in an alien language and when I did, I still read the
subtitles to understand what they were saying, even though it is my
first language.

I do not want to over analyze the mistakes concerning the mythology but
I have to day that Phaedra was not a priest but a princess and Theseus
definitely did not bury his mother in the labyrinth of minotaur which
is in Crete, minotaur was not a man with an iron mask on his head and
Theseus did not follow his own bloody traces to leave the labyrinth.

I could write pages about mythology but I will stop here. Other than
that, I did not really enjoy the fights much. I must say that some of
them were amazing but most of them concentrated on showing too much
blood. If you enjoy watching people chopping off body parts and
literally smashing people into nothingness in slow motion then this is
a film for you.

Also, there was not depth in the characters. They are all shallow and
you can easily guess what their choices they will make or how they will
react to certain situations. The same goes with the plot. The ending is
pretty much known from the beginning there is no mystery at all. We
learn everything in the first 20 minutes and then just watch several
fights until the end.

All in all, the makers just used some "famous" names from the Greek
mythology and created a lot of violent fights in an attempt to gain the
attention of the viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're going to mess up Greek mythology, I guess you might as well
make it pretty. Immortals is a semi-related-sequel to the incredible
film 300, which not only looked beautiful but had this incredible story
of triumph and strength, overcoming powerful numbers with a sense of
knowing who you are and the pride you have. Immortals was created by
director Tarsem Singh who also directed The Cell, which was an alright
story followed up by some great visuals, the same thing happens here. I
think Tarsem is just known for making a beautiful movie with a weak
story, he's more of a visualist rather than a story teller. I still
couldn't wait to see Immortals and sadly was very disappointed,
unfortunately this was just a weak story with some bizarre miscasts.

King Hyperion has declared war on humanity. He searches for the Epirus
Bow, a legendary weapon created by the war god Ares, which will allow
him to free the rest of the Titans from Tartarus and take revenge on
the Olympians who brought about their downfall. In accordance with
ancient laws, the gods are unable to take a side in the war between
Hyperion and humanity. It is left to Theseus, who was chosen by Zeus
and accompanied by the priestess Phaedra and a thief named Stavros, to
protect his homeland and save the gods.

To begin with the positives, like I said the visuals really are
incredible. Now the CGI is over the top, but sometimes I don't mind, we
need the pretty occasionally. Plus like I said if you are going to mess
up mythology at least we could make it beautiful to look at. When I go
to a museum and look at the Greek statues, I am in awe and that's what
I felt with some of the visuals in the film. The fight scenes were so
well choreographed, a little ripped off from 300, but that's alright.
They took the 3D to their advantage with the blood splatter and the
stabbings and honestly, it was fun to watch. And if not for the script,
the story was actually very good, it's something that just needed some
work.

The cast though: Henry Cavill as our hero, Theseus, I don't know if it
was the actor or the way he was written but I couldn't really root for
his character. He seemed to lack the charisma that made me believe that
not only is this man a hero but that he's a God. He has this scene
where he is giving the big speech to his army that is freaking out when
they see the numbers they are about to face in war and he says
something along the lines "I bleed like you bleed" and randomly they're
just like "Yeah!", that's it? It didn't take much encouragement and the
way that Henry delivered it was weak in my opinion. Freida Pinto,
beautiful lady, decent actress, however was an unneeded character and
had no chemistry with Henry. Stephen Dorff did an alright job as the
sidekick who often lends a joke when needed but makes for a good
fighter and has some good action scenes. Mickey Rourke really does try
very hard to be the bad God like King Hyperion, but again the threat
wasn't so much there. He mumbles so many lines and won't stop eating
when on the screen, why not just give him a cat to stroke while talking
about his plan? The ending fight scene between Hyperion and Theseus was
so anti-climatic to me. The mighty legendary incredible God Zeus played
by Luke Evans? Oh, my*slaps head and groans*, I don't think I need to
say more, that was just wrong.

I think that if the story besides some casting issues, maybe if the
film was trimmed down a bit, the film would have worked a lot better.
Despite being over the top, I like the Greek mythology as a soap opera
of some sorts, that's what it was like while writing and telling these
stories. The film has a lot of flaws, however, I would recommend seeing
in the theater if anything, go see the matinée. The visuals are
absolutely beautiful and the fight scenes are a lot of fun. But don't
expect the story to be there, this movie is not a rental, even as a blu
ray, I'd recommend just seeing it in the theater if you want to see
some great special effects. But Tarsem does need to work on his
stories, I know he has some major potential, 300 was pretty and had a
great story to boot, if there's a sequel, you have one more chance to
make this story into a classic that we can proudly display with Jason
and the Argonauts.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Immortals is like eating a big platter full of candy and
sugary sweets. There's plenty to look at and many savoury sweets to
indulge in... Only for you to not realize that by the time it's all
over and done with, you'll be left with a lingering stomach ache. Which
is exactly what is the problem with all types of candy; eye candy or
the actual food itself. It's not until you're finished devouring such
huge portions of it you realize you've absorbed absolutely nothing.

I have nothing at all against Tarsem Singh, an amazingly talented and
visionary director. I loved The Cell, even though it was a bit
mind-screwy (though as soon as it's done, you realize what was real and
what was not). Every shot in that film was to die for, starting with
the opening frame of Dead Vlei. The Fall was a movie that I managed to
stumble upon by accident on IMDb. I watched the trailer and quickly
decided "I must see this!". Soon after I rented the DVD, watched it,
and thought "holy crap, that was amazing."

So as you may or may not be able to tell, I went into Immortals solely
due to Singh's namesake, and the one thing that entered my mind as soon
as his name appeared over the closing credits was "did someone hold a
gun to his head and force him to direct this boring 'movie'?"

It really is a shame. I love Greek mythology, and I thought Singh would
be able to carry a Greek mythology themed film well. Let's say he did
well with the visuals part; his trademark visual brilliance is all over
this film. Every single frame of the movie is a work of art in itself.
That said, the script is so agonizingly slow, boring and disgustingly
patronizing.

Sure there's a lot of holes in the mythos- Theseus being a bastard, the
sacred bow, etc. But those are the least of the films problems. The
story and sequence of events plays as if it were adapted from a
gore-obsessed 10 year old's paper on Greek mythology. One particularly
insulting plot hole comes from the bow- when Theseus buries his dead
mother in the cave, we are to assume the bow chose him and deemed him
worthy of using the bow itself- yet Hyperion can use it without
problem?!

The acting is insultingly awful. Cavill seems to think that just
standing there and looking handsome and what not is acting. And while
he is indeed a handsome fellow, he fits the role of Theseus in looks
only. He barely emotes throughout the film, and even the one scene
(where he watches his mother get killed) isn't enough to redeem his
boring performance. Freida Pinto does an alright job though her
performance wasn't nothing we saw in Slumdog Millionaire or Rise of the
Planet of the Apes. And I have a gigantic man crush on Mickey Rourke,
but he was just hilariously bad. He rehashed his performances from Iron
Man 2 and Sin City, and the result was not good.

The film plods along at a snail's pace. We get a handful of action, and
all are very short. Even the battle scene at the end was boring as
frack. The slow, sedated pace wouldn't be such a problem if the
dialogue weren't so awful. The dialogue sounds like an immature 14 year
old wrote it, and I wouldn't be surprised if one did. The exploding
heads scene was awesome, but that was it.

In short, guys will go see Immortals for the battle sequences and gods
fracking stuff up, and girls will go see it for the guys walking
around, letting their abs/muscles be the center of attention, neither
of which being anything they wouldn't get from viewing the IMDb
publicity stills for the movie- something they can do for free. Well,
girls, if your boyfriend takes you to this movie, swiftly pull him
aside and tell him "maybe you and me being together just isn't working
out for either of us...". Guys, if your group of buddies drags you to
this movie, immediately cut all ties with them and inform them that
they're idiots.

And to the writers, your scripts are more suited for no-talent hacks
like Michael Bay or Terrance Malick. Have you seen either of Singh's
previous 2 films? That guy has a wicked imagination. Let him use it on
worthy scripts.

OVERALL: 3/10

THE GOOD: It looks pretty. There's exploding heads and Mickey Rourke.
And Freida Pinto naked.

THE BAD: ...everything else.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start this off by saying, if you plan to waste you're money on
this movie regardless of all the negative reviews, then watch it in
2-d. DON'T BOTHER with the 3D as it ads NOTHING to the movie. I have
watched many films in 3D where it didn't add a whole lot to the movie,
this is the first time where I can safely say, not only doesn't it add
ANYTHING to the movie, it probably makes the viewing WORSE. So steer
clear of 3D.

Now onto the movie, it starts off promising, I'll give it that. The
first 5 minutes of this movie are probably the most exciting of the
hole movie. The introduction builds suspense, intrigue, and excitement.
Remember that feeling as from that point forwards, you won't feel that
anymore. Rather, you'll start to feel confusion, frustration, and mild
nausea. 

Acting is mediocre at best. Micky Rourke's performance is dry in this
film, as is Henry Cavills and the rest of the cast. The script is
pathetic, really. The dialogue is corny at best.

The story doesn't feel suited for a movie, either that or it hasn't
been executed well. Throughout this whole film I kept thinking to
myself the story and sequences would be much better suited to a video
game. On top of that, there are MAJOR plot holes:

Why is the king after the bow? if world domination is on his mind, then
how does freeing the 'titans' going to help him achieve this goal?? Why
do the titans run around like thoughtless monkeys? Why in one scene is
Phaedra intent on keeping her gift of foresight, and in the next scene
gives up the gift to sleep with a man? Why put so much emphasis on her
faith and devotion if she plans to give away her gift anyway? Why am I
even asking these questions when the director has already cashed out at
the bank??

The final blow from this movie is through the trailer. The "action"
sequences you see in the trailer are ALL the action sequences you will
see in this movie. The trailer is substantially more exciting than the
movie.

Don't waste your time with this one.

As for anyone calling this movie "art", I'd suppose they are pompous
and pretentious fools who don't know what real art is. I do agree some
movies can be considered 'art', but only if they are visually stunning,
great story, great acting, soundtrack etc...i.e a whole package. When a
movie just has several nice pictures in it, it's not "art", it's just
trying to hide the fact that the story and dialogue is lacking..

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Because it was beautiful to behold, I give this four stars of AWESOME
visuals (including the pretty cast) but really, what a horrible story.
And S L O W. Let's face it, the previews show nothing but action and
that's why we pay the big bucks for Imax 3D films but when the action
is nestled in between long, long drawn out and ill-formed dialogue (I
honestly thought lines were forgotten in many scenes and they were
running low on budget or time and just went with it) and extremely poor
story-telling.....you start to feel duped. When you spend more mental
energy thinking about another Coke Icee, you know you've just padded
Hollywood's pockets.
<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't seen any previews going into this movie. I was just out with
friends and went along with what they wanted to see because, hey, I
like pretty much all movies (emphasis on "pretty much" in this case).
This movie could have been really good. It really could have been. But
the plot had major holes and attempted to do too much without the
development to support it. Everything just flitted between one thing
and the next. One second the Virgin Oracle was determined to keep her
virginity and her gift (foresight). The next minute (and for no
apparent reason) she decides she wants to give it up for the chance to
be "normal" and has sex with the main character. This was completely
and entirely just for a meaningless sex scene. They hardly interact for
the rest of the movie. Beyond that, there's a 20th century style dam
which they are using as a wall. Okay sure, but why is it in the middle
of a desert with a mountain next to it that looks like it has always
just been a mountain? Plot hole. And okay, so Titans vs. Greek Gods, it
isn't original but it has the potential to be good. But why do the
titans look like they were covered in gray paint and made to wear silly
helmets? And why do they keep flying out of the floor in an endless
stream? I really could keep going. Like, why were they determined to
find the bow when the King couldn't find it. So by finding it they were
leaving it open to be stolen (which it was... immediately). Just don't
go to it. Rent Alexander or Agora or a mindless action movie by someone
like Steve Austin. Just... Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
If you go to this looking for an accurate representation of Greek
mythology, you'll be sorely disappointed. If you go to this looking for
a decent, nice looking, 300-type action film you'll enjoy it. As
someone who knows a bit about classical mythology I can choose to be
unbelievably annoyed by them using it as a reference for this film, as
it's ridiculously inaccurate, but I'm not.

Leave your smarts/knowledge at the door, enjoy the pretty action and
people, the brutal violence and Freida Pinto in the buff, and you'll
hopefully feel that you got your money's worth.

That's about it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie on a whim and because my friends pushed me to it.
I have to say that I did not regret going. The story plays out well
throughout with some rushed character development and cut corners in
storytelling. However, the direction was top notch, the visuals were
beautiful, and the casting was even better. Mickey Rourke did an
amazing job as King Hyperion, the villain you love to hate. The thing
that excited me the most about this movie is how well the action and
fight scenes were choreographed. I always choose story over action when
it comes to films but this movie far exceeded my expectations where
action was concerned. I can't stress that the story was still a good
one but the choreography and intensity of the action lets you care
about little else.

Bottom line: I was entertained and happy.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot felt like something written the night before a deadline by
someone who once heard about Greek myths several years ago, but hasn't
done any research on them. Certain aspects of the scenery were
obviously chosen because they look sorta Greek, with no thought of
checking with an ancient historian. The characters are boring and
one-dimensional. The suggestion that the characters were based on Greek
myths is laughable. The whole film looks like it was filmed in sepia -
but for the pretty golden gods, the shiny silvery plastic breastplates
and the unlikely blue cloaks - I can only assume in an effort to look
gritty and interesting. Someone on the design team seems rather
obsessed with stupid-looking hats too: gods and mortals alike provoked
laughter over their headwear. The overall message of the film seemed to
be a very American one: atheists are evil/stupid and faith in the
gods/God is the only way of winning. Also apparently negotiation is
pointless. Overall, the the film was a mess - badly plotted, with a
see-through message, full of anachronisms and just dull. It tried to
hard and fell short.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie with the pretense of "It's going to be a
combination of Troy, 300, and Clash of the Titans"... in my own mind,
Troy was a 7*, 300 a 10* and Clash of the Titans a 3* movie... That
averages out to a 6.67* movie. So that's what I went in expecting.

This movie had a bit more story time than I anticipated, a lot of time
was spent away from epic battles but there was plenty of fighting to
keep me happy. Special effects were great, stylized blood was plenty
but not too much, Frieda Pinto is gorgeous, and Henry Cavill is jacked.
The acting was pretty good; to be fair, not very much was necessary
from anyone besides Henry Cavill, but none of the actors
underperformed.

The quality of the fight scenes was great. Not a single fight scene
went by where I was like "ok, I waited 5 minutes for that!?." The fight
with the Greek Gods was very well done, although many people may
disagree (more on that in the next paragraph). Most of the fights are
just "look at Thesius... oh how he knows how to fight." But I
personally couldn't care less how many people are fighting as long as
the fights are well done.

The fight pertaining to the Gods is seen partly in the trailers when
you see people floating in mid air as they and their friends get
punished continuously. It's very Matrix/Kung Fu style, and some people
didn't like that. But the way I see it, these are Gods fighting, not
humans and legends. The fight has to have a different substance than
just simple blood and guts.

What really irked me were the inconsistencies with Greek Mythology and
the lack luster "epicness" of the Eperius bow. For one, the number of
Gods present in this movie is 5. Zeuss, Poseidon, Apollo, Athena and
one more... as far as the movie goes, they could of at least shown all
of the Olympians. Also, the Titans are shown as rabid monkeys against
the Gods. As far as I remember, they were equal to the Gods in strength
and intellect. Lastly, the Eperius Bow was not as epic as they had
built it up to be; especially the first time it's shot, it sort of just
happens.

All in all, the movie was what most people should expect from it. Well
done fight scenes, stylized blood, gorgeous Frieda Pinto and Gods.
