
This movie was absolutely a waste of my time and my money. I went to my
local theater on March 7th which is also my birthday and I wanted to
see the movie based on the performance of the first 300.

The first 300 had catharsis, it had actual character development and
made you want to keep going. This new 300, "rise of an empire" was
absolutely horrendous. Rise of an empire, what empire? 

This Great War that united the Greeks was barely touched on. It was all
about the blood and the guts and breasts. I don't mind nudity. I don't
mind blood. But the way the director went about it only cheapened the
experience. This movie has a line in it "you fight harder than you
f***" (Artemisia). It could have been beautiful and filled with the
promise of something both hilarious and invigorating if the scene it
referred to had not been so vulgar. 300 Rise of an Empire was not worth
the money I spent on it. There are books out there on this point in
history, historical fiction books that have stronger character
development than this script. The actors did the best they could with
what they had, but writers and director, you owe the public an apology
for this poor display of cinematic "genius". It was cheap, crude and
not well thought out. I had higher hopes. Next time actually make
something worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a Persian, I watched the movie last night and I think it was really
unjust to our history, and it's not making it OK by simply saying that
it was made upon a comic book, there are many points which I couldn't
close my eyes on and this is why I'm writing this. if you don't care
about the accuracy of historical events you will probably enjoy the
movie and in that case you don't need to read this review just move on
to the next. But if you are aware of the conflicts between the east and
west, the history of Greko- Persian wars and relationships etc you will
suffer thorough the movie and here is why: 1- The history is twisted in
the movie and very one sided 2- The movie makers present Persians as
terrorists since they use suicide bombers to win the battle which is a
shame, how could they relate something that accrued just in the recent
history to a great nation like Persia!. 3- The Persian king Xerxes, is
presented as a cowered, Darius, father of Xerxes was killed by
Themistokles, a Greek general, and before his last breathes he tells
Xerxes that "do not repeat my mistake, only gods can defeat Greeks"!
while Darius never left Persia to attend this war and he was not killed
by Themistokles and until this day, Iranians are visiting his tomb and
paying him respect. 4- The customs for Iranian soldiers and the king
himself are simply Arabic customs, the general who trained Artemisia is
a black person, with my respect to Arabs and every other racial group,
I'm I the only one who notices this movie and feels deeply sorry for
the racist movie makers?! Is it hard to tell Persians and Arabs and
Blacks apart? It's just sick man who are these wild, not civilized
people with long beards in this movie? With a simple look at the
statues of Persepolis you can find out how Persians looked like. 6-
Muhammad Dandamayev a Russian historian, mentions in his famous book "A
political history of the Achaemenid empire"; that after the Spartans
killed the Persians messengers they realized what a big mistake they
did and sent two soldiers to Persia so they can be killed instead of
the Persian messengers and Xerxes tells them "I would be like a nation
that violated the internationally known values and performed a
disrespecting act of cowardliness" apparently this scene was shown as a
remarkable thing to do in the movie 7- Last and most important point is
in the movie, the Persians did not care about the slaves and the
soldiers who were killed but the Greeks were defending not only their
country but the freedom and democracy and apparently they don't have
any slaves working for them, while slavery was widely spread at that
time and it wasn't like the recent slavery of African people, the color
did not matter and the Greeks were using them to build their citadels
like Acropolis, surprisingly the Persians were paying workers to build
Persepolis! the reason I remember this one in particular is that it was
discovered just recently, archaeologists found some payment receipts
made of rocks if I'm not mistaken belonged to workers who participated
in building Persepolis from different nations. Democracy does not have
the same meaning as the democracy we know nowadays, it's funny how this
movie reflects the American perspective toward Middle-east.
<|_=00=_|>
How could you mess up a sequel to 300? The story of the first movie was
simple and straight forward, yet jam packed with wit and beautiful
details...and came along with a look that was fresh and sexy, very self
assured and uncompromising. 

Rise of an Empire is a joke compared to the original and a huge let
down for anybody who appreciates good (or even visually appealing)
movies. The story is unnecessary complicated but doesn't make much
sense. While the visuals in the first movie seemed stylized and fresh,
ROAE seems cheap, the 3D never really impresses (enough to justify it's
use) and I had a hard time finishing the movie, partly because I
couldn't believe how they could do this to the franchise...and how Zack
Snyder is still part of this...I don't think he sleeps well these days.

Typical Hollywood sell out of a creative original idea. Really
surprising to me are all those good reviews all over the place, but I
guess quality standards are just ridiculously low these days.

Avoid if you can!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't understand why Zack Snyder didn't direct this sequel, and how
someone who has never directed an action sequence before and just one
feature film can be entrusted with a production of this magnitude. That
would already be a recipe for disaster, even though in reality Snyder
was supervising.

In an attempt to live up to it's predecessor, 300: Rise of An Empire is
action-packed, presents impressive visuals and is very bloody. In fact
there is more action, more blood, and more nudity than in the original
300. As for the plot, there really isn't much to chew on. A naval
commander, Themistocles is supposedly trying to reunite Greece. Since
the story takes place before, during and after King Leonidas leads his
men to fight the Persians, it can be hard to follow at times. 

Most of the acting was mediocre and couldn't quite compensate for the
weaknesses in the story. The Australian actor cast as Themistocles in
my opinion was a very bad choice, and comes nowhere close to what
Gerard Butler did as King Leonidas in 300. He just doesn't bring that
rugged heroic presence on screen as is expected. Interestingly I read
somewhere that director Noam Murro insisted it would be Sullivan
Stapleton who played this character, claiming he was 'the one'. Eva
Green on the other hand is plays an excellent villain as Artemisia.
<|_=00=_|>
So the Movie starts off with a pretty OK fighting scene.

Take care of this moment because this is probably the only scene that
will live up to your expectations.

I will not over analyze the Movie because its just not Worth the
effort.

The Movie was plain simple boring. Every scene was just taking your
expectations away bit for bit and makes you realise the inevitable
truth that this Movie will take Place on the goddamn ships the whole
time. Except of course when they are have shitty romantic speeches
about freedom and how awesome it is to be lame. 

The true heart of the first 300 was the brilliant fighting scenes and
the simple principle: - You want to change how we live? - Oh yeah? F
you and everyone that looks like you, you shitheads! We rather F our
mothers than surrender.

The sequel is the complete opposite: - Ooh, look at us. We have to have
this bullshit democracy and F up Everything because we have our
freedoms. Lets be lame and use Home-Alone-Traps for defense instead of
real fighting scenes pumped up with some Persian-hating testosterone.

I Went to the Cinema this evening expecting a sure to be awesome Movie
and all I got was this bullshit.

Im gonna spend my remaining Days praying that all the involved people
in this Movie will spend the rest of their lives flipping Burgers at
Burger King.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is a long way from reality, Persian characters all have come
from the mind of the patient's Writer, This movie is more damaging to
Persians and no purpose other than. However, the only thing that did
not distort history and not more. 

If you had looked at Persepolis historical symbols only once, Fully
understand all the characters and dress and culture and created a
devastating. Xerxes is no way that someone that you've built and only
open the doors you had a history of insulting installment. In the end,
I'm not bothered because I know with such films history can never
change.
<|_=00=_|>
So, the last stronghold of men has been pillaged. The original 300 was
about strong, brave, reckless men who would die for glory. This sequel
is about a girl who outwits the whole Persian empire and defeats men in
their own game. Eva Green's character was so unnaturally forced into
300's universe just to have that "strong female main character" that it
was obscene. No Leonidas, no Spartans, a childish Xerxes whose only
role in the film was to be an idiot so that Eva Green character's
"wittiness" could come to light, and a terrible main character (forgot
his name already). I won't even go into the storyline because the real
story here is that the spirit of the original 300 has been utterly
destroyed. This movie is so politically correct it's stupid, I guess
this is what gets money nowadays. I just really hope this movie does
badly so that the people who made it give a second thought before
killing a franchise next time.

Only part worth mentioning: Eva Green's topless scene.
<|_=00=_|>
As the credits began to roll, i sat for a moment, allowing it all to
sink in. Had i just witnessed the most disappointing sequel ever? I had
not felt this disheartened by a sequel since "The Matrix: Reloaded"
Like "The Matrix", "300" for me was excellent; groundbreaking. Fresh
and original. And then instead of leaving it as is, they decide to
bring in the cash cow and milk it dry. I loved "300"; the action was
engrossing, the story was compelling, it was an instant classic. And i
never wanted to hear the announcement of an unnecessary sequel. My gut
churned when i heard it. But i never thought in my worst nightmares
that it would be as bad as it was. The trailer baits you in, with what
seemed a promising plot. And left intrigue. By the end of the film it
is clear that it was nothing more than a cheap ruse.

The film is all over the place. All this films does is take everything
that made the first film great and urinate all over it. The slow motion
kills are done to death....within the first 10 minutes. It contained
more speeches than the Oscars. It was like a game of battleships
(though i would replace the p with a more appropriate t). And between
the over the top action sequences they would stand like Hercules and
pose..constantly. Then there's the blood......In what can only be
described as small versions of The Smoke from "Lost". Maybe done to
cater to 3D, but from the very first kill it was so idiotic and made it
look extremely cheap. Some of the scenes are atrociously acted. Was
sometimes like they where reading their lines from a placard.

The big problem with the film is that is so evident, from the
announcement it was to be made, that it was going to try and ride the
coat tails of the first film. Cling on for dear life to the actual 300,
to the success of the first film. And it showed. It was like "Bourne
Legacy" trying to stand on its own without Jason Bourne. If it was its
own film it would be one of the worst films ever. But they have the
ability to constantly reference Leonidas, even, in a sign of
desperation, show Leonidas on several occasions. At one point
Themistokles seeks him out. But instead talks to everyone else in
Sparta apart from Leonidas. Pointless one would say. 

The film lacks the passion, the originality and the spirit from the
first film. And yet again another moneymaker that chooses to replace
those characteristics with an overexposure of mimicking and a soul-less
display of film making.
<|_=00=_|>
As I loved The 300, I expected a fascinating mix of action, pathos and
inspired history in this sequel. What I received was an uninspired,
pathetic and unmoving piece of non-history. The bright spot was
Artemisia's portrayal; what was, frankly, boring was the meaningless
violence. Meaningless, because the viewer was given no reason to care
for the main character, Themistokles, nor for Athens, nor for the
Greeks as a whole. The back stories for why both Artemisia and Xerxes
turned vengeful were compelling. (Though, as a PhD historian, I can
attest they are both ludicrously false.) But for the Greeks, there
simply is no backstory, no reason to care for them at all. "Oh, Athens
is burning, ... meh." What is worse, the actual history could have
given a plot that the film sorely lacked -- a tiny, terrified democracy
is convinced, by free speech and a weird prophecy, to allow itself to
be physically destroyed. Then the Greeks allow all to ride on
Themistokles' desperate gamble, to trick the Persian fleet into
attacking them in the straights of Salamis. (By the way, Artemisia
actually tries to convince Xerxes to NOT send the fleet in.) The film
gives us no portrayal of Athens, democracy, weird prophecies, or
Themistokles' true brilliance. Nor does it reveal that the nascent
Western world was balanced on a knife edge. Instead, we are expected to
believe that a horse and Sparta come to the rescue. Pathos has become
simply pathetic. Not even Ozzy's excellent "War Pigs" could keep people
seated during the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
1. The back story of the villains in this film is more interesting than
the story of the 2-dimensional leads in it. 2. The cartoon blood was
distracting. I half expected to see some ACME Anvils land on some
Persian dude's head. 3. The slow motion to fast motion gimmick was old
5 years ago, and if we want to see 300 style action sequences, we will
watch 300. Beautiful imagery, but I'd rather see paintings of it rather
than 2 hours of slow- mo. 4.Under explained stakes and characters. I
still have no idea why anyone was fighting and what they were fighting
over really. And furthermore I felt more sad for the lead villain who
was raped repeatedly as a slave child rather than the leading men who
think it's cool to have sex with the enemy. And the other heroes from
300 are a culture of people who not only beat children but discard
BABIES if they are not born perfectly. These are our heroes? The
Persians at least didn't mention that in their back story. 5. This film
is almost all exposition. Nearly 80% of the dialogue is either
Braveheart style speeches to 10,000 soldiers who somehow can hear one
man without a microphone, or two over-acting characters speaking in
inconsistent British accents to remind the audience of what's going on
and what they're going to do. 6. If you can't get Gerard Butler to
perform ANY speaking lines in the film, just cut him out completely. It
was laughable how many times they did the "OH, Your favorite character,
GERARD BUTLER, JUST left..you JUST missed him..so here is stock photos
from the last movie of him...and oh his wife and this guy were in the
last movie...and you know them...so they will speak on his behalf" 7.
King Leonidas' wife is just as skilled as any Spartan on the
battlefield and leads them from the front lines? OK. 8. If Hollywood is
going to only make remakes, reboots, and adaptations of earlier works,
they should at very least think a bit more on the script before pooping
it out. There is no substance in this film, no real story, no stakes,
and worst of all, no serious supporting actor. 9. On a positive note,
the extras in this film are HILARIOUS. Comedy gold. 10. I cannot take
this movie seriously, and I am their target audience. Worth a DVD
rental for some fun, but even in 3D it gets old.

Try again Hollywood cash-cow Inc.
