
The faceplate reviewer goes out of his way to pan the leads, Harrison
Ford and Brendan Fraser as being too old, curmudgeonly and too fat and
weepy. OK. Thanks for expressing those opinions, which, BTW, I don't
share. Yes. There's no doubt this is a sentimental flick with great
emotional overtones and certainly qualifies as a three hanky job.
Seeing children suffer, whether they're cute, charming, cuddly or not,
is not pleasant. But, the fact that there are these kinds of kids who
endure the ravages of disease stemming from their own bodies is a sad
reality and I would argue it takes a pretty stern person to consider
these conditions unemotionally. The movie is based on a book and like
any biopic, a certain amount of license is taken in bringing the story
to the screen. However, the story is never maudlin. The script is full
of sentiment but never slips down to the level of being overly
sentimental. In effect, it's a tale of people with various agendas
driven by the desperation of a father trying to help his children from
dying an early death. There is no deus ex machina, here. The conflicts
which impede the goal largely stem from the personal agendas of the
players in the drama. Sound familiar? You bet. That's what good writing
is all about and when life imitates myth, it's even better. This is a
good movie. Go see it. And, if you do so without puddling up at the
eyeballs, you're made of sterner stuff than me.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film with some personal trepidation, but the lure of
a possibly good story drew me in. I can say I wasn't disappointed. It's
often difficult to objectively assess the work in a contemporary film
because much of the surroundings seem common place. I can say that the
sets, art direction and costuming seemed to be a comfortable fit and
lent it a sense of realism that I appreciated and that also happened to
add to the fine production quality of the film.

But as must be the case in a film of this nature, the quality
ultimately comes down to the efforts invested by the director and his
cadre of accomplished actors. Their efforts certainly didn't disappoint
me. The lion's share of the load was placed squarely on the shoulders
of Brendan Fraser as John Crowley. I had a personal sense of justice on
the line with how well he might do. There were several scenes that rang
true to life for me; his portrayal of the internally tortured,
desperate and determined father of two terminally ill children made me
feel he did such real fathers justice. I think I can say that because I
once was one myself.

The other performances were excellent as well. I would have a tough
time in faulting Harrison Ford as Dr. Robert Stonehill. He gave a great
performance as an overworked, frustrated scientist - something I can
also relate to as I've been something of a scientist in my past myself.
He felt real to me; I've known men just like him, maybe including me -
I guess you'd have to ask my former colleagues how close it was.

But the other performance that I was particularly taken with was that
of Courtney B. Vance as Marcus Temple. His tight emotional presentation
went right to my heart and hung there heavily. It felt like me, I
wanted to hug the man; maybe cry with him. I'd love to see him receive
a nomination for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar.

Not to be left out is Keri Russell as Aileen Crowley. She gave a good
performance, but to me it seemed a little less emotional than mothers
like this I've personally known; especially my own wife. I also think
they could have given her more space to reveal a character that would
be more in depth but that's not her fault - maybe the screen writers?
So, in the final analysis I think she did a great job and certainly did
nothing to diminish real mothers like her character.

As one may have surmised from what I've written, I may be too
personally prejudiced to look at any film like this with artistic
fairness. So judge me if you like; you can go to a web site at
http://webpages.charter.net/bruce.jones1/ and click on the button
labeled "Belinda" on the left; it gives a personally biased but true
story of my daughter's struggle for life. Let me know what you think
... you can also be treated to photos of the world's largest Lady Bug
collection as a reward for your trip - a collection she started.

The bottom line is this - by all means go see this film; especially if
you've been so fortunate as to never have experienced this kind of
tragedy yourself. And when you do see it, give some thought in the
future to the fact that, in this country, we spend more money
advertising beer than we do fighting lethal childhood diseases.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most underrated films of the year. Clearly this movie was
too intellectual for the general public. Well acted, well directed and
with a very powerful message. The movie shows to what lenghts good
parents will go for their children. It also reveals the difficulty in
placing a new well needed drug with the FDA. The message this movie
reveals is the priority of costs by drug companies over the health
concerns of individuals and families affected by rare diseases. Both
Bryandon Frasier and Harrison Ford deliver powerful performances in
this film. Its refreshing to watch a film and not have to sit thought
the typical car chase or shoot-out.
<|_=00=_|>
Harrison Ford still displays great instincts both as an actor and as an
executive producer. I believed in his character whole-heartedly, and
convincingly-so as the movie unfolded the story. Brendan Fraser is also
very convincing as a decent, but desperate and resourceful father. This
is a movie that made me want to read the book, research the real
issues.

I especially like the way the audience is increasingly drawn in, not
only to the family seeking Dr. Stonehill's cutting edge medical
research, but, moreover, in to the very lives of other families
enduring a plight similar to the family of the main protagonists.

The movie is strong in terms of not over-playing the sentiment, which
it would have been so easy to do.
<|_=00=_|>
"Extraordinary Measures" is one of those "feel-good", "inspirational"
films which is actually feel-good and inspirational but in a very
generic kind-of-way.

Brendan Fraser awkwardly stars as a businessman who desperately hopes
that "they" will find a cure for Pompe disease, which two of his
children are dying from. As you would expect, he stays up late
researching trying to find the latest advances. This teams him up with
Harrison Ford, an unpersonable scientist, who also provides the few
comic relief moments.

Based on a true story, but in such a way that although the overall
story may come from real life, all the events shown are surely
fictional. It's dramatic when we need it to be and things work out when
we need them to - way too formulaic and tidy for real life. They tell
us some of the science behind the cure, which is of course nonsense,
but it's supposed to get the audience more invested in what's
happening; however, it's just a reminder that this is Hollywood not
real life.

Let me go back to the beginning, "Extraordinary Measures" is feel-good
and inspirational, and if you like those types of movies, this one
plays out exactly as it's supposed to. You'll get swept up into the
story and cry when you're supposed to. Everything is right on cue.
<|_=00=_|>
Please change the poster of the movie, it doesn't reflect the movie for
what it really is. I didn't think that I'll be watching a dramatic feel
good movie. I was surprised. Brendan's and Harrison's acting is superb,
the dialogs are incredible and the story... the story is a familiar
one. Parents who try by extraordinary measures to save their kids'
lives who suffer from a deadly illness. Sure, it's a familiar story,
but this is worth watching. Engaging, fascinating and no dull moments.
I didn't want the movie to end since it made me feel so good. Don't be
surprised if you'll even shed a tear.

So ignore the poster and watch this movie if you like heart warming
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
The story starts with John Crowley(Brendan Fraser) who's two young kids
have a deadly disease called Pompa. And are not expected to live long.
Much of the heartbreaking of him and his wife(Keri Russell). But John
one day decides to try and do something, he goes to see a doctor and
scientist Robert Stonehill(Harrison Ford) who's research about the
disease could be helpful. And John will help Stonehill set his
research, in hopes to make a cure. But will they is the question? 

A true story that was very well told. Brendan Fraser performance is so
good he almost brings you too tears. Keri Russell also great has the
mother. Harrison Ford at times I felt overacted in some scenes,but he
was good none the less. A truly great well told story.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie - Brendan Fraser did well in a dramatic role, and Harrison
Ford was good too, though it is the kids that really stole the show
-all 3 were very well cast. Would have liked to have seen more Keri
Russell. This movie tells an amazing true story with a little Hollywood
thrown in for good measure. The audience all laughed out loud at
several parts, and while there are some tear-jerker moments, when it's
all said & done the movie has a feel good ending and is inspiring. I
have also read the book that this movie is based on, and the script
writer did a nice job of translating the book into the big screen. The
movie was true to the science - with a scientist on set who was
personally involved in ERT research for Pompe, even the equations on
the boards in Stonehill's office are accurate. This has been a personal
project of Ford's for years - well done. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty much what I expected it to be, a well told and heart-warming
story about dedication, love and endurance. What I did doubt about this
film was the casting. All doubts were quickly dispelled because
everyone was PERFECT in their roles. You knew Harrison Ford would
deliver but both Brendan Fraser and Keri Russell were amazing as
desperate parents determined to save their kids. The film is
predictable, maybe to a fault and really didn't go for the deep
emotional impact that I was expecting but it still hits home hard
enough. The ending seemed also to be somewhat abrupt but still, I
enjoyed this movie very much.
<|_=00=_|>
The haters won't like it, people with a heart will. It's based on true
events, it was well preformed and it is a very touching movie. It's
easily Harrison Ford's most dramatic and touching performance in years,
quite possibly the most serious role Bredan has done his whole career. 

It's an inspiring story based on true events. Some people compare it to
a Life Time movie and I fail to see how you can do that when it's based
on the real World. Anyone who has ever been through family illness
knows that this movie is not up in the clouds some place.

It's a movie about family and friends that leave everything else behind
in their lives and take extraordinary risks, measures to follow their
passions, protect those they love.
