
Reading the review of "Ticklegear" I had to check out his other
postings. Apparently Mark Walberg is his anti-actor. There was not one
movie with Walberg that he remotely liked. "Walberg stinks up another
movie"..Walberg this..Walberg that. Man...just DON'T bother going to
any of his movies. I suppose he thought "Ted" was a stinker also. As
far as "2 Guns" he was dead wrong. This movie was great. The chemistry
between Walberg and Washington couldn't be better. The humor (mostly
from Walberg) couldn't have been any better also. The story line was
fast and above all easy to follow. The action scenes were as good as
one could want. Not over bearing (like this summer's "Man Of Steel")but
a great crime thriller. I wasn't a fan of Walberg's when he first
started appearing in films but have progressed to where I totally enjoy
his current movies. Regardless,if you like a thriller/drama/comedy
you'll love "2-Guns". Rated a one star by "Ticklegear'???...give me a
break!
<|_=00=_|>
When the credits started, I had a big smile on my face.

What is your perception of 2 Guns? Whether you've seen the trailer or
read the comic, you might have an idea what sort of movie this is. If
so, you will be correct and happy you decided to watch it.

The big surprise many seem to have is the fact that this movie is based
on the 2 GUNS comic Boom! Studios put out in 2007. I'll admit, despite
the fact that I've always read a lot of Boom's comics, this series
somehow completely snuck by. I did read the series before watching the
movie. Whether or not you should do that, we'll get to that in minute.

The movie stars Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg. That in itself is
pretty impressive. These two actors crank up the charisma during the
movie. You can't help but enjoy their presence on screen.

These two guys are planning on robbing a bank. It turns out it wasn't a
simple bank and they ended up with way more than they thought. The
twists and turns avalanche upon them as they discover others that are
interested in the money plus the fact that they don't know each other
as well as they thought. If you've watched the trailer, you probably
know more about the movie than you should.

Washington and Wahlberg are great together. For a movie with a lot of
shooting and one- liners, it's the kind you can just become immersed
in. This is pure entertainment. Parts may get a little outrageous and a
tad predictable. But there are still plenty of twists to catch you off
guard. You'll laugh, you'll be on the edge of your seat and you'll even
find yourself flinching or cringing a little at times.

Should you or should you not read the comic first?

That really depends on how much you want to know ahead of time. Some of
the twists weren't revealed in the trailers. The movie is pretty
faithful to the comic, something pretty rare for a "comic book movie."
There are obviously some minor differences but if you have read it
before, you'll smile hearing some lines taken directly from the comic.
Washington's casting is a bit of a departure. I felt as if his
character and Wahlberg's were closer in age in the comic. But seeing
the two together, it absolutely does not matter. These two made the
movie fun.

You're probably aware this isn't a piece of fine art. It's not meant to
be. Usually at this point in the summer, all the "big" Hollywood movies
have been released. This is a movie that gives you a reason to go back
to the theaters one more time.

It's more than just about Washington and Wahlberg. Those two could have
easily carried the burden of being the box office draw. We are also
treated to great performances by Bill Paxton, Edward James Olmos, James
Marsden and Paula Patton. That's what makes the movie even more of a
pleasant surprise. You get a sense that some thought and care was put
into the making of this movie. Not only is it faithful to the comic,
the filmmakers also made sure it had a great cast and delivered a
really good quality production.

The movie is rated R. Clearly there is quite a bit of violence. There's
plenty of shooting, killing and explosions. It gets a little over the
top but that's what you should expect from this kind of movie. There is
also some brief nudity and plenty of profanity. In other words, this
isn't a family film. What it is is a movie you go see with your
friends. Buy some popcorn, lean back in your seat and just enjoy the
movie and have a great time.

I mentioned leaving the theater with a smile. It's not a "feel good"
movie. But it will make you laugh and give you a good time. That's
exactly what I want for my money. It's fun and absurd with over the top
action. Do I want a sequel? Boom! Studios did release 3 GUNS this week.
I would indeed love to see these two return to the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
'2 Guns' turned out to be a better film than I expected it to be. I
liked the plot and it had plenty of twists and turns. It is quite
suspenseful in places and keeps you guessing. It is about a bank
robbery (the masks here were quite cool) that goes wrong and the two
have to team up to put it right.

The acting is very good. Mark Wahlberg and Denzel Washington were a
very good team, they had a good on screen chemistry and I liked how
their friendship developed. The supporting cast were also good.

The film is a mixture of action and comedy. There are good shoot out
scenes and car chases etc. Then there is comedy thrown in for good
measure, made even funnier because it's silly humour in a serious
situation. Mark Wahlberg's character has some memorable funny moments
and both do the action scenes very well.

Overall it was a good fast paced action film, it had suspense and
humour too. A really good mixture. At 1 hour and 35 minutes I felt it
was a good length, you got everything you wanted out of it and it
wasn't dragged on like some other films would. I enjoyed it from start
to finish and would recommend it.

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The right pairing of actors together can make or break a movie. And
since 1967 there have been buddy cop movies. Now "In the Heat of the
Night" is no "48 Hrs." or "Lethal Weapon", but the concept is the same.
Two cops or cons/cops with opposite styles, attitudes, and methods
coming together for a common goal. Well with "2 Guns" I think I found
one of my favorite pairings in this genre and of the year, Wahlberg and
Washington.

I don't know, maybe it has something to do with the screen play written
by Blake Masters, or maybe it is the characters created by Steven Grant
for his comic book series. I think it's the combination of both, but it
was Wahlberg and Washington who make it all come alive. Bobby (Denzel
Washington) and Stig (Mark Wahlberg) are two criminals trying to work
their way up the crime food chain. Unbeknownst to each other, both Stig
and Bobby are undercover, trying to achieve the same goal. The goal is
to bring down Papi Greco (Edward James Olmos), who is a drug kingpin.
The way they decide to do so is to rob a bank that Greco has some money
stashed away in. Instead of getting Greco's money, Stig and Bobby rob
the C.I.A of forty three million dollars. What follows is a lot of
one-liners, and if the title didn't give it away, a lot of gun fights.

When it comes to the month of August, it is the place where the
questionable movies go. The not-good-enough-for-July dump bin if you
will. They are questionable because they are not the "big" summer
movies, but summer movies none the less. When it comes to "2 Guns" I
think the studio got it right. This is the perfect movie to follow all
those sequels and not so fun "big summer movies" (yes I am talking to
you Lone Ranger). How about a fun movie with two actors that everyone
loves? With plenty of action mixed in with just the right amount of
comedy, this is the kind of movie I look forward to seeing. Mark
Wahlberg makes the movie, and the reason is simple, he doesn't play
that guy he plays in almost every move he is in. You know the quiet but
nice guy, who just looks tough. In "2 Guns" Walhberg plays a cocky bad
ass, who is good at what he does and he lets you know it every chance
he gets. Denzel on the other hand is just Denzel, which after saying
that, I have said all I needed to say. Directed by Baltasar Kormakur,
who makes a good version of a Michael Bay movie. This is a great choice
if you are looking for something fun to do this weekend, because in my
mind, you can never go wrong with a fun time at the movies.

Brian Taylor

http://the2cinemen.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
7/10

I had heard about this movie back before the main cast was attached and
once I heard Marky Mark and Denzel were on board, I had to see it as
soon as it came out. Lucky enough, my local theater had it 4 hours
earlier than most so I caught an 8 p.m. showing with a heavily packed
crowd who I laughed along with much more than I thought I would, but
more about that later.

The movie had a little bit of The Departed in it in terms of plot and
characters, and had little hints of comedic buddy cop films like Rush
Hour. The plot itself was pretty well thought out with a few minor lazy
elements but overall it made for an entertaining and very quick 109
minutes. Despite having somewhat predictable twists and turns, the way
they play out in terms of result/consequence keep you guessing if only
at least for a little bit, and it's those minor sequences of suspense
or confusion that kept the movie interesting for me.

In terms of acting, of course Mark and Denzel bring it on and make for
a believable pair of righteous men on a track they can't quite figure
out. The introduction of so many different crews of people after our
two main protagonists reminded me of Midnight Run. To the some of you
who remember that film, if you liked that, I can tell you that many of
it's elements are brought to surface in 2 Guns.

One thing to be noted is definitely the very pleasantly surprising
amount of genuinely funny content throughout the movie. There are very
frequent scenes of dialog that are written ever so smoothly, and along
with the perfect delivery of our two seasoned veterans, they make for
very realistic dialogs and conversations throughout. 

Overall, the film was very well written with very immersing dialog, had
great acting across the board, but fell somewhat flat with seemingly
predictable twists and turns, and some scenes where suspending your
disbelief is just too hard. But hey, it was great for what it was
trying to be: A fun, entertaining, lightly suspenseful ride!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty good movie and is definitely worth watching and
probably gonna watch it again when it again when it is free. If you
love action there is a very good amount in this movie. The movie also
has comedy throughout which definitely makes you laugh. Has a very good
plot especially compared to a lot of movies this generation. It also
has a good conspiracy plot so if you like that then this is also good
movie for you. The movie has two likable actors in Denzel and Mark
Whalberg. For Mark Wahlberg this is a big improvement from Broken Ciy
which I was not a fan of. Wahlberg is also very funny in the movie.
Denzel was good too and he showed comedy. In the end if you like action
or like comedy or Wahlberg and Denzel I think you will like this movie
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the ultra-violent comic-book miniseries by Steven Grant, "2
Guns" director Baltasar Kormákur hits all the right notes
stylistically, but comes up short on everything else. Don't anticipate
a hard-hitting drama or an edge-of-the-seat thriller because the real
focus of the movie is on the ever so slightly humorous relationship
between its two main characters: Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg.
Both interact well enough together, but the film falls flat when
they're separated, and sometimes it's for long stretches. However,
director Baltasar Kormákur shows a great deal of improvement over the
last time he worked with Wahlberg in the disappointing, and uninspiring
"Contraband" (2012). 

"2 Guns" is about a pair of undercover agents, neither of whom is aware
of his partner's real identity. Bobby Trench (Denzel Washington) is a
DEA agent and Stig (Mark Wahlberg) is Navy Intelligence, but both are
playing the role of a legitimate crook. Their mutual goal is to take
down the cartel headed by Lord Papi Greco (Edward James Olmos). Their
plan to do this, which is never really explained in a way that the
audience can truly understand, has something to do with robbing a bank
where Papi's money is supposedly stashed in safe deposit boxes. 

After the robbery takes place, however, it comes to light that the
stolen money belongs to the CIA and their enforcer Earl (Bill Paxton),
and he wants it back. The DEA intends to use it in a trial against Papi
because getting a search warrant would be too much of a hassle.
Naturally, our heroes end up being targets for what they know, having
to finally work together to piece together your standard
run-of-the-mill double cross extravaganza. 

The real business of "2 Guns" is the camaraderie between the two
bickering leads, which comes across a lot like flirting. They finish
each other's sentences, order each other's breakfast, chat about "Les
Misérables," and even have a scene where they stroll into the sunset
arm in arm. There are chases, shootouts, and explosions, but there is
nothing here you haven't seen before. With the exception of the final
shootout sequence, the cinematography rarely impresses. There is
limited amount of fun had in watching how Bobby and Stig survive a
variety of seemingly inescapable situations, but sadly the predictable
plot keeps getting in the way of all the action. 

The elements gel well enough to make "2 Guns" an enjoyable summer
cinematic experience. However, it is never any doubt how things will
play out, and it's nothing likely to resonate after the dust has
settled.
<|_=00=_|>
Washington and Wahlberg, the W duo. Washington is undercover DEA agent
Bobby Trench and Wahlberg is naval intelligence officer Stig Stigman
who is undercover as well; they're both working together to try and rob
a powerful drug lord. Simple? Well, not entirely, mainly because each
one doesn't know that the other is also working undercover. This is
just the beginning of the complications and twists that they are about
to face in this thrill ride. 

Negatives: The movie has a few clichés here and there, as well as
action scenes that aren't really new in any way and in general just
feel quite lacking.

Positives: Small twists and turns in the plot will keep you guessing
for a while, but what really makes this movie worth it is the
chemistry. The W duo are just excellent together, their interactions
seem genuine and are delivered in a way that is quite satisfying to
watch, especially from Wahlberg's side. Also Washington's undercover
character was superb, I believe everyone met or knows someone who is
like him.

This is a movie that doesn't take itself seriously, so for you to enjoy
it you must lighten up, grab a couple of friends, some popcorn and
watch the film zip away with it's fun flair.
<|_=00=_|>
2 Guns is reminiscent of buddy cop movies in the late eighties and
nineties. Unlike a lot of recent throwback 80's action films, it
tastefully retains much of the fun factor by concentrating on character
and dialogue and removing some of the modern tropes that have gone
stale, like overloading the film with pop culture references. With its
setup and buddy dynamic, at times it actually reminded me of the 1996
Adam Sandler and Damon Wayons buddy cop movie Bulletproof.

What elevated 2 Guns from standard action fare were exactly the snappy
lines and the buddy dynamic between Washington and Wahlberg. The two
lead actors create a believable long-time friendship and it gave the
movie a sizzling charm that you just can't look away from. Watching
Walhberg and Washington rapidly throw zingers back and forth alone made
the price of admission. After seeing his facetious performance in this
film, it's easy now to imagine Mark Wahlberg taking over the role of
Tony Stark in future Marvel films.

The film has a good supporting cast. James Marsden and Edward James
Olmos seem overqualified for these supporting roles. It's nice to see
them but they have too little time to truly shine. Paula Patton is cast
in a seemingly intelligent female role, but is ultimately there for her
sex appeal. Bill Paxton is the only one who gets to properly chew up
some scenery as a scary CIA agent with a flair for torturing his
victims.

The story moved along fast like a shark, for fear that stopping for a
thoughtful pause would ruin its momentum and shatter the illusion of
how complicated the plot seems. The action scenes are fun. More
importantly, they are visible and you can follow what's going on. When
it came to the finale, the film forgoes all the dramatic buildup from
the first two acts and serves a lesser solution to its conflict. Had it
been a slower moving story with less charming leads, I would have
considered the finale a cop out ending.

But this time, I just went with it. 2 Guns just oozes old school charm,
and charm can go a long way.

For more reviews, please visit my film blog @
http://hkauteur.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Had a chance to view it this week with only the trailer as a guide as
to what I was about to see. It turned out to be mildly better than I
was anticipating. Mark Wahlberg brought a comical element that worked
with the overall story with Denzel basically being the straight man
throughout. Denzel plays his role smoothly with a slight sarcastic
comedic side. I thought they both played off each other very well to
keep you intrigued with the ongoing twisting plot. Good to see James
Edward Olmos after a long absence from the big screen. Always be LT.
Castillo from Miami Vice fame to me. Don't base your opinion on the
trailer as I had. Worth a look.
