
I loved the first film. I normally like straight-faced horror films
(such as "Let the Right One In") but still enjoyed the humor-infused
blood-fest that is "Hatchet." I was disappointed in this sequel. It
looked cheaply made and wasn't as funny, but that's not its biggest
problem. Unlike the first film, most of the characters are unlikeable
so who cares if they get slaughtered? If you're only into gore, you'll
get your fix here. This one works harder on being bloodier. I didn't
like the change or additional information in the history of Victor
Crowley, Marybeth and her dad. It really wasn't needed. Plus, after
what she went through in the first film, I couldn't buy that Marybeth
would go back for more, despite the reasons given. I also didn't care
for Danielle Harris as Marybeth. As horror films go, it's not bad, it
just doesn't have the clever wit of the first one, but it is gorier.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Green gets it. Horror movies are fun. Hatchet 2 may be the funnest
horror movie of them all, and to it's slight detriment, the film has so
much fun, that we forget that people are being viciously murdered. Once
again, Green populates the slasher film with a bevy of extremely
likable fodder for Hodder. Hatchet nods in the general direction of
it's forefathers, the horror franchises of the eighties, before it
takes a belt-sander to what is expected from a slasher film. It is a
greatest kills marathon, full of kills you have never seen before. The
story expands upon and strengthens the first film and leaves you
wanting oh so much more Victor Crowley. No CGI gore. No excruciating
torture scenes, just lots and lots of body rippin' and mutalatin'. Go
see it, but try and come out with all your pieces.
<|_=00=_|>
Hatchet II begins on quite a dull note of our leading lady(Danielle
Harris) trying to get away from a hideous looking human. But just a few
reels later, the roller-coaster ride of full-on violence & savage
slaughter begins and the body count or body pieces rather, keep piling
up till the topping at the finale :) When I saw the movie poster, I
anticipated some dread thinking of all that slaying but when you
actually watch the scenes, it looks comical! More like a gory comedy to
me, made to induce laughter than fear. 

The story or the proceedings don't make sense in many places - dumb
people who don't even make an escape move when the monster chases them
down with a loooong chainsaw & some other similar stuff. But probably
that's the only flipside. I was having enough fun watching the hacking
& nudity :) I guess, this movie proves once again that slaughter &
nudity in movies always gel very well, hehe.

Nothing much to talk about the acting, except for Danielle Harris and
Tony Todd(as Reverend Zombie). Both add to the excitement with their
expressions of anguish, fear, desperation or cold anger.

Verdict: Satisfies your dark fantasies. Hack, hack away :)
<|_=00=_|>
It started off quite different to the first; after spending some time
explaining things about the killer however, things returned to campy
slasher territory.

This time, Tony Todd takes hunters into the woods so the cast consists
of older people mostly.

Perhaps because of watching many films commissioned by sci-fi channel I
was familiar with films that featured gun-toting guys without much
personality and I was surprised when the hunters had varying oddball
personalities. Obviously bloody deaths occur. Basically its a film
where descriptions can't substitute for watching it. It's highly
entertaining though.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Hatchet, I think it one of best slasher movies to come out in
the last few years.

I really wanted to love this movie, the gore was good and some really
good nasty gory deaths scenes, Victor did not look that scary this time
around.

I Really hate it when sequels recast one of the main characters in
movie, (It did not work in A Nigthmare on elm street 4 and it did not
work in this movie for me) I liked the old Marybeth better as I have
seen her in 8 Simple Rules and USA High and then they replace her with
the girl in this movie.

New recast sucked all the fun out of this movie for me, it took me to
long to get used to her playing Marybeth.

Gory sequel. no were near as good as the first movie.

I was dying to see this movie from the start of this years, I was
saying I going to give this 10 out of 10 When come out but ended up
giving it disappointing 5 out of 10 :(
<|_=00=_|>
I'd say the first half of Hatchet 2 is a bit sillier and even campier
than the first, but the films last half-hour really makes up for it.

THis is one seriously gory flick. It's gorier than the original, and
funnier than the original. It might actually be better than the
original, but it's an awfully tight race.

Adam Green still has me on the edge of my seat waiting for his next
horror project. Guess I'll have to wait for the DVD release of Hatchet
3 next month - even though he didn't direct.

Hatchet 2 is a little better than the original on the acting/cast front
as well. In the original we see a bunch of undeveloped boobs getting
knocked-off left and right. Here, there's a little more substance to
who's getting their heads ripped off.

This thing gets pretty intense down the stretch. Thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me start off by saying that I liked the original Hatchet
very much. It was a fun, if cheesy, return to the glory days of
American slashers in the early 80s with surprising good special effects
and a relative cast of unknowns acting their hearts out. The sequel
*probably* could have been something awesome, unfortunately it looks
like most of the budget got frittered away on: 

1. Danielle Harris, 2. Tony Todd, 3. Kane Hodder 

Not that these actors aren't worth a few extra dollars. They absolutely
are. There is, however, this thing called *budgeting* that you need to
be familiar with when you make a movie and, if you blow your whole
budget (or most of it) on recruiting name talent, then everything else
will suffer. 

I knew there were going to be problems right from the very start of the
film. The film opens with Danielle Harris (Hey! That's not the chick
who played the heroine last time!) wrestling with Victor Crowley (Hey!
The make-up isn't applied to the area surrounding his eyes in the
close-up!) and eventually eye-gouging him (Hey! That shot is obviously
staged with a dummy head!) to get away. 

It's really a bad, bad, opening scene in a very jarring kind of way
and, unfortunately, it sets the tone for the rest of the film. I really
think that this sequel would have been deserving of its theatrical
release with a better eye toward budgeting things differently. As it
stands, it's really more worthy of a straight to DVD release.
<|_=00=_|>
Marybeth Dunston (Danielle Harris) goes to Honey Island Swamp to search
for her missing gator hunter daddy and her brother and runs afoul of
Victor Crowley (Kane Hodder). After jabbing out his eye with her
finger, she makes her way to a shack where Jack Cracker (John Carl
Buechler) takes her in. That is, until he learns her last name. He then
kicks her out and tells her to go see Clive Washington aka Reverend
Zombie (Tony Todd). As Jack sits down to watch footage from "Bayou
Beavers," Victor barges in, rips his intestines out and then uses then
to strangle him and pop off his head. Afterward, Marybeth goes to see
the Reverend and learns all about the curse of the Crowley family...
and how her father was one of three kids responsible for setting the
Crowley shack on fire, leading to the death of young Victor. As a
result, his ghost has haunted the swamp ever since.

Seeking vengeance for her family's murders, Marybeth strikes up a deal
with Zombie: He'll have his assistant Justin (Parry Shen; playing the
brother of the character he played in the original) organize a posse of
hunters if she gets her uncle to come along on the expedition. Marybeth
comes through on her end of the deal by convincing her Uncle Bob (Tom
Holland, best known as the director of FRIGHT NIGHT and CHILD'S PLAY)
to come, as does the Reverend, who's able to convince a handful of
people to accompany them by promising 500 dollars just for coming and
an additional 5000 for anyone who's able to "kill" Crowley. Kill a
ghost? Yeah, I know. R.A. Mihailoff (Leatherface from TCM III) and AJ
Bowen (THE SIGNAL) are among those along for the ride. The gang take
their boats deep into the swamp where they're slaughtered in various
ridiculous ways by the hulking, monstrous Crowley.

This both looks and feels much cheaper than the first and that's no big
surprise considering the original was shot on 35mm film for 1.5
million, while this one was shot on digital for half that budget.
Still, this manages to make a few slight improvements. For starters,
the obnoxious, childish comedy elements have been toned down a bit
here, which, in my opinion, is a good thing. Second, there's a nice
flashback sequence explaining the origins of the killer. And third,
Tony Todd gets to play a leading role this time out and, as per his
usual, does a great job holding things together. Harris, on the other
hand, I did not like. Her character is pretty grating, one-note and
shrill and her come-and-go Southern accent (I THINK that's what she was
shooting for at least) is terrible. The rest of the cast is so-so,
though Colton Dunn deserves a special shout-out for being pretty
amusing in his small part.

But let's get real here, the target audience isn't really going to care
much about the dialogue, plot, acting or production values: they've
come here for the gore, and this delivers on that front. The director
seems especially fond of head and face mutilations. There's a face
sliced off, a face chopped to a bloody pulp, a face smashed to a bloody
pulp, a face chopped to bits by an outboard motor and a head getting
sanded down (and then smashed in) with a belt sander. Green also lets
his inner 11-year-old out with "funny" murders like a guy getting
decapitated while screwing his ex-girlfriend, a girl getting a hatchet
buried in her ass and two guys getting their crotches simultaneously
chewed up with the most comically big chainsaw you'll ever see.

There are lots of film references, in-jokes and cameos here, too. Emma
Bell and Shawn Ashmore (two of the stars of the director's FROZEN) both
show up for second-long cameos, a few of the actresses from the first
HATCHET are seen in handy cam footage and, during the hunter's meeting,
you can spot genre directors Lloyd Kaufman, Ryan Schifrin, Dave Parker
and Mike Mendez. Green also gives himself a cameo puking up some
creamed corn on a street corner. A classy fella he is.
<|_=00=_|>
There wasn't much difference between this sequel and the first movie.
Pretty much the exact same thing happens. This time the girl, Mary
Beth, whom survived the first night is back to return to the swamp with
Rev Zombie's help for a really stupid reason: to bring back the bodies
of her family. So Zombie gathers a crew and they go to the swamp that
night. Zombie has a plan to put an end to Crowley's ghost. 

Do plans ever work with freaky killers-No! So you get more blood and
gore and skulls bashed in, plus some faces cut off.

FINAL VERDICT: If you never have your fill of slasher films, check it
out.
<|_=00=_|>
With 80's slashers, their effect on me is actually relaxing. We have a
bunch of characters who the filmmaker generally deems worthless (except
a few, who make it to the end) so that we don't have to actually invest
anything until their inconsequential deaths, clear, simple-minded
notions of good and evil, and contrived mechanisms that explain them
away (the evil presence is usually described by some kind of simplified
trauma). None of this happens in real life, so none of this actually
has potential to breach the divide and actually unsettle. It's a movie
fantasy, one oddly espousing deeply conservative values (prudence is
generally rewarded) that fly in the face of the crowd that avidly sees
them.

Like the first Hatchet, this is a knowingly cartoonish version of this.
The deaths are delightfully absurd. At some point the baddie in this,
Vincent Crowley, shows up with a chainsaw six feet long. The film knows
what part it plays in the tradition and has fun with it.

What is actually problematic about these films is that, for all the
parody, they still posit themselves as straight slasher films. It
doesn't work, the hackneyed plot above all where a band of mercenaries
is hastily assembled to venture into the bayou. Or what they aim to do
once there.

The Japanese as usual are more savvy about this kind of thing. In films
like The Machine Girl, they put together all kinds of cultural stamps
they have produced and obsessed over the years (video games, anime,
martial arts, extreme violence, erotica) and obliterate one against the
other.

Here, I assume the filmmaker doesn't have a grasp of how the pastiche
can be made to work. Probably because he doesn't understand or care to
anything other than this kind of film. The splatter works, what's
around it not so much.
