
I have to say I'm very surprised at all the negative reviews I've been
reading. I'm an avid movie lover, frequenting the theaters at least
twice a week if not more. Something about being able to just sit back
in a dark room, with a big screen and great sound. It's just good fun.
Movies are enjoyable, not all are realistic and I think that's the
point. If I wanted something realistic, I would watch a documentary
(which I do on many occasions).

I think a lot of the reviews are being very unfair to this movie. I
have seen the original and I loved it. Especially when I first saw it
as a kid, it scared the crap out of me. But we have to remember that we
are in a new age with different technologies and expectations. I bet
that if the original was released for the first time right now, it
would have been shot down even more than this "remake." Although I love
the original, the effects don't scare me like they used to. And people
who complain about the acting and script of the new movie? Come on. It
wasn't perfect, but it's nowhere near as bad as others are making it
out to be. And Jane Levy was absolutely AMAZING in this film. I would
watch this movie over and over again just to see her act.

People are judging this movie too harshly. Was this movie enjoyable?
Yes. Very much so. Were the effects good? The effects were A+ and the
score was magnificent. Would I see it again? Yes. I would go see it
again at the movies AND buy it as soon as it's available on Blu Ray.

This movie is not meant to be a remake of the first, rather a
reawakening of an old and classic evil. Watch this movie with an open
mind and you will love it. Watch it and compare it to the original? You
will hate it, because they are not the same movies. Both were
brilliant, but I would be lying if I didn't say that I enjoyed this
version a lot more than the old one. Acting by Levy was perfect, gore
was fantastic, scares were good, and the movie had my attention all the
way through.
<|_=00=_|>
So I've read here and there that this remake lacks the camp of the
original. And I look back over 20 years ago, watching The Evil Dead on
a crummy rental VHS, in the dark of my teenage bedroom one night. The
camp? The original Evil Dead was a terrifying experience, even with
Bruce Campbell's over the top performance, the film was a scare-fest, a
terrifying trip even nearly ten years after its release. The camp was
in Evil Dead 2, an horror comedy remaking the original already,
technically. 

This remake finds many way to bow to the original, aside the obligatory
visual quotes. The use of practical effects, notably, in an era of CGI-
filled movies, is extremely refreshing. The gore feels painful, makes
you cringe, churned my stomach. It successfully palliates a somewhat
shallow characterization that makes it difficult to root for the
characters (with the exception of Mia, who owes a lot to a really
visceral performance by Jane Levy.)

And this is where Evil Dead 2013 took me by surprise. After roughly a
first half of the movie taking Evil Dead fans by the hand towards
hashed and rehashed territories, making them doubt that this was a good
idea at all, the movie lets go of your hand and you're alone, in the
middle of the woods, and it's dark and there's strange noises all
about... and then limbs start flying. 

I won't get into conjectures that the highly conventional and overly
familiar first half was made that way with the sole purpose of placing
the audience in their comfort zone, only to give more impact to the
second half... but I would surely ask Fede Alvarez if I was to
interview him. 

Evil Dead 2013 is a treat for the fans of gore and horror, in any case.
Another reminder that out of ten awful remakes, sometimes one rises to
the top and delivers. Not for the faint of heart, for sure, but if
you're a true horror fan, and even more, if you miss your old school,
gruesome gore rides, this one is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
'EVIL DEAD': Five Stars (Out of Five)

The first five star movie of 2013 is this long awaited reboot to
writer/director Sam Raimi's 1981 cult classic original 'THE EVIL DEAD'.
It's a loose sequel that finds a new group of young adults stumbling
across the 'book of the dead', from the original trilogy, in the same
cabin that iconic hero Ash and his friends did in the original two
films. Raimi and actor Bruce Campbell (who played Ash) have returned as
producers of the film (along with their buddy Robert G. Tapert, who
produced the original three films). Raimi picked Fede Alvarez to make
his feature film debut directing and co-writing the film (along with
Rodo Sayagues and Diablo Cody). It stars Jane Levy (from TV's
'SUBURGATORY'), Shiloh Fernandez, Lou Taylor Pucci, Jessica Lucas and
Elizabeth Blackmore. Levy plays Mia and she's supposed to reprise the
role for two more films, the last of which is supposed to link this new
film series to the adventures of Ash and the original films (following
a 'ARMY OF DARKNESS 2' movie). I grew up on these films and am
extremely excited to see Raimi and Campbell picking the series up again
and think they're off to a great start.

The story picks up 30 years after the original 'THE EVIL DEAD' film
ended with a new group of kids going to the same cabin so Mia (Levy)
can try to detox and get over her opiate addiction. Her friends Eric
(Pucci), Olivia (Lucas), Natalie (Blackmore) and brother David
(Fernandez) are there as well to help her get through it. They come
across the 'book of the dead' (the Naturom Demonto) from the original
films, in the cellar and Eric foolishly reads from it (despite several
warnings not to). He of course awakens the dead and Mia is possessed.
The others originally think she's just going through withdrawals but
they soon find themselves being taken over and killed off one by one as
they fight the deadites for their survival.

The film was made on a budget of just $17 million (which is a lot
higher than the original film obviously but a pretty small budget by
Hollywood standards). The filmmakers decided not to use CGI (except for
touch ups) and filmed for 70 days. The results are definitely
rewarding. The film really has that 'old school' classic slasher film
feel to it and it's surprisingly loyal to the original films (in
style). It's lacking the power of a performance like Bruce Campbell's
but it is really funny and satirical (more so than the first film I
think but not it's sequels). The violence and gore is out of control
(It was first rated NC-17, like the original) and it really is a true
hardcore horror film; it's truly exhilarating and relentless. I think
the filmmakers did about as good a job as they possibly could rebooting
this classic series and being a huge fan it's an enormous pleasure to
watch. I have no real complaints; it's a masterpiece just like the
original film and it's sequels!

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gn0mEP_zzoQ
<|_=00=_|>
There are definitely more but here is at least 10...

1- After the nurse says that they've done this before with Mia and they
know she will do anything to get away, no one thinks to hide the
vehicles keys in a safe place? Probably even left them in the ignition
too because it looked as though she just jumped into the car and
hightailed it out of there.

Stupid.

2- They have a crack addict with withdrawal symptoms and who's mother
was mentally unstable roaming about in the cabin, but they leave a
shotgun and shells they found in the cellar lying around?

Stupid.

3- They find a cellar with dead cats, an ominous book, blood all around
and a shotgun with shells and they don't think to head back and notify
the authorities that there might have been a possible crime that took
place there? Thinking to themselves, "That's o.k., we're here to help
Mia so who cares if there might have been a murder in this cabin."

Stupid.

4- The Evil needed 5 souls to manifest itself, but I only count three
or four at the most. The girl at the beginning doesn't count because
the Evil was put back in hell, if it wasn't, Eric wouldn't have needed
to read a passage in the book to release it once more now would he? The
dog was killed by Mia with the hammer, it was never possessed. And if
it were possible to possess animals, then why not just possess a bunch
of forest animals instead to get his 5 souls?

So that's three souls from the moment the evil was released by the
incantation, Olivia, Natalie and Eric. Mia? No, her soul was returned
to her body or she wouldn't have been alive at the end to fight the
abomination. I'll be generous and give you David as well since he died
in the cabin fire with the others, but this nonsense I'm reading about
the Evil getting Mia's soul and then loosing it counting as a soul
claimed, that's bull. In order to claim something you have to keep it.
Finders keepers, losers weepers.

Stupid.

5- After the cabin door opens with wind gushing through the cabin, and
Mia telling everyone (in a demonic type voice) that they are all going
to die, the nurse and girlfriend going bat-sh!t crazy, his sister
ending up in the cellar with demonic eyes and all the sh!t going on
around him, David still comes up with "Maybe she got infected by the
dead cats and passed it on to the others, or better yet, maybe she's
just crazy like our mom was in the asylum. I mean, come on, there's
denial and then there's just plain stupidity.

Stupid.

6- David buries Mia, then pulls her out of the ground and she's
miraculously healed? In the original, the deadites were never healed,
they just gave the illusion of being "OK" to further torment Ash. And
before any of you say "We'll Ash was healed after he was turned into
Evil Ash" let me point out that this was in ED2 which was a fantasy
mixed with humour type horror movie. Fans of this keep insisting this
one is a more realistic approach like Raimi envisioned in the first
place. Now you have a choice to make guys, you can't have it both ways.
It's either a more realistic approach in which case Mia should still
have cuts and burns on her body or it's a fantasy based horror where
anything goes. Which is it?

Stupid.

7- Every time something bad was going to happen, wind would blow the
pages of the book to an illustration depicting what was going to happen
giving the audience a heads up. Great way to build suspense there Fede.
Wow!

Stupid.

8- After Mia boils her skin in the shower, the "nurse", finally gives
in and says "Her burns are too severe we have to get her to a
hospital." So, David takes Mia with him, in the only vehicle left I
might add, just the two of them leaving the three others (girlfriend
included) alone in a creepy cabin in the woods in the middle of the
night where strange satanic rituals might have happened in the cellar.
Last time I checked, there's room enough for five in a jeep. He could
have at least taken the nurse with him in case Mia's condition worsened
on their way to the hospital.

Stupid.

9- The abomination, with enough power in it's scrawny little arms to
topple a jeep, had difficulty dragging itself on the ground after Mia
amputated it's feet with the chainsaw. If it had as much power in it's
arms as was shown, it should have easily been capable of doing a hand
stand using it's arms to walk to get at her. Imagine for a second, how
freaking' creepy it would have been to see that coming at her from
around the jeep upside down. It would have been something like the
creatures in the Dead Space video game. Missed opportunity there Fede.

Stupid.

10- Mia starts walking off into the morning sun with her arm cut off
and shoved into her shirt, without even cauterizing the wound. I give
her 15 minutes before she bleeds out and dies on the side of the road.
Even if she makes it that far, she still has to swim across the river
that washed out the road earlier in the movie. She'd never make it with
all the blood loss, she would pass out and drown in the river.

Stupid ending.
<|_=00=_|>
...to the point where a gore-fest like this reset of "The Evil Dead"
series failed to impress me. Sadly, mindless Grand Guignol appears to
be still popular, and the profit margin of this one will undoubtedly
spawn a sequel. More's the pity. Truthfully, the ensemble acting from a
quintet of relative unknowns is passable, the DP work from Kiwi Aaron
"Spartacus: War of the Damned" Morton is quite nice, and certainly the
goo and gristle are up to snuff (been looking for a place to stick that
pun for awhile), but unfortunately it's all in the service of tyro
auteur Fede "Yes, my first feature film!" Alvarez' pedestrian script
and workmanlike-at-best direction. Others are apparently also to blame
for the script, including Diablo "Juno" Cody, and likely should be held
equally responsible---small recompense to the viewer, though.

After a pointless prologue that could have easily been dealt with in a
one-minute flashback, the story (such as it is) settles into an
uninspiring realm of hack work, providing nothing in the way of
interesting characters to latch onto and even less in the way of
surprises, tension and---most important---scares. The film's tagline is
sad example of hyperbole and hubris; the only thing terrifying about
this misfire is that so many people fell for the hype, and now we'll
have to put up with another one down the line. Gone are virtually any
traces of what made Raimi's original film memorable, mostly a sense of
humor and the spark of genuine imagination. Alvarez' "Evil Dead" is
deadly serious and deadly intent on making money from an indiscriminate
audience, which renders it deadly dull.

Let's put it this way: when several of the main characters purportedly
wait "all morning" for the rest of their party to arrive at a remote
cabin without any of them bothering to check and see if they can
actually get in the place, only to discover upon that arrival that the
door has already been breached by forced entry...well, you know as an
audience that your intelligence and willful suspension of disbelief are
not going to be respected, and that all the homages and references to
the original film aren't going to make a bit of difference.

I shudder to think what sort of self-congratulatory extras are going to
be in the BluRay/DVD release. They're certainly going to be more
entertaining (but not in a good way) than this hapless remake of a
classic lo-fi horror movie that should have been left alone.

8.27.13 edit: Against my better judgment, I revisited this one on DVD
(okay, fine, it was from the library, shoot me) and stand by everything
I said above. Thankfully, the three promo featurettes were not, as I
had feared, overly self-congratulatory, and actually left me feeling a
little more charitable toward the writer/director and his leading lady,
but none of them altered my opinion of the film itself. "Evil Dead" is
make-work, Sturgeon's Revelation all the way.
<|_=00=_|>
Remake or not, this film is an absolute bore. It seems the director
spent more time getting nice looking shots rather than focusing on
performances that should propel the narrative, which they don't. Far
from it. The problem starts with the screenplay, which is just dumb,
since the focus is on character development, a useless tool if the
performances aren't directed well enough. The cabin and the woods is
simply not a character as it is in the original, there are minutes of
boring dialogue at the cabin before they even open the door. It is
gory, but it has little affect since the performances are so terrible
that the audience couldn't give a damn if they die or not. Decent work
with CGI gore but still not convincing enough. No special makeup
effects (appliances). Unlike other remakes (dawn of the dead, the Texas
chainsaw massacre) that actually REMAKE the majority of the film, the
Evil Dead seems to slightly deviate from the original screenplay,
making it difficult to watch without comparing it to the original
masterpiece. Mise-en-scene is bland, the props are lame, especially the
necronomicon, and the cinematography is lacking if you consider Raimi's
experimentation in the original. Overall, this film has no character,
no soul, and no dark humor.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this movie and I'm just sitting here wondering
how and why this movie even got made... It is probably one of the worst
horror movies I've ever had the misfortune to watch. It honestly has no
coherent plot except what it ripped from the original (which I don't
understand who decided that movie needed a remake because it's an
amazing classic). The characters in this movie are some of the
stupidest I've ever seen. Honestly, all of them deserved to die. So
when you find a book that's bound in human flesh your FIRST instinct is
to read from said book? Oh your sister is possessed by a demon and is
basically infecting everyone with it but let's not kill her because she
starts singing a song from your childhood? You want to go down in the
basement with her even though she's killed practically everyone? I
didn't root for any of these characters. Whenever the possessed people
would talk I found myself just laughing because it was so forced. It's
like they were trying to be scary and intimidating but it just came off
like characters from Scary Movie. The actors in this movie have the
intelligence of a bag of rocks and the acting range of Kristen Stewart. 

This movie is also torture porn at it's finest. Why do directors think
this gruesome violence makes for good film making? I mean this bitch
gets raped by a tree. What..? Then she starts infecting everyone like
an STD or something, even forcing one girl to make out with her after
she's split her tongue in half with a box cutter. It's basically blood
on top of blood mixed in with other bodily fluids. At one point a girl
gets her arm pinned under a car while some demon is crawling towards
her. So she rips her arm out from under the car and is able to get up
and pick up a chainsaw to kill the demon. No shock? She didn't pass out
from unimaginable pain that would have caused? I'm also glad that a
human arm can be ripped off like it's made of jelly and it has no
ligaments, tendons, or bone. Hooray for realism! I understand horror
movies are not about realism but come on, you can do better than that.
I DVRed this movie and actually found myself checking to see if it was
almost over. It's so bad, don't waste your time. Glad I didn't see this
movie in the theater. Hollywood, please, for the love of all that is
holy, STOP DOING REMAKES.
<|_=00=_|>
Let be The Evil Dead (1981) be in my top 5 list of best horrors ever.
So I was waiting until the evil came out to finally see another failing
remake I thought. But have heard only positive things about the remake
I had my doubts. At last, after a lot of stupid remakes this one kicks
you straight in the face. In fact, it's based on the original one.
Bruce Campbell and Sam Raimi were involved in making this flick and
Fede Alvarez (the director) did a great job for his first full feature.

Let me first of all say this. If you can't stand extreme gory horrors
than stay away from this flick. It contains shock gore just for the
gore. If you thought this was going to be a supernatural ride then
forget it. This is really one for the gorehounds. 

Does it look like the original Evil Dead. Of course not. Back then a
few effects were done with stop motion. Here we luckily have the real
effects and okay, here and there some CGI which I didn't mind at all.
But to go back on the original. Yes, it do has the chainsaw, yes it do
has the slapping door, yes it do has the evil faces from back then and
yes we do have the woods attacking a girl, but not raping her like in
the original. 

Was it scary? It never was scary at one moment but still, you will
watch it with your mouth open. From the opening sequence you are
immediately into the Evil Dead ride. Why I do give kudos to the
director is that he made the movie he wanted to make but to please the
old school fans he added references to the original.

The acting of course had to be good too and luckily it was. But did
they do jokes like in the original. Not really, that was left out here,
admit it, we are 30 years later!

Finally, I'm happy to see that they didn't give a sh*t towards the
ratings. They made Evil Dead as they wanted to make it, it's full of
red stuff. Not done like the new horrors with digital animation. This
is old school, this is great, for me a must see for the buffs walking
this earth. Finally horror is back with some evil dead to show you....

Gore 4/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 4/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 0/5
<|_=00=_|>
SHAME RAIMI SHAME!! Sam, why would you risk your outstanding legacy by
attaching yourself (loosely), to this utter shemozzle?!? Clearly you
were offered a few bucks to help promote this film and give it some
credibility, but is money worth more than credibility? Reputation?
Respect?!?! I could say the same about Bruce Campbell, but he has never
been more than a B-actor, (though still totally awesome), and thus I
understand his desire to make a quick buck, but Sam....you have no
excuse.

As for the film, well it is gory and boring. That pretty much sums it
up. Poor-quality gore by the truckload. No tension. No story worth
noting. No scares. No charm. No Ash.

NO ASH!!!! Except for a tacked on cameo after the credits, the lack of
Ash makes this film even more execrable than it already is.

Plot-holes galore. Contrived plot twists. Obvious ending. Terrible
acting. Woeful characters. Lack of depth.

Just an awful film.

Sam.............what have you done?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very easy to summarize : If you're an Evil Dead fan who
loved the previous parts (and part 1 especially) : avoid this like the
plague. If you've never seen any of the other Evil Dead flicks : you're
in for an average horror movie with bad acting, poor dialogue and a
thin storyline filled with loopholes.

Fede Alvarez makes his debut here, directing the granddaddy of horror
and failing miserably. He has no connection whatsoever to the
franchise, despite claiming to love it, and it shows when he turn the
sadistic Kandarian demons into a mix of the "Exorcist" and a second
rate "The Ring" child. Not once will you quiver in your boots, not once
will you be grossed out, not once will you be on the edge of your
seat,... (you get the point)

While the original grabbed you by the throat and didn't let go until
the very end, this one will merely spit gore at you every minute and
expect you to care.

During my viewing, several people left the theater, disappointed and
angry over what this franchise has become...a cash cow for Raimi and
Campbell.

The worst part is that enough people were suckered into believing that
this was going to be true to the original, (Raimi swore, Bruce
testified, the trailers lied,...and in the end we were left with
something any deadite would spit upon) so we all went to see it, it
made enough cash to warrant a sequel.

With the same Director, the same producers, probably the same
actress...

Sam Raimi, Bruce Campbell : After this you have ZERO credibility left
with the legions of Evil Dead fans of old, try to pick someone else's
pockets next time.
