
I don't know why, but I seriously can't help but laugh at the Harold
and Kumar movies. They're so over the top and silly that you can't help
but laugh. The first adventure we went on with them, they just had the
munchies and needed some White Castle. The second adventure was to get
the loves of their lives back and end up going to Guantanamo Bay. Now,
we get to celebrate the joyful holiday of Christmas with them. I admit
that when I saw the trailer for this one, it didn't make me laugh too
much. I wasn't sure if this was going to have the same kick as the
previous films had, but A Very Harold and Kumar Christmas not only
delivered in the laughs but was actually a very good movie that in it's
own crude way was a touching story about how friends can grow apart but
reunite by the weirdest situations.

Harold is now a successful businessman who works at a popular company
while Kumar is still living the life of a stoner handling a bad break
up with Vanessa. At Maria's Christmas party, Harold meets Maria's
father. He explains to Harold that he never had a perfect Christmas and
he is counting on Harold to make this one the best for his daughter,
Harold's wife Maria. Maria's father also brings to Harold's house the
perfect Christmas tree. When a package addressed to Harold arrives at
Kumar's apartment, he decides to deliver it to Harold. The package
turns out to be a large marijuana joint that Kumar cannot resist
smoking. Since Harold has gotten married and does not get high anymore,
he knocks the lit joint out of Kumar's hands and it lands in the tree
and causing a fire. So now Harold and Kumar are on a new adventure to
get the tree back before the family returns.

I know that the situations were out of control. We have some dark jokes
with a child taking every extreme drug known to man, we have Neil
Patrick Harris on the verge of raping a woman. I know I should have
been disturbed technically, but why not just have a good time and
remind yourself that this is just a movie? I thought Neil Patrick
Harris was just too funny as usual when the boys ask him where he's
been and that he got shot and branded a hooker, he replies with "can
you be more specific?", I almost died laughing. I loved the creepy
waffle making robot that Kumar had, how it actually loved Kumar and
saved his life. But the moment that really got to me was seeing the kid
who was on every crazy drug running around on the ceiling, it was so
out there that I just had to laugh.

Like I said, there are some very extreme jokes that a lot of people
will take offense too easily. There is a moment where Neil Patrick
Harris is talking about Heaven and I know that if you have strong
religious beliefs, you're not going to like that scene. Though I don'
know why then you are seeing a Harold and Kumar movie since they're not
listed in the tactful department. But what I really liked about this
story is that it showed their softer side, Harold is growing up and
Kumar wants to stay the same as a stoner who is just cruising through
life, we all have friends like that and it's hard to keep in touch when
you're on different paths. I loved seeing them remember what's
important, that it's OK to let go a little bit or that it's OK to grow
up. I would recommend this for the fans, it's a great follow up to our
favorite stoners. If you're looking for a good laugh, I think you're in
for a treat, Harold and Kumar do not disappoint.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked the first two Harold & Kumar movies then you will likely
like this one. If you have never seen a Harold & Kumar movie they are
implausible story line, very irreverent, even crass, comedies that
always break taboos.

This movie's story line is again unlikely and at times totally
ridiculous, it's a total cut up comedy. You get the sense that the
actors were having fun while they were filming. I laughed (and moaned)
throughout the entire movie which I think is kind of the benchmark for
this genre.

A lot of the humor uses or pokes fun at the 3D effects so see it in 3D
if you can, it's a real treat, the effects are great. There was enough
pot smoke and coke blown in you face that you could almost get high.
<|_=00=_|>
I think part of the reason the first movie worked so well is because
going to White Castle is, relatively, a very simple, ordinary trip. But
when it's Harold (John Cho) and Kumar (Kal Penn) it becomes a very wild
adventure. I didn't enjoy the second one as much because escaping from
Guantanamo Bay wouldn't be an easy task for anybody. For this third
movie, Harold and Kumar are back to turn a routine errand into a
hair-raising, hazardous experience. Harold has to decorate a Christmas
tree.

But when Kumar comes over and accidentally burns down the tree, they
then have to find a new one, steal it from a drug-lord gangster thug,
try to not rape his daughter, crash a musical production of The
Nutcracker, and limit the number of people they shoot and drug (to only
Santa Claus and a baby).

The 3D is of course a gimmick. They know that; we know that. It
involves joints coming out of the screen and eggs, blood, and guts. It
is as juvenile and pointless as you can get. But that is the point.

The jokes are of course offensive. But, again, that's the point. It
makes it okay when the out-and-proud Neil Patrick Harris makes gay
jokes, or when Cho and Penn make racial jokes.

I enjoyed the journey that they take in "A Very Harold & Kumar 3D
Christmas". Every time the baby found a new drug to imbibe, or Kumar
smoked another joint, I laughed. It's the type of humour that has made
the franchise so successful.
<|_=00=_|>
Morally wrong on soo many levels and unnecessarily filmed in 3D but
that somehow managed to work pretty well for the most part but this
film is so much fun and hysterically funny that you will have a blast.
It's great to see all of these lively and wacky characters come back to
the big screen that it should be a every year tradition because their
company never gets old and it will have to be one of the best stoner
comedies ever as well as Christmas comedy ever next to Christmas
Vacation. The thing I like about these movies are that the jokes are
relevant, ballsy and unapologetic kind of like Family Guy and they are
to me always consistent with making me laugh because of the
outrageousness that I just can't get enough of this series, they are on
a roll! Overall this is a treat for only fans of the series because if
you were offended by them before this one won't change your mind, you
will love it or you will hate it, I for one loved it!!!! Bring on more
Harold & Kumar!!! Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
A Very Harold & Kumar 3D Christmas is not going to surprise anyone. It
follows the same successful formula and chemistry between John Cho and
Kal Penn as the first two. The film also is rude, inappropriate and has
questionable taste just like the first two. So while the basic concept
is the same, it has been plugged into a Christmas setting making fun of
the holiday and managing to shoot Santa Claus in the face in the
process. Damn it's funny! I'm not big on buddy comedies but behind
closed doors I secretly love Harold & Kumar. White Castle was funny,
Guantanamo Bay was even funnier taking on the issue of race and
national security, and 3D Christmas is poking fun at religion and
holidays. Because many may be afraid of being ridiculed for touching
sacred subjects and therefore don't, Harold & Kumar movies repeatedly
take on the challenge and find something original to laugh about. Sure
making a baby high, John having his penis stuck to a metal frozen pole,
and poking fun at the Catholic sex scandals may be inappropriate to
some, but everything's fair in comedy and what the filmmakers have done
will make you laugh over and over. So while much of the film may be
ridiculously over the top, it all works. And while we don't see enough
of Bobby Lee in the film who seems to be able to make you laugh without
doing much, we do get Neil Patrick Harris playing himself as a closeted
heterosexual. That scene is not just really funny throughout, but it
steals the show. His scene is nothing short of a "must see" moment that
is destined to be classic.
<|_=00=_|>
I have an affection for raunchy comedies and I love 3D so this marriage
in "A Very Harold & Kumar 3D Christmas" definitely filled voids in
places where most movies have been lacking as of late.

First and foremost, the movie was entertaining throughout with no dull
moments. All the characters were great and Neil Patrick Harris was
hysterical. Although some might think this film could be considered
lowbrow, it really isn't because it was well written and the situations
(as absurd as they are) work to even satisfy an intelligent viewer with
a good time.

The 3D experience was better in this movie than most I've seen in
years. It was consistent throughout, no eyestrain, very clean, and had
some nice out-of-screen effects that paired well with the comedy.

As morally and politically incorrect this movie is; it ultimately does
have a good message with a lot of heart and actually put me into the
Holiday spirit! I know; I can't even believe I just stated that but
sadly it's true. I'm definitely jaded, but then again aren't we all by
now? Definitely a must see in 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
What started as a simple stoner trip comedy, becomes something that
pushes the limit with every installment. And that is the case with this
3rd one, most of the humor comes from that is so messed up that it's
funny...Well for some viewers at least although it can offend the
others. While some movies the 3D is not worth it, this is one of those
movie that has to be seen in 3D if your going to watch it. And for the
most part the 3D is worth it and it actually plays a crucial part in
the movie since the plot brings out and gives 3D scenarios. If you
don't see it in 3D it can be a bit confusing cause you might not get
some of the jokes. Anyways if you liked stoner comedies and comedies
that pushes the limits this movie might be worth checking out. The
movie had one special ingredient that made this movie better than the
second one and that is the simple but fun aspect. Although Harold and
Kumar is not in college anymore and is now full adults, I wouldn't mind
another sequel.

7.3/10
<|_=00=_|>
To put it simply, Harold and Kumar was incredibly funny. The movie is
set six years after they escape from G bay (you must ignore the fact
they haven't aged). For me to say this was just another Harold and
Kumar movie would be unfair. I loved the first one. Simple premise with
many jokes and characters along the way. Half of what made it funny was
the fact Roldy and Kumar were going through this hell just to have some
fast food. Escape from G bay had funny moments but them escaping a
maximum security prison holding war criminals to reach America and
regain their innocence? It was a little much. Don't get me wrong I
still liked it but it felt like that magic was gone with the simplicity
of the first. So when I saw the third was about to come out and it was
a "christmas special" I felt hopeful for a good one but not confident. 

The third instalment had that simplicity again. Yes, there was new
characters and the 3D was new but they all worked so perfectly. Yes
certain things were dumb and even weird like the fake baby Jesus
winking at me or a coked up baby running around on the ceiling but its
that kind of movie! They were going through hell once again to simply
find a Christmas tree. The new characters were very funny and the old
jokes and characters were seen and told in a new way (unlike Hangover
2). Another new character was the use of 3D in this instalment. It was
incredible, and not just the smoke and coke flying at me but characters
acknowledging it and poking fun. Bottom line is its OK to be
apprehensive because the second one was just alright and a comedy like
this in 3D could be thought of as being corny and trying to hard but
they pulled it off perfectly. Harold and Kumar is dumb fun and for what
it is this is a great comedy. Just make sure you catch it in 3D! Read
my other reviews at rollginreviews.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
It seems like just earlier this week was Halloween... oh, wait a tic,
it WAS Halloween. 

The beginning of November is an unusually early time fir a Christmas
movie to come out, but then again, it's not like there hasn't ever been
a Christmas movie that's been released at the beginning of November.
This year, it's Harold and Kumar who have taken the honour of releasing
a Christmas movie near the beginning of the year, and for such a
premature Christmas film, surprisingly it turned out to be great!

A Harold and Kumar 3D Christmas is more fun than it has he right to be.
For one, you can tell by the trailer it promises fun to be had, and it
lives up to the promise. The film in tone, is like a mix of the first
two movies. It has the ridiculousness of the second movie mixed with
the style of the first. In addition, throw in NPH, Amir from
CollegeHumor and characters we've seen before, and you have yourself
what may be the most fun film of the series.

The film takes place 6 years after the first. A you may expect, hard
working Harold is successful, has the beautiful Maria as his wife, and
life couldn't be any better for him. Meanwhile Kumar is a big fat and
lazy frack-up. He sits at home and smokes pot all day, and has blown
his chance at true love. 

Harold has invited his father in law (played by Danny Trejo!), who
inadvertly brings his whole family to the household. The prejudiced in
law replaces the faux tree with a naturally grown Christmas tree. When
Kumar receives a package for Harold, he takes it over, where they
reunite and discover, it's a mega joint. Kumar tries to burn it up, but
they inadvertly burn the tree... Resulting in the two going on another
zany adventure, this time to replace the tree!!!

First off, you know what to expect, from a Harold and Kumar movie,
however that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Because the film is
consistently funny throughout and manages to keep you laughing until
the final frame. The jokes are raunchier than ever! There's babies
taking drugs, Russian mafia jokes, dark humour, you name it. There
isn't a thing this film doesn't have.

The star power helps too- while they may be getting a bit old (Cho is
40, and damn he looks so young, how do I look that handsome at 40), Cho
and Penn deliver the usual great performances, but I must note, holy
crap, Cho really does prove himself as the talented actor he is here.
Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed Penn too, but Cho was easily the
attraction for me. Trejo,well, what's not to love about him? Excellent
actor and it shows, Patton Oswalt is hilarious as expected and Amir
from CollegeHumor is a great actor here as well. And Neil Patrick
Harris... Well, who can deny his brilliance?

The 3D, on the other hand, is what prevents me from giving it a full
mark. As you may have seen in the previews, it does abuse the gimmick
greatly, but otherwise you really shouldn't waste your money. The
screen gets very blurry during the more motion-y shots, and other than
the flying out, it doesn't really come as good use.

Otherwise, the new Harold and Kumar film is very enjoyable. And
surprisingly very heartfelt too, as it has a great message about
friendship. It will indeed snap you into the Christmas spirit and make
you feel happy indeed. And while it may not be the best of the series,
nonetheless it is indeed very enjoyable

OVERALL: 8/10

THE GOOD: This latest entry in the series proves to be insanely fun
entry with everything you could expect in a H&K movie, and more.

THE BAD: The 3D. Not like that's anything new,
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I loved the first movie. It was a very nice idea with some
good laughs. Then there was the second movie, which I think lacked for
laughs a lot compared to the first. And then this! All I can say is,
apart from a baby getting high with the munchies, and a penis stuck to
a frozen pipe, this was the worst of the three movies. I hate to say
it, but if you liked the first two and think this will be the same,
don't get your hopes up. It's terrible. And WTF is up with the 3D? This
ruined it for me hugely, because there are good 3D movies, and then
there are really cheesy diliberate 3D 'pokes' at the screen to make you
go, 'Awesome!'. Once I had saw the trailer I thought that it was a
family movie, that's how low this third sequel has dropped since the
first two. It's an 18A? It should be a 12A! Yeah there's drugs and some
nudity in it but, really? This isn't something for fans of the first
two movies. I still don't know how this movie has got a 7.2 Rating. It
should be a 3.4 rating. Overall, if you have seen the first two movies,
I don't recommend this one. Unless you want to because you might as
well see this as you have seen the first two. If you have'nt, then you
won't be as disappointed as I am. I hope that they pick it up again and
bring a much better fourth part to these movies. And if it turns out
like this one, I will give up with Harold & Kumar.
