
THIS REVIEW IS SPOILER FREE: READ ON FOR MY REVIEW ON SCREAM 4 (2011) I
was pleasantly surprised. This was a great movie, especially for fans
of the original. It makes up for the awfulness of Scream 3, and
includes many very talented new actors and actresses. I was very
surprised to walk into the screening theater and see a fantastic horror
film. As soon as the Dimension logo appeared on screen, my heart began
to race. The opening scene was brutal and hilarious, and it was great
to see all of the original characters back on the screen again. I found
the Wes Craven cameo, and was laughing as I spotted it out. This movie
was great to watch, even though there were some things that needed to
be fixed. Very minor problems though. There were some parts in the
dialogue that seemed unrealistic (Ehren Kruger re-writes), but it
wasn't a huge deal. Also, the ending was kinda long, but it was also
very suspenseful. I would most definitely recommend this to a friend in
search of a good horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I literally just came back from a midnight screening of this and I had
an amazing time. Craven's managed to reclaim the franchise with a
worthy instalment that's a fantastic sequel as well as a quality
slasher film in its own right. Honestly speaking, there aren't too many
surprises to be had in Scream 4. No matter how mordantly self-aware the
movies are (and believe me, Scream 4 gets a little tediously indulgent
in its postmodern cleverness), there's an inevitable predictability to
some of the proceedings but anybody who's a genre-savvy horror fan will
appreciate how brilliantly everything is executed. The opening
sequences, for example, are one of the best parts of the movie and are
a perfect reintroduction to the franchise and while the bulk of the
story lags a little, it's redeemed by the ballsy ending.

The acting is great with the core trio (Campbell, Arquette and Cox)
delivering their usual, strong performances and the rest of the cast,
however limited their respective roles, are just as entertaining. All
you TV buffs there will get a kick out of seeing actors from Heroes,
Veronica Mars, True Blood, Mad Men and Community share the silver
screen and camp it up. More importantly, the film is hilarious and just
a whole lot of ridiculous fun. Craven isn't afraid to take the story to
some beautifully insane places and the ending was, to me, perfect. 

All in all, it's a great, irreverent slice of horror that's hilarious
and true to the franchise. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently saw the movie Scream 4. I really liked it. Coming in to the
movie, I was like "Well, how many sequels have been any good?" But I
really liked this movie. The movie had great suspense with intense
twists and turns. This movie will take you through all kinds of
emotions. You'll laugh. You'll cringe. You'll jump out of your seat.
Everything. There is one scene in particular that will probably give
you nightmares for a while. The cast was awesome. A great blend of
young future stars and seasoned veterans. Kudos to Wes Craven and
everybody involved with this movie for doing such a good job. I really
liked this movie and I think that you'll like it too. I highly
recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Scream 4 should have been terrible - after all, Scream 2 was only "ok"
and Scream 3 was a disaster. But Scream 4 is a very good movie, both as
part of the franchise, but also as a stand alone.

It is far more self-referential than you would expect. Barely a scene
passes without the characters referencing movie conventions. But it
does so in what I think is an intelligent way. And most importantly
(for our enjoyment) Scream 4 makes fun of itself before we can get
there. Just when you start to roll your eyes, they roll their eyes.

But it also stands as a good slasher flick - perhaps the LEAST
slasher-y of the lot so far (it can't be everything after all) but
there are plenty of jump-in-your-seat moments.

The combination of old generation cast and new generation is actually
seamless, again lots of self-referencing about that too.

The highlights are too many to name - but the opening of the movie will
have you laughing far harder than you'd have expected to.

Overall, Scream 4 is excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked the first 3 movies you will like this one too. It has the
same feel as the other Scream movies, but i don't want to spoil any
story so i won't say anything about that.

I am a fan of the scream movies but not a HUGE fan that is why i would
rate it an 8. Story wise (like every horror movie) it could sometimes
be a bit better, but I found this story better then the typical horror
movie. The kills were more realistic and the gore levels were
appropriate in the scenes in my opinion.

If your a fan of horror movies i would really recommend it though. And
if your a fan of Scream movies go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back home from a midnight screening. I was very excited to
see this film, and I am now at home eagerly waiting to go and see it
again as well as really hoping this is the beginning of a new trilogy.

First, nothing is overdone in the film. Second, nothing is contrived.
Third, the script and plot is very inventive, has humility, yet plenty
of scares. During the film, several scenes are reminiscent of scenes
from the original trilogy.

The film clocks in at almost 2 hours, which is long for a horror film.
But, the reason it is this long is because there is a lot of plot
development and setting the stage for the final act. You will enjoy
this film!
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1996, the first Wes Craven movie from the Scream franchise
ended, or should i say, began a whole new generation of horror
movies.The suspense became bigger than before, and the hackneyed
stories of torture, abandoned roads and stokers came to a relative
end.The new-age horror began back then-a nice mix of humor, suspense,
jump-scenes, blood and gore..and of course, the merge of some typical
killer profiles in one.The result-Ghostface.So many movies have been
made as a parody of the notorious killer and some of them have
succeeded with it.But only one movie will come in mind when we speak of
Ghostface- the Scream franchise.And this one sticks to everything we
wanted.

Saying that, i must admit i was very annoyed at the beginning of the
movie, mainly because of the brainless chicks, with a "135" IQ, who got
killed so stupidly.Maybe it should have been 13,5, who knows.But at the
end, when i finally managed to control my anger, i come to realize,
that was a satire, and a needed one.It comes to show that the series
are still a lot of fun throughout and that's what matters.

And speaking of fun, i must say that i was laughing in tears in some
moments, and i was at the edge of my seat at others.This is, for me,
the most important part of the movie, along with the twists, of
course.Not many movies do that, and i surely don't remember the last
one i saw it do that.

Wes Craven did a great job working on his child, collaborating
alongside Kevin Williamson, a very talented screenwriter, who shows why
he's on board the movie.He did a great job making a very difficult
story, considering the fact, that this is the four Scream installment.

The movie was very creative as a new-age collaboration between young
newcomers, some TV stars, like Hayden Panettiere (whom you probably
haven't heard of, if you're not a TV geek, although it's hard to
believe, or Emma Roberts, most famous as Julia Robert's daughter for
now, although she is talented.) and the old dogs in the sight of David
Arquette, Courtney Cox and Neve Campbell.So, this mix-up was cool to
see.

There weren't some off the chart performances, if i have to choose, i
would say that David Arquette and Emma Roberts were the
highlight-actors of the movie.There were some obviously comedic
introductions, such as Adrien Brody and Anthony Anderson, playing two
of the cops in the movie.

What surprised me the most, was the sheer entertainment of the script,
the twists and the movie connections, that were added.I can't think of
any other movie, i've seen, that has so much references to other movies
or people.They began referencing to the Saw franchise, The Hills Have
Eyes, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Psycho, Friday the 13-th, A
Nightmare on Elm Street and so many others, including references of
many of Wes Craven's previous works and actors such as Bruce Willis.But
the movies were so many, and many, i couldn't remember them all.Let's
say, that there was about 90% of the horror classics in the last 50-60
years or so added as a build-up quiz game to some of the murders.They
were that many.Even the weapons those killers used, were added as
trivia Q&A's.

So the sheer entertainment, the laughs and scares and twists(which are
very incredible, but convincing and untraceable for audiences until the
very end, when they tell you about them, are great).The acting of some
of the characters was great as well, and i was pleased.

All those things being said, i think, that, as a fourth installment,
this movie is sheer entertaining brilliancy, and a history in the
making as well.I won't be surprised, if there is another sequel being
planed in the future, because the movie was great, as long as it
doesn't make you a little angry at the very beginning, in the few
opening scenes.Then, you should be alright.

So a fun, memorable ride and the Scream franchise is at it's
entertaining best, alongside the first.You will laugh and you will
scream but eventually, you'll definitely like it.

My note 7.5/10 for the best horror movie in the last couple of years
and the best Scream since the first.A great entertainer! 

P.S.Go see it with as many friends as possible-it will be fun as hell!
<|_=00=_|>
*No Spoilers*

Sidney, Dewey, and Gale are back together yet again for another fight
with Ghostface. The survivors of the Woodsburrow murders are back, but
this time they may not all make it. The Scream movies have been
revamped, and this fresh take brings a loaded young cast together for
more blood and more gore. Wes Craven brilliantly rewrites the rules on
the horror genre yet again, and makes you doubt all you thought you
knew about scary movies. Goosebumps and chills will overcome you as you
attempt to unravel the identity of the Ghostface killer. But "he
unexpected is the new cliché'", so don't try to analyze it, just sit
back and enjoy the ride. There are twists, there are turns, and only
one things is certain: you better be ready to scream.
<|_=00=_|>
Never before have I seen a horror franchise spawn 4 movies and still be
taken seriously, usually when a franchise follows this path it means
that the producers are making annual cash-ins trying to milk the
franchise as much as possible while it is still popular and relevant
(see Saw, Final Destination), well for Scream 4 (or Scre4m)that's not
the case, this movie makes an effort to continue a saga which was put
to sleep for more than a decade, without it being a re-imagining,
re-make or re-boot like the hideous Rob Zombie attempt at a Halloween
remake(although the movie makes fun of this in a brilliant way). Scream
4 is more than that, while a sequel, it feels like a complete new
beginning, it carried the bad stigma that the failed Scream 3 left
behind, yet it proved that the series is still relevant, and with the
adequate script it takes off on a delightful new killing spree.

10 years have passed since Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) last
encountered the Ghostface killer, she has moved on with her life and
now dedicates to writing her most intimate memoirs and book touring the
country with her publicist, making her last stop at her hometown of
Woodsboro, the place where it all started. Gale Weathers (Courteney
Cox) and Dewey Riley (David Arquette) are living their peaceful lives
in that town, the same as Jill Roberts (Emma Roberts) Kirby Reed
(Hayden Panettiere) and their friends, which, begin being stalked by a
new masked killer.

When at it's best, Scream 4 manages to make you laugh hysterically but
at the same time, in the same scene, give you heart-stopping scares,
other reviewers think that the only characters you care about are the
main threesome (Sidney, Gale and Dewey) but in my opinion, it is
precisely the "new rules" factor that make you doubt whether they'll
make it or not, meanwhile, you start caring about the other characters
(specially Kirby Reed, played by "Heroes" cheerleader Hayden
Panettiere) who shares her love for horror films with an unusual crush.

While some of the decisions made by characters really fall into the
"dumb-blonde-who-goes-upstairs" category, it is precisely the killer
that takes credit for this decision making, since you don't know where
he'll pop up next, thus making going outside an even scarier choice.

Scream 4 is really better thought out than it's predecessor, there's no
doubt about that, this time, the gore is even more gruesome, the body
count is larger and the truth is that you'll never guess who the killer
is, it really could be anyone, and director Wes Craven really makes
this a possibility.

In the end, Scream 4 perfectly combines comedy, horror, action and
drama to create a new formula, while not a perfect movie, it's
shortcomings become less important by one aspect, it really doesn't
take itself too seriously but at the same time it makes a homage of the
saga and utilizes itself as a tool to further immortalize the Ghostface
killer as one of the most popular icons in the horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>
To the younger generations of movie reviewers: Take the stick out of
your ass before watching this movie! Thank you.

Scream is Wes Craven territory. It's comedy-horror, it's suppose to be
twisted fun and that's what this is. Unlike the 3rd film, this didn't
try to insult our intelligence with over-the-top gags and an overly
serious ending. This film stayed very true to the first two films and
yet, at the same time, did not feel like just another sequel. Having
the ten years between really made this a one of a kind, intimate
experience with these three unforgettable characters. The fear for
their lives was as real as the first time we met Sidney, Gale and
Dewey.

The entire films was and stayed tongue in cheek and for a sequel, it
was just as refreshing as the original.

Hands down to directors like Sam Raimi, Robert Rodriquez and Wes
Craven, for making horror movies fun!
