
Wow this is one of those movies that I am completely baffled about the
low ranking on here. I agree with some of the critiques that the sound
mixing could have been better but overall the film was gorgeous,
overall well acted and very understandable for such a difficult play.

Someone mentioned poor special effects...I thought they were wonderful.
Clearly the big money goes to plenty of trite blockbusters leaving
little for pieces of art and beauty such as this. But what they lacked
in money they made up for in creativity....I absolutely loved the
rendition of the spirit Ariel. There was plenty of gorgeous scenery
both real and mixed with CGI.

Julie Taymor never disappoints me and this is no exception!
<|_=00=_|>
William Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST is probably his last play, written in
1610-11, and as such it has some of the more eloquent passages of
soliloquies of any of his works. In the original version the story is
set on a remote island, 'where Prospero, the exiled Duke of Milan,
plots to restore his daughter Miranda to her rightful place, using
illusion and skillful manipulation. The eponymous tempest brings to the
island Prospero's usurping brother Antonio and the complicit Alonso,
King of Naples. There, his machinations bring about the revelation of
Antonio's low nature, the redemption of Alonso, and the marriage of
Miranda to Alonso's son, Ferdinand.' Enter Julie Taymor and the
imaginative play becomes even more so with her deft re-writing and
direction and use of visual effects. In Taymor's versions 'the main
character is now a woman named Prospera. Going back to the 16th or 17th
century, women practicing the magical arts of alchemy were often
convicted of witchcraft. In Taymor's version, Prospera is usurped by
her brother and sent off with her four-year daughter on a ship. She
ends up on an island; it's a tabula rasa: no society, so the mother
figure becomes a father figure to Miranda. This leads to the power
struggle and balance between Caliban and Prospera; a struggle not about
brawn, but about intellect.' 

Taymor and Shakespeare together make the important character of Ariel,
Prospera's obedient sprite, a thing of magic: Ben Wishaw darts and
floats and flies about apparently in the buff in a most ingenious
fashion, delivering his lines in perfect Shakespearean cadence (his
'Full fathom five thy father lies... ' is exquisite). The
transformation of Prospero to Prospera is magical with Helen Mirren
once again proving that she is an incomparably fine actress (one great
moment is her delivery of the lines 'Our revels now are ended. These
our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits and are melted into
air, into thin air: And, like the baseless fabric of this vision, The
cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the
great globe itself, Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve And, like
this insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind. We are such
stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a
sleep.') 

THE TEMPEST is an odd assortment of magic, treachery, young love, silly
comedy, and odd goings on, but filled with a cast such as Taymor has
selected it jumps alive with passion and glee. Caliban is Djimon
Hounsou, Miranda is Felicity Jones, The King of Naples is David
Strathairn and his son Ferdinand is young Reeve Carney, Prospera's
brother Antonio is Chris Cooper and his sidekick Sebastian is Alan
Cumming, and the two actors assigned to the buffoon roles are Albert
Molina and Russell brand. Gonzalo is Tim Conti. This tightened Tempest
works well though one wonders how much of the opening scenes' shipwreck
(due to Prospera's calling upon the tempest) adds to the overall story.
Yet in Taymor's vision it all comes together beautifully. The sung
portions of the play and the musical sore in general are from the
intelligent pen of Elliot Goldenthal. Recommended! 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
In casting Helen Mirren as Prospera, director Julie Taymor adds an
interesting spin to this Shakespeare adaptation.

Also CGI effects help make more sense of the story.

On the downside, film versions of the bard's plays rarely work
perfectly (with the honourable exception of Baz Luhrmann's Romeo +
Juliet) and unless you know the play already, the action here is pretty
hard to follow. Also, it's a bit strange seeing comic genius Alan
Cumming in a straight role.

Ultimately though, the main joy of the movie is Dame Helen. She does
bitterness superbly. I loved the scene when Miranda first meets
Ferdinand - Mirren's ironic commentary added a whole new dimension to
the play for me.

I also loved Tony Conti as the aged senator Gonzalo. His performance is
so masterful it puts his character at the forefront of the story for
once - no bad thing.

Overall I think Shakespeare fans will really enjoy this film. Other
people may be left a little bored and bewildered.
<|_=00=_|>
The Tempest shows a filmmaker just itching to let loose her turbulent,
big-splash-of-a-canvas vision of Shakespeare onto the screen, and the
itch, for better or worse, is scratched sufficiently. This is a work
that takes the delightfully and eerily dark take on the Bard that
Taymor had before with Titus and suffuses it with the
computer-generated surreal landscape of Across the Universe. Whether
you can really dig into Taymor's films or not, to varying degrees for
some, at the least it's hard to ignore her artistic prowess, of pushing
the envelope of what might be acceptable or just what is "normal" and
stretching the boundaries until you wonder what boundaries are even for
in the first place - that is, you wonder so that people like Taymor or
Terry Gilliam can break them, f*** them about, and give audiences
something different with the acting and the mood of the piece while,
oddly enough, staying true to at least the original spirit of the
source material (Beatles, Frida Kahlo, the Bard).

This time her Tempest is almost nearing all over the place visually,
but luckily it's anchored on one of Shakespeare's most underrated works
; it's one of my personal favorites from him actually, a work drenched
in fantasy and ideas of late 16th century God's law and man in the high
and low areas of class, meaning those who have it (i.e. explorers) and
those that don't Djimon Hunsou's native character. The big change to
anyone who has read the play is that Prospero is now Prospera, played
with big emotions and big movements of poise and stamina by Helen
Mirren. Oh she's a force to be reckoned with, as a star and as a
character that she's playing, and she's a practitioner of alchemy. This
might already be subversive - in that time and era women like that were
branded witches right away, but here it's something that is not only
encouraged but flaunted - but then comes more 'colorful' though normal
elements of explorers, washed up on the shore, and part of the King's
army of sorts (Alfred Molina and Chris Cooper make up some of this
bunch).

There's also a love story thrown in the mix between the two youngest
members of the cast, actors whom, I'm sorry to say, I don't remember
their names as they are kind of forgettable due to the script and
Taymor's direction of them. I get the sense that among the rest of what
she has to work with this is either the thing she's least concerned
with, or she botched this part of the film. I didn't really buy any of
this young-love stuff, not the interactions or the dippy acting, or
even (to go back to the source if it's that) Shakespeare's dialog. This
and a few other odd moments, such as a few scenes with CGI (some of it,
though not all of it, with Ben Whishaw's spirit character Ariel who is
up there with the clouds and the smoke of air) do detract from the
quality of the rest of the film.

The rest of it, I should add, is a lot of fun, and extraordinary to
take in. Djimon Hunsou makes his Caliban a terrifying but oddly
sympathetic character, one who will do bad things and can- the scar on
his face says 'Don't mess with me, Whitey' pretty clearly, even if it's
said in old-school Bard speak- but has also been damaged over time.
There is some depth there that isn't with some of the other supporting
characters, as interesting as they are and acted as well as they are.
Among the lot that I've mentioned and who are really excellent in
scenes that just need plenty of good close-ups and not too much music,
Molina, Cooper and a magnetic David Straitharn take up really good
chunks of screen time.

The oddity here is Russell Brand. Appearing as himself, or what I can
figure is him"self" after playing a similar crazy rock-and-roll type in
Judd Apatow comedies, here he's kind of the Fool character, Trinculo,
and it was kind of delightfully bizarre to see him here doing his thing
with such gusto and humor. Maybe that was Taymor's intention, as with
Mirren as Prospera in a way, to give this work that is centuries old
and dealing with the aspect of Post-Colonial theory a modern uplift and
change up the nature of the characters without taking too much away
from their roots. But more to the point, one of the strengths of the
film and that Taymor connected with is that Prospera's an artist in her
own right, only with magic, and may be reckless with her 'art' but will
go to the lengths that she will do to her will. An extreme example, but
I have to wonder if what Taymor is doing here, as all over the place
and great and not-so-great as it is, in its broad strokes its a really
raw expression of her own art through this flawed ex-member of royalty.

Taymor's work is an "acquired taste" as the euphemism goes, another way
of saying "go in at your own risk". The wild takes on set-pieces like
the ship-crash, the trippy-hallucinogenic visions of characters, and
the eccentric acting turn the Tempest into a curious delight, but you
need to expect something like that. This is Shakespeare for the Modern
Museum of Art group, not for stuffy intellectuals looking for
Masterpiece theater. For its faults, some of them crucial, its alive
and throbbing and that's good to have in this Awards season.
<|_=00=_|>
Julie Taymor (Frida, Titus) sets her sights on the Bard's final
masterpiece, recasting Prospero as Prospera (Hellen Mirren) and letting
the magic and romance loose in this very different take on The Tempest.

First, what works? Hellen Mirren does, rather unsurprisingly, and the
art direction of photography are consistent with the vision of the
woman who gave us Titus back in 1999. Kudos as well to the
ever-watchable David Strathairn and Djimon Hounsou.

What annoys? Now we enter very subjective ground. This beautiful,
deceptively simple play is turned into an amped up to the max, loud and
frantic film. The electric guitar whines are painfully out of place,
and Russell Brand, never guilty of subtlety on a good day, will make
you claw your own eardrums out. It's almost as if Taymor had forgotten
we were right there with her cast, right behind the camera, instead of
sitting 50ft back in a packed theater.

This has proved an incredibly divisive film, and I feel split right
down the middle on it. I admire Titus, in my mind one of the best
Shakespeare adaptations in history, but whereas Taymor's turbocharged
visuals and loud, often trashy use of sound and effects served as a
perfect illustration for Shakesepare's bonkers gore-fest, it diminishes
the more mature, heartfelt qualities of this play. The Tempest is a
great playwright's swan song, the work of an aging, mature artist. Why
would you give us an overly loud, ADD-afflicted MTV version? 

Ultimately, this frustrating missed opportunity makes you wonder, did
Taymor have her Shakespeare mixed up all along. Rather than give us
"the stuff that dreams are made of", she serves us "a tale, told by an
idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing".
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it - Shakespeare's plays are wonderful. But they were
written in an age when the Bard wrote them for the stages available
then - like forums and village theaters. The scope and power of the
projected screen as well as the acts recorded to be played over and
over again in space and time - would have been a totally alien concept
to Shakespeare. Here the makers of the film - especially Julie Taymor -
deserves credit for having made this difficult transition with such
effective ease. The scenes come off pretty natural and very well acted.
Also the transformation of Propero into Prospera was intriguing when I
first heard about this movie. But it came off very convincing - almost
as if Shakespeare wrote it that way himself. I was just wondering why
Taymor chose to do this though! Helen Mirren was her superb best.
Djimon was excellent as Caliban. I saw him in the movie "The Island"
earlier and found he does deliver his best in challenging roles. All
other actors did their part very well. I would recommend this movie to
Shakespeare buffs. Don't expect too much from it as Shakespeare
certainly did not write action plays. But it was time well spent.
<|_=00=_|>
The Tempest is a wonderful but complicated play, and while I can
understand the reactions of those who disliked it, I thoroughly enjoyed
this one who I saw for the treasure that is Helen Mirren. It is not
perfect, there are times where the delivery was a little too garbled or
fast and Russell Brand gives a performance so lacking in subtlety that
he did seem out of place to me. However, Helen Mirren is as ever
magnificent as Prospera, with a commanding presence, intense delivery
and sense of character and an urging sense of bitterness. Felicity
Jones is an excellent Miranda, David Strathairn's Alonso is magnetic
and Dijimon Hounsou is a Caliban that is both terrifying and
sympathetic. Alfred Molina and Chris Cooper prove themselves to be
scene-stealers, Ben Whishaw is an effective Ariel who as a spirit looks
wonderful and Alan Cumming plays it straight and is good at it no
matter how strange it initially is. Julie Taymor's direction is
compelling and creative, especially in the character relationships, you
feel the spiritual connection between Ariel and Prospera, the sadness
of Caliban and Prospera's sorrowful weariness at the end and the idea
to have Caliban as Prospera's shadow self was convincing. The visuals
are spectacular, right from the palaces, towers, columns and the
scenery itself helped by well-above average effects and sweeping
cinematography. The dialogue is as poetic and witty as ever, and while
some may find the rock music jarring, while it is not my kind of music,
it did give some energetic flavour to the songs. All in all, not a
movie that everybody is going to like, but while not perfect I
thoroughly enjoyed it. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The Tempest is not the most riveting drama, the larger realization is
after all a certain weariness with it. This is given to us as a
magician who halfway through the story abandons his powers of illusion,
who after conjuring to him the characters and plotting the story of
revenge pauses to reflect on the emptiness of the endeavor. It's still
powerful then, because we are all Prosperos alone in our island with
the thoughts we conjure up to inhabit.

In Shakespeare's time, the inspiration for Prospero must have likely
come from the scandalous topic of John Dee, the communion with spirits
and visions through crystals certainly point at that as well as more
broadly the notion of a benign magic. Magic since well before Dee and
up to Crowley has tried its best to mask in so much hoopla what other
spiritual traditions make clear from the start: that man is an embodied
consciousness with the ability to direct that consciousness to vision.
Shakespeare no doubt understood this was exactly his own art, a rich
and complicated magic of conjured vision in peoples' minds.

So if this is to be powerful, you have to adopt a very intricate
stance. Show both the power of illusion as vision and, contradictory,
the emptiness of it, the fact it is underpinned by an illusory nature
of reality. Greenaway masterfully did this in his Prospero film by
having Prospero's creation of the play as vision, the vision lush and
wonderful, and yet at every turn shown to exist on a stage.

Taymor is too earnest to strike this stance, in fact judging by the
cinematic fabrics here she seems unsure of what direction to follow.
She is an earthy woman so intuitively builds on landscape, volcanic
rock under our feet. Pasolini could soar in this approach judging from
his mythic films, her approach is too usual and without awe. The magic
is also too ordinary. A few movie effects cobbled together in earnest
as something to woo simple souls like Trinculo. Compared to the novel
richness of Greenaway this feels like discarded Harry Potter work. And
the cinematic navigation is without any adventure, as if Taymor didn't
believe there was anything for her to discover outside the play, to
conjure up in the landscape itself by wandering to it, so she never
strays in visual reflection.

Mirren conveys the reflection as best she can, but that is all here,
too little.
<|_=00=_|>
Friends of mine have been amazed at how long I can talk about the short
comings of this film. Their reaction when I finish my diatribe has been
to say " I guess you really don't like it".

No, no I don't.

What happened to Julie Taymor the master of cinema who did Frida, Titus
and Across the Universe? Watching this film I was struck by the feeling
that it was made by someone completely unfamiliar with the medium. That
isn't the case, since she did the films I just mentioned.

I'm not sure exactly what happened, but something did. Some where along
the way she made a film that seems so technically inept as to not
really be viewable.

Having assembled a cast that on paper should have worked she's
proceeded to make a film where everyone seems to be alone on screen.
For me it was as if she had cut together performances from different
films.

Having changed the male lead to a woman she failed to change all of the
language and periodically you get lines of dialog that just play wrong.

There are frequent mismatched shots as objects move around, bottle tops
appear and disappear and characters seem to be taking readings from
different takes or set ups.

I shouldn't have been noticing all the mistakes, I should have been
surfing on the plot and the dialog, but Taymor never manages to create
any sort of magic. (And any magic is supplied by cheap visual effects.)
I don't know. I had such high hopes for the film, but nothing came
together. In a weird way the film is best summed up by Ben Whishaw's
Ariel who is required to play the part naked- however is forced to go
through the most ludicrous gyrations to cover up his privates (The
audience I saw this with was roaring with each uncomfortable twist).

2 out of 10 for the performances that work on their own terms- one just
wishes that they had been brought together to actually resemble a film.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie had potential, but it turned out rather awkward in this re-
telling. Very recognizable actors in every role, some of them tried
really hard to make it work, probably just poorly directed in that
respect? Odd music choices throughout. Plus, I don't think I've ever
seen worse screen manipulation or graphics. Some scenes look like they
were straight up "photoshopped". To be honest, I think Syfy channel
tries harder than this. Dialogue was a bit hacked up and hard to follow
(hard to hear even at times). I've read the play twice in original play
form (olde English), so I know what they are supposed to be saying,
that had nothing to do with it, just didn't work. Shakespeare would
roll in his grave if he saw this with his name on it methinks.
