
I've read all the books. I know what happens. This never ruins a film
for me.

I didn't want to see this film because the previous one was lacking
in... well... everything. But girlfriend wanted to see it. I went in
and was instantly surprised to see the demographic had widened past
12-16 year old girls who instantly swoon at any even remotely hot guy
so that was interesting. It's not relevant to how good the film was- it
just reaffirmed to me (and should to all of you) that hating a series
on principle or having preconceived notions of how bad something will
be is unfair on it.

Not in this case. It was still bad. BUT worth the money I payed to see
it because though it most definitely not intended to be entertaining in
the way I found it. It was full of melodramatic dialogue and bad acting
which, if you take ANY Drama classes at school- Which Robert DIDN'T-
you'll notice certain things about how people deliver lines. You notice
how they're SAYING lines they have memorised with unnatural and
stylised emphasis on the key words in the sentences without giving the
(cheesy) dialogue depth or realism. Quite simply, it was so terrible I
found myself resisting the urge to burst out laughing in a room full of
fans who were probably misinterpreting the melodrama as "Good,
emotional drama." No. This film is ridiculous.

As it goes further on it gets less tightly stitched together and I had
to become reliant on my knowledge of the books to fill in and pick up
the slight gaps in dialogue and plot. They would say things that are
based on something that didn't happen on screen (probably deleted scene
for time) or their dialogue would just be terrible unrealistic lines
that are work as standalone ones for a trailer but in conversation it
seems like they're jumping slightly just to get to say something that
is dramatic without it actually making too much sense.

BUT! It does have SOME redeeming qualities! The melodrama wasn't
nonstop hilarity so thankfully something else held my attention. There
was actual effort put into this film. The fight scenes actually used
REAL special effects (something the first film was a bit cheap on)
which actually looked kinda impressive. Any action was short lived
unfortunately but what little there was, they did a reasonable job
with.

I was impressed at the presence of transition. The previous film jumped
and skipped and the next plot point just WAS without having been
caused. This film (until near the end, of course) actually had a pace
and a coherency to it that allows you to understand it without reading
the books. This is a bonus. Certain things you'd think would drag on as
the director tries to give you time to let the "emotion" "sink in"
thankfully didn't take forever and the entire movie fit almost snuggly
into its 2 hour length. Too bad it fell apart more and more it went
along.

The film also shares the semi-awkward character interactions that
create the same humour as the first one. Not as deliberately funny as
the first one (though, as I said, it was pretty hilarious when it
wasn't meant to be) though.

Though it was many failings with only a few things to back it up as
being a reasonable film it will definitely make all you little teenage
girls out there desperate to see Jacob's hell tanked up body very
happy. You can HEAR the audience's reaction the first time Jacob takes
his shirt off. He's got all you need: Pecs, biceps, ABS OF STEEL and
minimal clothing. Too bad he lacks depth and real character. (Girls
love obsessively devoted Zombies, they don't think enough to complain)
It is NO WAY even NEAR one of the best films of 2009. NO ONE should say
this ridiculous claim.

Really tossing up between 3 and 4 stars. Mmm. I guess a movie's
highlight shouldn't be how low it sinks. 3.
<|_=00=_|>
I will preface this review by saying that I have not read any of the
twilight books, but I did watch the first movie before going to see
this film, and I am looking at the series purely from a cinematic
stand-point.

That being said, I thought this movie was a massive failure. The entire
movie was very slow, long, and awkward. As I was watching it, it really
felt like I was just watching a very long book unfold on screen, rather
than a movie that is BASED on a book. To die-hard fans of the book,
this could be considered a good thing, because all the fans really
wanted to see was a movie that depicted all of the events of the book
and followed it closely. By what I heard from book fans it seemed to
have succeeded in that regard, but that is not at all to the film's
credit. The film just moved from one scene to the next as if it was
counting off a large check-list of scenes that the fans wanted to see,
most of which just consisted of very uncomfortable and boring
one-on-one dialogues. The film had very little momentum, and was
tedious to watch. This was mostly due to the structure and pacing of
the film but also due to the characters.

To be fair, some of the characters were likable, but they had very
little chemistry. I already didn't quite believe Bella and Edward were
in love in the first twilight. In this one I would flat out argue with
Stephenie Meyer herself that the two characters were not in love. Their
relationship was stiff, there seemed to be no real emotions between
them, it merely consisted of silence, staring, and Edward randomly
throwing out gooey love phrases like "you are my everything" and "i
didn't wanna live in a world where you didn't exist" that just come out
sounding hollow. There was a little more chemistry between Bella and
Jacob, but even they were a bit awkward together. It seemed like none
of the characters could say two words to each other without a ton of
awkward pauses. The conversations were incoherent and annoying. There
was a little bit of humor in the dialogue that I admit got some
chuckles out of me, but even that came out of the awkwardness between
all of the characters.

There were, however, a few welcome releases from the snail-like
dialogue. Cinematically it had a few semi-redeeming moments. The score
was likable, and a couple of scenes were artistically shot, but even so
it was nothing that would deserve a best cinematography or best
director nomination. The other well-needed break from the awkwardness
came in the action scenes. They were very few and far between, and
rather incoherent with the rest of the film, but they were enjoyable.
The wolves were obviously CG in a lot of shots, but then there were
some shots where they actually looked pretty real, and they were
presented pretty well. They could have done a bit better job of
foreshadowing them but hey at this point in the movie i was willing to
accept what I could get. There was also a more intense scene near the
end that I won't spoil that I thought was fairly well-done.

All in all, I did enjoy a few scenes in this movie, but as a whole it
was slow, incoherent, poorly acted, and a bit uncomfortable. If you're
a die-hard fan of the book, there's a chance you'll love it but if
you're looking for a truly cinematic experience, this isn't it.

3 stars out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
well to start off, I've read all four books, and saw the first movie
which i loathed.It had horrible acting, and cringe-worthy dialogue. so
i was extremely disappointed with that one.I saw the trailer for new
moon and became very anxious to see it. i was hoping it would be better
since they got a new director......well i was wrong.i got my tickets in
advance. pulled up to the theater with my mom-she has read the series
to and thought twilight sucked-and we couldn't sit together because
there was so many screaming teen girls.we got there half an hour
earlier thinking there'd be no one there..... anyways,so the movie
starts, i'm feeling pretty good.....sure as hell did not see this piece
of crap coming.WORST.ACTING. but not from everyone.just Kristen and
Robert.there was no chemistry at all between them as some claim. half
the time he wasn't even looking at her!he mumbles his lines and its
just BAD. then Kristen cant show emotion to save her life. she does
this rapid blinking thing i don't understand.if they were replaced it
would make a huge difference. Taylor was pretty good for the most part.
he over acted at times and it came off as fake to me. like something
you would see in a soap opera. but the rest of the Cullen clan,the wolf
pack,and her school mates were excellent. the cgi was good,had really
good stunt work. some lines seemed out of place to me. the leading
roles need to FEEL the words and not just say them nonchalantly. the
ending was bad to. they cut too many scenes from the book that would
make a big difference to. so overall I'm disappointed. why this is such
a big franchise i have no idea. fans are too obsessed, boggles my
mind.i was left dissatisfied, but of course the rabid fan base will
approve.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it last night and what a disappointment !!!

Its a 130min gushy of a troubled Bella who swings between Edward an
Jacob, looking for the who she loves more. It's all about Looonnnggg
closeups of Bella and Edward kissing, or attempting to do so, an on the
other side, there is the Looonnnggg fixation of Jacob for Bella and
their Looonnnggg staring and trying to kiss each other.

The hole story should fit in a 90min feature, and not more.

Much worse than Twilight.

Its only for the fans, don't waste your money if your not.

Final word, this film is so boring.

2/10

And lets see what they are making for the third part !!!
<|_=00=_|>
Well, my lovely lady wife has been waiting for this movie since
Twilight, and is a huge fan of the books, I thought I would keep her
company. We saw the Twilight when it first came out, and I wasn't
really impressed with that, so though, hey ho, go in with low
expectations and hopefully I would be surprised.

The only problem was, I don't think I could have expected less and
still been as bored as I was.

When in the theatre I was probably the oldest male at 37, apart from
some dads that had been brought along by their kids, and several
boyfriends, which is fair as I guess the film is aimed at the younger
ladies than us old folks.

So, we sat down and I waited for anything to happen, well anything
really. There was no chemistry at all between the leading actors, just
a dull numbness which left me bored, I really don't know how Kristen
Stewart got the role as she's possibly the most boring actress around
and added nothing to the film at all, unless I guess she was just asked
to play a spoilt brat with no brain.

I thought, maybe there is some suspense? Nope, none of that either.
Bella does a very good job of not really showing any emotion either way
and where in Twilight you there was at least a couple of times it made
you think "something good might happen" there wasn't really a single
moment in this film that stood out, although I was at some point
expecting to see the teleprompter which some of the actors looked like
they might have been using, so wooden was the performance.

It's a shame really that the other film I have seen recently "UP" you
feel more attachment to the characters in that, than you do to the
actors in this.

Yes, the CGI was good, the Wolves were pretty great. But like in 2012,
throw a lot of money at CGI and be amazed, but that's about it. There
so many little bits of story that really didn't seem to do anything, it
really reminded me of another film directed by this lovely director,
Golden Compass anyone?? All in all, pretty much a letdown, and that's
with low expectations, if felt like just another suck on the wallet by
Hollywood to our pockets.

If you are thinking of this film, and really if you read most of the
reviews on this site I can't imagine why, wait until it comes onto DVD.
Rent it for £1 and you can get a couple of cheap laughs at the acting,
and for the ladies, buff men, apart from that give it a miss.
<|_=00=_|>
"Esoteric?" Are you serious? This movie is porn for women. Period.
Sparkly vampires? This "imprinting" garbage? What else could this be?
All this movie does is makes teenage girls thing that abusive
relationships with older men are normal, healthy, and "romantic." The
man is literally a parasite. He drinks blood for heaven's sake! He's
like a big, glittery mosquito. He doesn't even have any of the cool
stuff that Dracula had, like the ability to turn into a bat. Go see
something worth your time that won't rot your brain, and make you
stupider.

Don't waste your life on this Twilight garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
I cut them some slack with Twilight, but not with this one. To say the
book was butchered is an understatement. I was fully prepared to take a
long, depressing ride with Bella into the depths of h**l, but instead
took a trip down comedy lane. What was the point of all those
ridiculous one-liners? And Ashley (Alice) - she was terrible. She was
so much better in Twilight - at least she showed some character, but
here it was like watching paint dry when she spoke. And as for the
spoiler note, the only scene that gave me any enjoyment was the
confrontation between Bella and Paul. It was just as "electric" as I
pictured it in the book. Folks listen, don't waste the money. Wait for
the DVD, or even better, just wait for Netflix....
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Twilight before actually reading all 4 books - several
times.To be fair, New Moon was the least of my favorites - I am Team
Edward. So far I have seen this movie twice, hoping that by the 2nd
time it might do something for me. I was disappointed. From the opening
scene, I wanted - expected something to grab me - be it the scene or
the soundtrack.. but it fell flat. The film's director or maybe
screenwriter tried to reproduce the book faithfully, yes it's closer to
the book, but in doing so, the first half just dragged on, and the
music score did not help.The pace was so slow, the dialogue just fell
flat, Edward's eyebrows were too bushy (they were plucked/trimmed in
the 1st movie), the Cullen's contacts looked nothing like the 1st
movie. Alexandre Desplat is a great music scorer- but his style does
not suit this movie..there were scenes that required music, but there
was none. Whoever picked the songs for the soundtrack ought to be shot. 

I bought my daughter the CD a month ago, and the songs almost sound the
same.Nothing grabs you like in the Twilight Soundtrack. Say when you
hear "Super Massive Black Hole" you know it's from the baseball scene,
or "Eyes on Fire" when Bella was imagining Edward in her bedroom. Fans
still will buy it tho, no matter what. 

The pace picks up on the 2nd half when Bella cliff-jumps,and Alice
rushes back to see her thinking Bella tried to kill herself. From there
the pace quickens, to the point where I thought they were rushed-- from
Bella & Alice's trip to Italy to stop Edward from killing himself (or
being killed by the Volturi),to meeting them (Volturi)at last, to the
Cullens coming back to Forks, etc...it looked like the last half was
heavily edited - and badly at that. The scene that Alice shows Aro (to
prove to him that Bella will turn into a vampire eventually) made me
cringe - that of Edward & Bella running in the woods - people actually
laughed in the cinema..it looked really ridiculous and sappy.

Twilight was made on a measly $30M budget, but Catherine Hardwicke made
do with what was available successfully, it was a winning formula.
Hiring Chris Weitz for New Moon to "take it to the next level"
unfortunately, was a disappointment considering they had more $$$ to
play with. The CGI was better because they had more money, but that's
about it. Weitz hired Desplat whom he worked with previously - but it
just didn't work. It looked different, sounded different but for all
the wrong reasons. New Moon should have been bigger & better than
Twilight, but it's not. 

I hope the director does not mess up the 3rd movie - my favorite
book--and I hope the people behind the production wake up to their
senses and hire Carter Burwell to do the music score. He did a great
job with Twilight, anything less would be a crime.

Bitterly disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I had low expectations. After Twilight, this is now an obligation. I
don't care much for the books, even though I've read them. (Because
these days, you can't possibly have a rational opinion on this saga
unless you've read the books. Otherwise, you're just a plain ol' hater
who will be disregarded. Yeah, sounds about logical.) Anyway! I so
badly wanted to see Dakota shine, even though I reprimanded her
decision to get involved with this saga. Her eyes freaked me out - not
because they were red, but because they didn't focus on anything. She
just seemed to be staring vacantly ahead. (Though I've noticed this
with the majority of the cast...I fear it may be contagious.) Which
brings me to the Cullens. Call me closed-minded if you wish, but what
kind of people wouldn't notice a person with yellow eyes in school? I
definitely didn't see those yellow contacts in the first movie. If
anything, they were less vibrant and could pass as an exotic shade of
brown.

That said, I'm only glad I didn't pay for it. Avoid it. Or at least
wait until you can use the "fast forward" button to spare yourself the
agony.

Now if you'll excuse me, I have a Buffy collection waiting to be
re-watched so that I may cleanse my head of this filth they call a
modern Romeo & Juliet. I'm pretty sure Shakespeare would want no
association with this whatsoever.
<|_=00=_|>
Ahh, what a fickle bunch Twilight fans are. I remember the release of
the first film last year, and the incredible backlash from fans of the
series--can't even remember the number of comments saying "Stick to the
book!" Incredible liberties were taken with the plot (or did we all
forget the butchering of the much-beloved meadow scene in the first
movie?), and too much of Hardwicke's own film-making style was imposed
upon a story that was not hers to fiddle with.

Then New Moon comes out. Obviously, the screenwriter and director went
to great lengths to painstakingly recreate the second book in film
form, undoubtedly due to the response to Twilight. I am hard-pressed to
think of any really pivotal plot points that were excluded from this
film (and, no, the flights to and from Italy don't qualify as
"pivotal"). But suddenly fans come out in droves to complain on the
Internet that the dialogue is cheesy? Hello, have you READ the books?
Any actor is going to choke on the ridiculous dialogue that Stephenie
Meyer came up with (I doubt even Robert De Niro could sell that tripe).
Her dialogue only sounds remotely reasonable on the page. At least this
movie didn't include such horrendous lines as "I hated you for making
me want you so much"). And people saying it's slow? Again, take a look
at the book--the vast majority of the story is devoted to Bella moping
over the imaginary hole in her chest. It wasn't exactly an
action-packed thrill ride.

I for one thought this movie was a vast improvement over the first,
primarily because it stayed so true to the book. And Weitz, unlike
Hardwicke, wasn't itching to impose his own style on the story by using
crazy camera angles and other weird stylistic elements that were
nowhere suggested in the pages of Twilight. New Moon was fittingly
glossy and stylistically neutral, appealing to a wider range of tastes.
It was filmed beautifully and, to my great relief, had a much wider
color palette than the first film.

As for the acting--let's face it, Kristen's never going to be an
impressive performer until she realizes that scoffing doesn't qualify
as "emoting." And Rob just seems flat-out wrong for this role, but I
think he did tap into Edward's inner turmoil better than in Twilight. I
thought the performances were, overall, a huge improvement over the
first film, especially from Taylor, who fits the sunshiney role of
Jacob to a T. The Cullens were, yes, sadly underutilized, but making
the movie longer just to give them more screen time isn't going to
appease complaints about it being boring and slow as it is.

Hopefully this film will get the credit it deserves after the initial
tsunami of unreasonable outrage. It's obvious that the filmmakers are
trying incredibly hard to please the fans of the book by staying closer
to the text. Here's hoping they don't throw up their hands in
frustration upon discovering that loyalty to the book is apparently not
good enough either.
