
This movie is making the festival rounds right now, but unlike a lot of
over-hyped festival fodder,it is genuinely a good movie, which I
suspect will soon become more widely available. It reminded me somewhat
of the Coen brother's film "O Brother Where Art Thou?"--not in that it
is in any way unoriginal--but it has a similarly surreal, absurdist
sense of humor, and like the Coen brother's film, it is a modern
adaptation of a classic work of literature, in this case "Dante's
Inferno".

The great Steve Buscemi plays "John Alegheri" (as in Dante Alegheri), a
reformed compulsive gambler with a comfortable, if mundane, life living
in a tract home and working for an insurance agency. But after he asks
his diminutive boss (Peter Dinklage) for a raise, he suddenly finds
himself promoted to fraud and, along with a partner named "Virgil"
(Romany Malco), is sent on a fraud investigation, which proves to be a
metaphoric descent into hell--and in particular, his own personal
version of hell since the investigation takes place in and around Las
Vegas, a city where he had some unpleasant personal history.

He and "Virgil's" various bizarre encounters on their journey include a
sexy stripper in a wheelchair (Emamanuelle Chriqui) still trying to
perform lap dances, a group of heavily armed right-wing survivalists
(including "O Brother's" Tim Blake Nelson) who also happen to be
nudists, and in the most surreal scene, a tow-truck driver who has
second job as a circus performer and as the result of a bizarre
accident is stuck in a lawn chair in a flame-retardant suit that
periodically catches on fire (and, hilariously, what he really wants is
a cigarette). There's a some nice twists at the end and the character
reaches a final personal epiphany while buying scratch tickets at a
convenience store on the outskirts of the dreaded Vegas.

Sarah Silverman plays a co-worker who he starts an affair with after a
quickie in the woman's bathroom before he leaves on his journey. It's
an unusual role for Silverman, not only in that it exploits her
considerable sex appeal, but also in that while it is a comedy role, it
is one very different from her usual foul-mouthed stand-up persona.
Buscemi, on the other hand, doesn't stretch himself too much, but he
doesn't really have to either--he's great at roles like this. The
director was actually first-timer and this is particularly impressive
as a debut effort (I suppose could complain that the only full-frontal
nudity is provided, not by Emanuelle Chriqui or Silverman, but by Tim
Blake Nelson!--but I won't). This was entertaining from start to
finish. I'd really recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Buscemi holds this one together, the other main characters are
impossible to identify with - either because they don't say much or
they are mysterious and mean. There are a lot of bizarre situations
that are thrown in which don't really further the storyline but show
off a type of artistic creativeness. They definitely had a lot of good
ideas here, and perhaps the movie would have been more interesting if
they simply abandoned the tired story line and went from one hypnotic
scenario to the next (Like Fear and Loathing). But the main story (the
story about the insurance fraud) progresses in the background without
momentum and when it is finally resolved it feels anticlimactic. But
there is another story here, perhaps more important - the one
concerning Steve Buscemis past. This could have been developed into a
compelling and meaningful drama but it is only used to further the
comedy (and to tack on the Confucious ending) There are a few laughs
along the way here and a good deal of cute/quirky ideas. Could have
been improved with a bit of storyline editing beforehand.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really excited about this movie. When I saw the trailer for this
movie, I felt like it couldn't be out on DVD soon enough. As soon as
this was out on Redbox I rented it. Lucky for me I had a promo code and
got this movie for free. You can just see how low the budget on this
movie would have been.

It had it funny moments which were REALLY funny, but they were few and
far apart. When you snag actors like Steve Buscemi, Romany Malco, Sarah
Silverman and Peter Dinklage, you ensure they have a script to match
their caliber. This script was mediocre and the story had no drive or
punch. I expected a bit more off the ending, but to me it was an
anticlimax.

My suggestion is to rent this movie if you really like the leads. Steve
Buscemi and Romany Malco have done a great job acting. If you are
expecting a classy suave movie set in Las Vegas, look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really know a lot about how indy movies like this come to be.
This isn't the result of some determined filmmaker exhausting his
credit cards to see his lifelong dream come to fruition. This isn't the
product of some movie star slumming their way to artistic credibility.
This wasn't some cracklin' crazy script that a producer fell in love
with and just had to see made. There's no sex. There's no violence.
There's no blasphemy or other provocative storytelling. It's not
noticeably clever or whimsical and Saint John of Las Vegas sure as hell
isn't funny. Yet, a few million dollars and a cast of talented
performers somehow wound up entrusted to writer/director Hue Rhodes to
do with as he saw fit. We would have all been better off if "The
American Dream" Dusty Rhodes had been given a shot at making a motion
picture. 90 minutes of Sarah Silverman talking with a lisp and
delivering the bionic elbow to every other member of the cast would
have been more entertaining.

John (Steve Buscemi) is a sad sack with an out-of-date hairdo who works
for an insurance company. He's also an absolutely, completely and
utterly horrible gambler. He's the sort who'll buy 20 dollars of
scratch-off lottery tickets and scratch them off in the store because
he needs to win enough money to pay for the tickets. One day, John goes
in to ask his boss (Peter Dinklage) for a raise and winds up getting
assigned to investigate a fraudulent auto accident with Virgil (Romany
Malco), the off-putting, hot shot lead investigator of the company.
After banging his smiley face-obsessed cubicle neighbor (Sarah
Silverman) in the handicapped bathroom, despite knowing she's involved
with his boss, John sets out with Virgil on a voyage of non-discovery.

If I tell you that John and his "guide" Virgil eventually meet a guy
named Lucypher (Matthew McDuffie), you can probably guess what metaphor
is at work here. However, this story has as much in common with Dante's
Inferno as the back of a box of Captain Crunch. Hue Rhodes had better
hope there isn't a circle in Hell reserved for people who make homages
as botched and listless as Saint John of Las Vegas. In fact, if you
know someone who's watched this movie and doesn't know it's classical
origins, don't tell them. After sitting through this lifeless dreck,
they'll never want to read the original.

The actors here are all capable of fine work and Silverman looks pretty
sexy while turning in a welcomely restrained performance. And for all
his deficiencies as a storyteller, Rhodes' visual sensibility is at
least more developed than the multitude of aspiring directors whose
every inspiration seems to flow from music videos. But goodness
gracious, this thing is not funny. It's not deliberately funny. It's
not inadvertently funny. You can't laugh with it. You can't laugh at
it. You can't laugh about it. The few times the film strays into the
vicinity of a possibly comedic circumstance, like when John and Virgil
encounter a nudist militia, writer/director Rhodes goes out of his way
to avoid any humorous potential like an obsessive-compulsive who won't
step on any cracks in the street.

Saint John of Las Vegas is so lame and pointless that the only reaction
it can spark in the viewer is incredulity at how anyone ever thought
this thing needed to be made. The on screen appeal of these actors is
all that allows it to be tedious instead of torturous. They don't
actually do anything worth watching, but their presence can at least
distract you from how poorly conceived and structured is this
production. But you'd still be better off reading Dante in the original
language, even if the only Italian you know is Chef Boyardee.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Buscemi is at his best when working with a fast-paced script full
of unanswerable one-liners (see 'Delirious'). Unfortunately the script
for this film was was not of this ilk, and a Steve Buscemi at half
speed is not a funny Steve Buscemi. What were the script writers and/or
directors thinking of? Rarely do films with such potential for comedy
fall as short as this one has. I watched it until the rolling credits
for the main reason of seeing what the unsubtle twist was going to be.
There was clearly going to be one and when it arrived it was as
surprising as sunrise. In terms of entertainment value it's just about
watchable but if you're a Steve Buscemi fan you might be disappointed
with this when you quickly conclude that you have seen the man in far
better form.
<|_=00=_|>
John (Steve Buscemi), a recovering gambler, is sent back to Las Vegas
by his employer to research insurance fraud. Along the way he must face
junkyard thugs, a crippled stripper and try to maintain a relationship
with his less-than-stable girlfriend (Sarah Silverman).

This story is somehow based on the writings of Dante Aligheri. I don't
see it. I freely admit by knowledge of "Inferno" and "Paradiso" is not
on the level it could be, but this had to be a very loose
interpretation to say the least. However, regardless of the source
material, the finished product is a gem that sadly did not get the full
attention it deserved. This should have been a major theatrical release
and success rather than a film festival darling.

Sure, it has that "independent" feel to it, like a darker "Garden
State"... but if people like Wes Anderson can make it big off of the
indie film feeling, why not this film? Steve Buscemi has a huge cult
following, as does Sarah Silverman. Buscemi was what attracted me to
this film -- he has never failed to disappoint me in any of his roles
from "Big Lebowski" to "Ghost World" to "Reservoir Dogs". One of the
biggest flaws another indie film, "Floundering", made was using Buscemi
too little.

The directing is tight, the story is tight... the word "tight" is
really the way to describe this film. The pace keeps steady, with never
a dull moment despite not really being anything close to an action
film. John is a perfect everyman inserted into odd situations (did I
mention the nudists?) so we can both sympathize with him, yet enjoy
that he has quirks we wouldn't, and weaknesses we do not. It is as
though watching our best friend on an adventure.

If you missed this one on the festival circuit (and let's be frank,
most of us do not have the luxury of attending them), please do
yourself a favor and rent this film, or perhaps even purchase it. I
think it's the kind of film that will have a strong word-of-mouth fan
base, and it would be in your best interest to discover it before all
your friends have first. So many films slip under the radar... don't
let "Saint John of Las Vegas" be one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this on Netflix Streaming recently. It's a small film about one
man's addiction to gambling and his job as an insurance adjuster. It's
not an earth shaking topic. Steve Buscemi's not saving the world or
even the United States. However, I love Steve Buscemi. He's an actor's
actor. I have never seen him in a performance I didn't like. OK maybe
one-:). It's not often he's the main character. I only wish I could
pull this one (hee hee) as well as he did in this movie. the movie. And
the same goes for Peter Dinkle. I would have rewritten his role
slightly to give him a bigger role.I found the inside details about how
the insurance adjuster business works rather interesting. And Sarah
Silverman is ravishing! And as for people who say this is not funny. I
found it humorous enough. It's not slapstick but rather people are
portrayed more or less realistically unlike TV sitcoms but it still
allows you to see their character flaws in a humorous light. If you
don't mind self-deceiving characters (is that a word?) and not many
things getting blown up or people getting killed then this is your
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
IndieVest shot themselves in the foot by putting this dud out as their
first release. With their membership based business model of anyone
funding a film, Saint John Of Las Vegas killed that platform after
opening theatrically without so much as a whimper.

This is an unwatchable, amateurish disaster overloaded with quirk and
just limps from one disconnected non sequitur to the next. How this
pile of nonsense attracted Spike Lee, Stanley Tucci and Steve Buscemi
as producers is more bewildering than the final product. This is an
awful picture, that had the support of people that should have known
better.
<|_=00=_|>
enjoyed this short movie - (just under 85 minutes) - because the actors
are in full character start to finish. and the strip club scene is a
great laugh with the wheelchair bound stripper and buscemi playing her
on!

once you meet the characters they are consistent and do not vary. malco
is so good in his wacky and slightly mean insurance investigator role
you have to like him. and buscemi is perfect as the 'forever looser'
you just feel sorry for him. and casting dinklage as the insurance
company owner was just genius! and silverman is always easy to like.

the story is easy to follow until the junk yard scene near the end with
the gun shots! at that point with buscemi escaping and calling the cops
(watch it) i became confused as to exactly what just took place in the
plot line. that is the only reason i am rating it 2 stars short of a
10.

if you enjoy indie films pick this one up!
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen a lot of interpretations on Dante's Inferno: the guy enters
hell. From here to saying any movie about someone's falling is an
interpretation is a stretch. And I know the writer and the director
thought they were being smart doing a modern adaptation from a story no
one really cares about and basically replacing everything, but I was
the one watching, and I didn't find it smart, interesting or even good.

Steve Buscemi is one of my favorite actors, and he did play the part
well, but the plot was simply a boring, useless, close to horizontal,
descent into a hell that few people could have related to. The funny
parts were not funny, the smart parts were obtuse, the action parts not
existent. Oh, wait a minute... it was MY descent into hell, when I
realize I've just wasted an hour and a half of my life for no good
reason. I see now... really smart.

Bottom line: Sorry, Mr. Buscemi, sorry sexy Sarah Silverman, the film
just sucked for me.
