
Let's get the good parts out of the way first:

- Chris Pine.

OK, now that we got that out of the way...WHAT THE HELL, JACK RYAN
SHADOW RECRUIT???

Listen, in going over what really bothered me about this movie, I sort
of have to spoil some of it. So, before I do that, let me just quickly
summarize: Chris Pine proves himself as a good, maybe even great action
lead, but the story is so bare-bones and straight-forward (and at
times, stupid) that Pine's performance is really the only justifiable
reason to watch this. Shaky cameras during fight scenes DO NOT help the
cause either. (Seriously, this is such a pet peeve when it comes to
action movies, why do we still deal with this?) Jack Ryan: Shadow
Recruit scores a 2.5 out of 5 on The BDBOS. 

Now, take this as your warning: BEYOND THIS POINT WILL BE SPOILERS.
READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.

Show of hands...how many of you guys out there have seen the trailer
for this movie? The trailer hints at - and by "hints at", I mean "beats
you over the head with" - the idea that no one can be trusted.
Specifically, the trailer shows Keira Knightley's character (Jack
Ryan's love interest) apparently betraying Jack. The trailer also shows
Kevin Costner's character (Jack's mentor and superior) aiming at Jack
through the scope of a sniper rifle. Even the movie poster has the tag
line "Trust No One". So, you'd figure going in that you're in for some
serious double-crossing and not knowing who's on Jack's side, right?

No.

Literally, there is NO DOUBLE-CROSSING WHAT-SO-EVER in this movie. The
good guys from the beginning stay good the whole way through. Same with
the bad guys. As a matter of fact, there are way more people in this
movie you CAN TRUST than there are of the opposite. Apparently, the
"trust no one" warning was meant for the villain, since he's the only
one that gets deceived in any way. The line should have been "Trust no
one...if you're a terrorist."

Still not sure who to trust? There's another easy way to figure out
who's good and bad in this movie, and all you need is this simple
equation: American=good. Not American=bad. Again, a better tag line
would have been "Trust no one...unless they speak perfect English
without any foreign accent."

Now, some questions...

- If you're an assassin, and you're only job is to kill this
guy...shouldn't you be killing the guy at your first opportunity? Or
your second? Or third? And not HOURS LATER, after the guy learns that
you're carrying a gun? 

- If you're a different assassin, and you've already used your
trademark knife to kill a few other people...where was your knife when
you had to fight the hero? Who was UNARMED during the fight???

- If you've had severe spinal surgery, and went through months of
intense rehab just to be able to walk again...and, for argument's sake,
you're on a speeding motorcycle that SLAMS into the side of a van...how
are you then able to get up, walk away, and continue to chase the bad
guy???

- Will they let ANYONE into your hotel room if they simply claim to be
your wife? Without ANY sort of proof??

- Is Jack Ryan the SMARTEST PERSON EVER??? Because everyone else in the
CIA seem like morons.

- How many people did they send to Moscow for this mission??? It seemed
like there were 47 people on the street that were all in on the
operation, and yet the inexperienced financial officer who had
reconstructive spinal surgery and never killed anyone is the guy they
send in for ALL the dirty work. 

Listen, with action movies, you're often asked to suspend disbelief for
the sake of enjoyment, but Shadow Recruit took too many liberties for
my liking. And, after all the promotion for the film, I left the
theater wondering if I saw the right movie. "Trust no one...except
everyone."

Chris Pine, this wasn't your fault. 

2.5 out of 5. Pass on it.

(Hey guys, thanks for checking out my review. If you enjoyed it - or
even a tiny bit of it - then perhaps you'd enjoy checking out my little
page over at facebook.com/TheBDBOS. Movie reviews, news, chat, even the
occasional free ticket giveaway. All on your news feed. Stop by and say
wussup!)
<|_=00=_|>
In 2002 the underwhelming The Sum of All Fears - with Ben Affleck in
the lead role - put the Ryan franchise in the morgue. 12 years on and
the famous CIA analyst is back on the big screen with a brand new story
and a fresh face. Perhaps they should've waited another dozen years, as
this reboot is utterly forgettable and offers nothing in the way of
originality or inventiveness. The action has no pulse, the plot is
straight out of 1980 and there's no thriller element to keep you
guessing as the "Trust No One" tagline on the poster would suggest;
which is all a shock when you consider Kenneth Branagh was at the helm
and his last effort Thor, was such a gleefully entertaining motion
picture. It also doesn't help that the latest incarnation of Jack Ryan,
as portrayed by Chris Pine, has about as much charisma as a tree. Keira
Knightley, Kevin Costner and Branagh are serviceable as love interest,
mentor and villain respectively, however there's little any of them can
do to boost the excitement levels. It's not a bad movie per se, just a
run- of-the-mill affair you'll struggle to remember after the end
credits.
<|_=00=_|>
It's ironic that "Jack Ryan" is part of the title for this one because
this is the furthest from the character that any of the films have
been. Beyond a some what similar back-story, the doctor soon to be
wife, and that he works for the CIA, Ryan is not Ryan. They turn him
more into a spy/field agent than the brainy analyst that he's meant to
be. As a result, there is nothing in this movie that makes it stand out
from the rest of it's genre. It's just another spy movie with an over
the top villain that's plotting world domination. It's predictable and
generic. They sacrificed what made the Jack Ryan character unique. 

I'm not saying that the movie didn't work as some Bond/Bourne/Mission
Impossible wannabe with bits and pieces slapped together from every spy
thriller ever made. It captured successful elements from those films
pretty well. It's just a shame that they relied on recycling tired and
over used narrative when there is still a bunch of great Ryan books
that they have yet to adapt. There should be no reason to slap together
this films story when a much more talented writer like Clancy still has
more stories to draw from. I agree with Peter Travers comment "It's a
product constructed out of spare parts and assembled with computerized
precision."

Despite following a predictable formula very closely instead of the
source material, the movie still works as entertainment. Chris Pine is
great, despite the writers failing him, and he really carries the
movie. He could be a great Jack Ryan if they actually wrote the
character correctly. Branagh delivers a pretty good villain, even
though he's more suited for a Bond film. There are a couple of scenes
that deliver good suspense. It's just not a Jack Ryan movie. It seems
that they only used Jack Ryan for the brand name rather than faithfully
trying to tell a story about him.
<|_=00=_|>
Very entertaining ride, but disappointing when put against the early
Harrison Ford/Baldwin Jack Ryan films which took the subject matter
more seriously and were not as ridiculously CSI-Miami-ish like this one
is. Also they focused on his cunning and did not pretend he could
transform in moments from geek analyst to James Bond in Hulk-like
speed.

Here are my gripes with this movie

1) The infamous Hollywood cliché checklist: 9/11 Terror imagery? Check.
Boogeymen Russians even though the cold war ended decades ago? Check.
Ticking time bomb as opposed to a device that just blows up instantly
via remote? Check. Name-dropping the latest internet social networks?
Check. 2) We are meant to believe that a brilliant CIA analyst working
on top secret national security projects is unable to hide something as
benign as a movie ticket from a super secret meeting with another
"covert" agent? 3) The CIA just runs around Moscow shooting off guns,
speeding through streets, and clearing corpses from hotel rooms?
Really? 4) A plot point is that one terrorist had someone take photos
of a downtown city area for reconnaissance. As if there is not enough
free, untrackable stock images available from google maps and other
websites that show every square inch of every American city. Taking
traceable photos of a building is pointless in the new internet age. 5)
Keira Knightley's annoying face and whining. 6) The CIA leaving
national security up to a CIA analyst who was activated by accident and
his wife who didn't know he was working for the CIA. 7) A CIA analyst
who only spent a few months in battle-training suddenly sneaking around
like James Bond. 8) A pushing 60 Kevin Costner trying to be believable
sneaking around like James Bond in skull caps. Also, Kevin Costner
needed something else to do in this film other than just being Kevin
Costner. He was a generic character with no impact on the stakes or
overall climax. 9) We don't learn much about the main character besides
the usual Hollywood cliché nonsense of him being a "Patriotic, Heroic,
Genius, Faithful husband" American that has no flaws and of course was
a Veteran who for some reason knows everything. In the Harrison Ford
films at least we saw him at CIA headquarters and interacting with
bureaucrats, etc. This film was like an episode of 24. 10) OK it's a
movie, but the convenience of how many times these main characters
happen to be in the right/wrong place at the right/wrong time is
absolutely ridiculous. Not to mention the entire premise of the film
relies on layers and layers of coincidences that all depend on Jack
Ryan's life following an exact script in order to find out the terror
plan, the perpetrators, and save the day. 11) The Russian villain
suddenly realizes Jack Ryan is a history buff simply because Jack Ryan
knows the name of a painting? Come on now. Where were the exchanges in
Russian to show his linguistic skills? Just, OH, you know the name of
this painting, therefore, audience, this guy is a historian. 

But overall an entertaining film, however generic and should have just
been named something else, not related to Tom Clancy. Absurd but fun.
<|_=00=_|>
No one should see this movie, EVER. It is literally the corniest "spy"
movie ever put out into the world and is on point as far as shitiness
with Garbage Pail Kids. It should have ended as soon as Jack was shot
at from behind in the hotel room and somehow dodged the bullet, but
even if he survived this, DEFINITELY after he confessed him being in
the CIA to his fiancé/wife/girl/doctor/unbelievably acted role played
by keira knightley. How does Jack go from being a CIA analyst to being
fully operative, able to drive at high rates of speed in a city he's
never been in within a matter of a day, and why was the bomb at the end
of the movie set for 5 minutes? 30 plus years of planning for a
downfall of the US in 2014, with a well plotted attacked on NYC by some
Russian with stage 3 psorasis and a VODKA problem or whatever and the
bomb was set to 5 minutes. GTFO. I'm done commenting because this has
already taken too much of my time but please listen to this, and save
your money/time/wasted energy and do ANYTHING else.
<|_=00=_|>
This reboot feels like a knockoff similar to A Good Day To Die Hard.
Both have chase scenes in Moscow and both were made relatively cheaply,
well this one even more so. What disappointed me most was the attention
to detail that Clancy was always famous for. A great deal is smoothed
over to forward the plot in it's brisk pace. Previous Ryan films were
capable of bringing depth to the peril and stakes as the players made
their moves. Where previous Ryan films had large political stakes that
brought real tension, the stakes here seem to be more economic than
fear for great loss and limb, although the third act implies some
mayhem. In general you can't really compare this cheap knockoff to a
minor tent pole film that has a big enough budget to have a larger
scope and sexier action scenes. The car chase is too generic in jump
camera shots, etc. to feel much tension. But other spy thriller moments
do thrill, so I will give this film enough credit to deliver on some of
the goods. Another unflattering comparison is the Bourne Legacy reboot.
It also suffered from lack of budget for a decent action punch.

Pine as Ryan is less inspired for me. Perhaps because his face has been
seen quite a bit lately, or his characterisation has less depth. Same
goes for the mentor character played by Kevin Costner. There is too
little meat to chew on. A better move would have added a few more
wrinkles (not necessarily plot twists), such as more than just a few
shots of the terrorism plot brewing in the United States. I would
support a sequel to this reboot if a better budget with some more meat
pieces, and a story that is fleshed out better. I believe director
Branagh is a capable but not exceptional director, and some scenes
slightly miss the mark. The overall slick look that is also a trademark
to Ryan films is missing here, although the production design is not
lacking. My final analysis is that this is a film not based on a Tom
Clancy novel that is an average of 900 pages of background, substance,
and real drama. That lack of depth makes this thriller too transparent.
<|_=00=_|>
I had very low expectations going into this film. The trailer made it
look like a very typical action film that would possibly have a plot
twist in it to keep us interested. Typical it was. Plot twist? Nope. I
was bored the entire time.

The plot is straight forward. A super intelligent former marine, war
hero, who recovered from a wound he acquired saving his fellow marines,
becomes an analyst for the CIA. He stumbles upon a terrorist plot
straight out of the Cold War, and then gets thrown into the mix,
becomes a field agent overnight, and saves America.

At no point are you trying to figure out what is going on? Who is the
villain? Who is behind the plot? What is the plot? The answers to these
questions are all handed to us on a silver platter. 

I was left with other questions, addressing the gaping plot holes. Why
did the King of Qarth try killing Jack Ryan? How did the bad guys
already know he was after them? Why didn't they send more people when
he didn't return? How did the FBI already know about a sleeper agent?
Why wasn't the plot uncovered earlier if Chris Pine, Kiera Knightly and
Kevin Costner can piece it together in 5 minutes on a plane? Why didn't
the Sleeper agent stab Chris Pine when he had the chance...twice? 

I am glad I didn't have to pay to see this. Don't waste your money. It
isn't even worthy of a casual viewing because you are bored and don't
want to think. Watch S.W.A.T. instead.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not the most discriminating of action film viewers, avid reader of
Clancy and his designated batters and thought Chris Pine did a
wonderful job on the Star Trek films. 

That said, this film was a load of rubbish....one of the few times that
I seriously considered walking out mid-film. 

The reasons: 1. Acting was wooden across the board and the selection of
Keira Knightly as Dr. Cathy Ryan was abysmally bad;

2. Plot (contrary to some of the views I read) was non-existent and
farcical. Unlike a good Clancy novel, no basis in reality;

3. There is one scene that is particularly ridiculous. All I will ask
an intelligent viewer, do you ever think a Russian oligarch worth
billions would seriously consider going out to dinner with a compliance
officer. 

I would seriously not bother going to see this film or even bother it
renting it. In short, even if someone gave me free tickets with dinner
included, I would now pass on the "opportunity."
<|_=00=_|>
Chris Pine takes the role of Jack Ryan but has nowhere to go with it.
Kevin Costner gets the worst of a cliché riddled script with lines
like, "now you are operational". Perhaps they were going for comedy?
Keira Knightly is capable of more. Kenneth Branagh makes a good
villain.

The movie delivers about what you expect. There is loud music that
gives away the suspense scenes. Cars crash about. Everyone you know
will survive does and the world is saved for another day.

Everything is predictable. The only twist will be you in your seat as
you hope for a fade to black. There's a reason this is a January
release. Wait it will be coming to a platform near you soon.
<|_=00=_|>
What an utterly sad and offensive legacy for Tom Clancy. In Hollywood,
truly, nothing is sacred.

Instead of the thought provoking, truth to power story we came to
expect from a Jack Ryan movie, this brings us more of Hollywood's
waronterrah porn.

It was interesting a bit back in 2002 maybe. Let it go. As propaganda,
you've pretty much saturated your market. For the rest of us, you've
actually made expensive CGI FX boring.

The thing that made Jack Ryan more interesting than a Steven Seagal
character was he was thoughtful, intelligent, and not an action figure.
And Clancy raised some fascinating dilemmas with American might and
power.

What is this? Garbage.
