
I cannot believe that this movie has such a low rating. It is a kid's
movie people! You have to take it for what it is, it's not meant to be
a mind provoking film! I thought it was pretty funny and I enjoyed it.
It's much better then the other movies for kid's that have been
released lately. The movie was excellent and I especially thought Mr.
Tinkle's performance definitely stole the show once he was on screen.
There were many scenes throughout the film that had me laughing so hard
I cried. If you do not like kid's movies then don't see this- plain and
simple! But if you are like me and you want to see it just for the cute
comedy then see it. Personally I thought it was funnier then a lot of
comedies for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
The children will really like this film, but the adults won't. So I
advice you to go to the movie theaters as a family and your 4-12 years
old go watch this film and you and our spouse or partner watch a more
grown up film like Inception or if you have already seen Inception,
then go watch Salt. However this isn't the worst film ever, or the
worst film of Summer 2010, there are actually some funny and enjoyable
moments in this film, however there aren't many of them at all. If it
was consistently funny, I'd recommend it to the whole family or anyone
looking for a good time.

This film is actually better than Marmaduke, but its still very dull
and really not funny. It won't be a horrible experience watching this
film, but it will be boring.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Took my sons aged 4 & 6 to this & they loved it. It may not be the most
entertaining movie ever for adults, but heck, it passed a morning of
the school holidays, & that's good enough for me. Being a Bond fan, I
loved the opening credits & liked the fact that they were copying that
genre. I confess to intermittent feelings of boredom, but have yet to
sit through a kid's movie where this was not the case at some point. It
is clearly very very difficult to make a film which genuinely
entertains adults and children throughout - if they manage to make both
laugh at some point, they are doing well in my humble opinion! I asked
my kids whether they had preferred Toy Story 3 (which has a much higher
rating on IMDb) or Cats & Dogs, and they said they had liked both just
the same. Perhaps IMDb should only allow kids to review kids films!
Adults, this film may not be Oscar material, but lets keep things in
perspective.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the cinema to watch this movie because my girlfriend really
appreciated the first part which I've never seen and she convinced me
to come with her. She bought the DVD of the first movie and there was a
special gift card in it which allowed her to have a reduction of ten
dollars on a ticket for the sequel and so we went to the cinema.

I didn't expect anything from this movie and I wouldn't usually comment
on such a movie because it is simply not my kind of genre, but as I see
now such horrible votes and the movie entering in the infamous top one
hundred bottom list, I thought I'd be better if I might write my
opinion, because this movie isn't simply that bad - and I am generally
kind of severe on movies! While watching this movie for one and a half
hour, I've never taken a look on my watch, I've never felt bored at all
and I found this movie very entertaining. There were also a lot of nice
laughs, especially the naive but sympathetic pigeon was worth the watch
- and let me tell you that it is rather difficult to make me laugh.
Beside the pigeon, the little girl which always saw the animals making
crazy things while her mother didn't recognize anything was an
entertaining running gag, too. Another funny thing was the scene in the
animal's Alcatraz which I thought was a nice idea. The collaboration,
the prejudices and the growing team spirit between the secret agencies
of the cats and the dogs were also some really nice elements in this
movie even if they were predictable. And the movie even had something
philosophical: Cats and dogs put away their prejudices to save their
beloved humans together and fight a common enemy. Well, I know, this is
a predictable content, too, but still very touching and even teaching
for young kids who are watching this movie. And the idea of adapting
the world of James Bond to the world of cats and dogs isn't silly at
all, but very funny for the kids, nicely done for the adults who
understand some funny allusions and certainly better than most of the
boring super agent comedy movie in the key of Austin Powers and other
boring stuff.

A part of that, the movie is well animated and has a perfect length.
People who really like cats or especially dogs might even give a few
stars more, for example for the funny and cute video clips in the end
of the movie.

Of course, this movie is just a sequel, it shows nothing innovating and
the story is predictable and of course there are no twists in the
movie, but you can't expect that from any animation movie a part of the
amazing "Wall-E". Some people here say that you should put the children
into the cinema to watch this movie and head yourself for the - in my
opinion - heavily overrated "Inception" - I mean, you just can't
compare those movies and if you take this point as a judgement, it is
certain that you may be disappointed.

So, don't listen to some of those really ordinary and exaggerated hate
comments and spend some ninety minutes with your kids or younger sister
or girlfriend or cat/dog fetish, switch your brain off and enjoy the
nice jokes and this very entertaining movie.

5,5 to 6 stars out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm 57, the wife is 54, no kids or grandkids.

Frankly we thought the movie was really enjoyable, but we tried to see
it through the eyes of innocence. There were some parts I actually got
a laugh out of, even at my age. I loved the part where it was announced
to congratulate a dog on his son, son, daughter, daughter, son,
daughter.....just one of those clever parts that you have to pay
attention to catch.

I loved the opening credits and Shirley Bassey theme, straight from
James Bond and very clever.

Sometimes we need a change from the movies we watch. Movies are so much
more than cutting up teenagers in slasher movies, or great American
movies like Platoon where a young girl is raped by Americans, or the
great Spielberg in his Saving Private Ryan where American soldiers
shoot German soldiers who are trying to surrender. No, there wasn't any
'f' bombs, nobody was in a nude scene, nobody was decapitated, nobody
cheated on their spouses. You know the types of movies adults enjoy.

Yes, there are times I wish to watch a racy movie or a war movie,
however this was not one of those times. The wife and I desired a cute
movie that anybody of any age could watch, and this movie was one of
those.

Real quickly, I fell asleep during the original Cats and Dogs, but this
movie hooked me from the first and wouldn't let me off the hook. The
original lost me in the first 10 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
I am 19 and I loved the original when I was younger, and I wanted to
check this one out as I thought it would bring back memories, and it
did. After seeing such a low score, I didn't expect it to be that
great, but I found myself enjoying the film after a very short time.

The movie was actually pretty funny, and I don't normally find kids
movies very funny, but this was actually good as a sequel. No, it
wasn't amazing or even great, but it definitely wasn't bad and didn't
deserve such a low rating. I've seen much worse kids movies get higher
ratings than this.

You need to approach it with an open mind and remember that it is a
kids movie and you will enjoy this, especially if you love animals or
have a younger friend who loves animals to watch it with.

I have been waiting for years for a sequel to the original, and while
this one wasn't as great as I remember the original being, it was still
an enjoyable movie with many laughs, and familiar characters.

The special effects were definitely not the best I've seen, but there
isn't anything wrong with that, the movie wasn't trying to be mind
blowing, but the effects got the job done. Its a good sequel full of
laughs and fun for the family to enjoy.

If you can approach this movie with an open mind, and remember its not
an adult's film, but fun for the family, you will find plenty of
enjoyment and laughs for everyone in the family.
<|_=00=_|>
Mary wanted to see it-- her rule is, if it's got a cat in it, she wants
to see it. Quick summary: the trailer shows all the good scenes. The
first movie had been mildly cute, although forgettable. The highlight
of sequel should have been "more really cute dogs and cats." But they
decided to put an average (full grown) German Shepherd in the lead
(instead of the cute puppy from the first movie), and focused too much
on the pigeon (who, admittedly, did get most of the good lines). The
supporting cat was good, but had too little screen time. Most of the
plot was quotes from other movies, with cats and dogs playing the parts
(in particular, the opening title scene was a very well done version of
the old James Bond movie title sequences). Except for where it was a
direct parody of other movies, the plot was mostly perfunctory, and the
denouement was a long and mostly incomprehensible action scene. The 3-
D was both irrelevant, and also badly done. See it in 2D. If you see
it, do stick through the credits for the final scene.
<|_=00=_|>
What was my excuse to go to see Cats & Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty
Galore to the cinema? I am always interested in seeing well done
special effects...even if it is in deplorable movies, such as G-Force
or Transformers.In the case of Cats & Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty
Galore, the special effects are competent, and they are complemented
with the wonderful practical creations of Romaire Studios.Oh, and by
the way, I also have a special affection for dogs.However, nothing of
that helped me to enjoy this atrocious and deeply tedious film.

The original Cats & Dogs was not a gem of modern cinema, but it made me
laugh with its ingenious parody of the spy cinema, not to mention I
could also recognize the attitudes from cats and dogs I have met during
my life in the characters (of course I am not talking about the gadgets
and the action scenes, but about the brief moments where the authentic
nature from those animals was perceived).Now, as it usually happens,
the obligatory sequel looses the slight charm from the original movie
and increases the level of coarse humor, and the result is another
family movie where the story is replaced by noise and visual excesses.

Cats & Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore is composed by tired routines
of a stupid humor which do not provoke even one smile, and the
apparatus action sequences are very boring as well as irrelevant, and
they only work as a distraction on the slow way to the ending.It is a
mistake to expect too much from a film like this, but I always have the
slight hope of finding filmmakers who do not take the family cinema as
an excuse for reducing the intelligence from the screenplays to the
minimum, or ignoring the most basic precepts of cinematographic
narrative.Bad luck; I will keep searching.

As I said on the beginning of the commentary, the good special effects
are not enough to recommend Cats & Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore,
because the movie is authentically horrible and hateful.I think that
the animals from this film should have also been behind the cameras; I
am sure they would have made a much better job.
<|_=00=_|>
I repeat: This is a CHILDREN'S MOVIE!!

There's a lot of up and down votes on something that really wasn't
meant for critically snarky 30-somethings. Get a grip!

The First Movie was interesting because the concept of our pets being
part of shadow spy organizations that stayed out of human sight was an
eye-opener. Following up on the initial break-out is always an up-hill
slog.

This one was Okay. Crazed Cat Villain attempts to take over the world
by making all dogs go crazy so humans will put them all into kennels.
Both Canine and Feline Organizations get together to prevent disaster.
what follows is EASY and ENTERTAINING to a Child. . .

Repeat: 'Entertaining to a Child', not someone's Little Genius who
reads the New York Times for Bedtime Stories!

The references and gags put in for the accompanying adults are there to
LIGHTLY ENTERTAIN us by eliciting Pun-Groans or soft snickers. They ARE
NOT trying to give you a Comedy Central Sidetrack. The Adult is NOT the
Target Audience here. If they did that, IT WOULD NOT BE A KID MOVIE
ANYMORE!

Personally, I groaned at the Batman/Joker redux of Kitty Galore. Then I
smiled at the Dangerous Kitty doing the Silence of the Lambs sendup.

And the rest of the time, I just sat back and enjoyed a rambunctious,
Tom & Jerry style action romp simply because I wanted to be entertained
by something lighthearted.

And the Pigeon was a Hoot!

Simply put: A good clean Movie for Little Kids that won't put the adult
to sleep. Or even if you don't have Kids, and you want something light
and silly to watch that doesn't require thought, this is an easy
choice. Enough said.
<|_=00=_|>
Its my first movie review. I just had to review this movie because i
have read some harsh reviews about this hilarious movie. I think this
movie is good enough to be watched by the whole family.

Its funny as hell, i like the introduction of twinkles, using the
psychology Hannibal Lecter uses to pick peoples buttons, and also the
introduction of the pigeon. the casting was also good, i think the
actors were good enough for their roles.

If you don't think spy next door is bad, then you would love this
movie. its like an everyday spy movie (like spy kids) aimed at kids.

It has its villain and the side kick. 

I really don't think this film was made to win any awards, but i think
its a befitting sequel for the first one. just watch it with you family
and enjoy.
