
As a film maker and former film school professor, I have a lot of my
students as friends on Facebook. Many of them, most notably ones of
Asian descent, came out full of vitriol and condemnation of this film,
many of them before they had even seen it, as did a lot of the popular
media.

IGNORE THEM! This is Cameron Crowe back in form. The film in no way
disrespects Hawaiian culture or ignores its aboriginal and Asian
populations, in fact it celebrates them. Emma Stone as a character
named Allison Ng ("My dad was half Chinese and half Hawaiian... so I'm
1/4 Hawaiian") had to be played by a white actress in that she is
referencing exactly that desire of some white people to pawn themselves
off as ethic. She does it marvelously. 

In fact the whole cast is amazing, with a script that absolutely
sparkles, especially in its frequent nods to non-verbal communication.
The last, most moving and completely wordless scene is worth the price
of admission. Danielle Rose Russell's performance in this scene is
breathtaking, and she is completely luminous through out, even though
she has only a handful of lines.

Others with only handfuls of lines who make the film really shine are
John Krazinski, Bill Murray and Alex Baldwin. The three leads are all
amazing, with Stone a little over the top (tho appropriate for her
character) and I think this is as good a work as Rachel McAdams has
ever done.

I have to admit that the plotting of the whole military contractor
subplot had a few too many little deus ex machina bows tied around it,
but it was all maguffin for the beautiful insights into human heart and
its connections anyway. And not nearly as preposterous as the
embarrassing Elizabethtown.

I put a lot of store in IMDb ratings, and I have never seen them as far
off the mark as they are with this film. I am a progressive, and expect
cultural respect from Hollywood, but this may be another sad case of
the hidden ability for random accusations of political incorrectness to
cow the media.
<|_=00=_|>
Aloha has absolutely no idea what it wants to be. If I had to count,
I'd say there are about 10 subplots in this movie which is about 9 too
many for a romcom. Sure, it's based on real-life, but that's no excuse
to make a terrible movie. It's a chore to watch this thing, it took me
three separate sittings before I can make it to the end without falling
asleep or dying of boredom. Its tone is probably the worst offender.
Like I said, it has no idea what it wants to be, so it tries to be
everything. A love story, a political statement, a bittersweet comedy,
a tense drama-mystery about a guy trying to control space - it does not
mesh well at all. I had forgotten Alec Baldwin was even in the movie at
one point, and that was probably the most interesting storyline in the
damn thing. It's frustrating because there is a good story in there!
Somewhere! I think. It's hard to tell with all the surrounding sh*t. 

The cast is the only good thing about this movie. It's just a shame
watching them have to recite this terrible dialogue to one another.
They even have chemistry at times which helps during the cringe-y
moments, but convincing acting doesn't make a bad script good. It just
makes a bad script... somewhat watchable. But don't watch it. It sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
I sat stunned as the credits began to roll. "What the bleep WAS that?"
I asked my wife. "What just happened?" She shrugged and smiled. I took
that to mean she didn't know, either. 

Nor was our confusion unfounded. The filmmakers threw into "Aloha" just
about every plot device they could find, hoping at least one of them
would work, and in one or two cases they succeeded, but my God, at what
terrible price?

Forget Emma Stone not being Hawaiian, although that actually did start
to bug me. Far more important is that for the first third of the film,
she played her part as if she had just shot meth. Many lines were
delivered so rapidly (and perkily) that neither my wife nor I could
understand what she had said. Body language, gestures, even breathing
all way too fast. Creepy and unsettling. And she was all over Brad
Cooper in a way that makes "cartoonish" seem somehow inadequate as a
description. 

But of course, she's part-Hawaiian, possibly from the Scandinavian
portion of the Big Island, so of course she saves the big deal with the
native Hawaiians to enable the building of the new industrial plants
for the not-Space-X CEO, played by a Bill Murray whose face seemed
permanently caught in a Vise Grip, possibly because he was as
inappropriately cast as if he had been tapped to play Queen Elizabeth.
And of course he's decided to conceal inside his new South Pacific
satellite a single nuclear warhead, because I guess that would be a big
win. And Stone has warned Cooper (who acts as if "corporate tool" is
tattooed on his forehead) that Bill Murray is weaponizing space just as
the wise yet simple island natives feared, so when he grunts and
twitches his eyebrows to indicate his intent to Do His Job she dumps
him, in a scene that screams "you're way better off without her." 

So we have the wise-primitives-trying-to-stop-evil-modernity-from-
ruining-our-planet plot, and the will-they-or-won't-they plot, and
Rachel McAdams as the One He Left Behind plot, but now things get
really confusing. Because Cooper suddenly turns into James Bond, wiping
out the Chinese attempt to hack the satellite (which they do because,
uh...) and then he and his fat buddy (because fat guys and computer
guys are the same thing in Hollywood) hack the satellite themselves and
stop Bill Murray from taking over the world with his single nuclear
warhead by essentially distributing plutonium dust over half the
planet. Thereby killing millions of people. But we don't get to see
that part; that's the hook for the sequel.

But we're not done yet! We have to throw in the general-blowing-his-
stack plot, and the "you mean I'm a father?" plot, and oh Lord I'm sure
I forgot a plot or two. I had to go home and hide. What a mess! It was
like the execrable "Cannonball Run" with Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise,
except those guys actually hired James Bond (Roger Moore), they didn't
have one guy play his part and all the others to boot. 

In the midst of this polymelic chopped salad of a movie, three things
stood out as actual redeeming features. First, Rachel McAdams plays her
character perfectly, and it's a well-drawn character. Second, her
husband, played by John Krasinski, was equally excellent in a very
understated part that got the only intentional laughs of the film. And
finally, their daughter, played by Danielle Rose Russell, showed an
emoting capacity which, at her age, portends an excellent future. Those
things worked, and could have been the whole plot line of a much better
movie. 

The rest stunk.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is somehow all over the place, threads begin but do not end,
connections exist but how and why is not explained. I felt like I was
watching a movie that is great inside the head of the writer/director
but he knows the story to well and forgets to tell us half of it.It's
like it is trying to be everything for everybody and while doing that
failing in all aspects. The whole military plot thing is strange, lots
of people are just there and we are never told why or even who they
are. 

This is not a feel good movie, it is a feel strange movie leaving you
with lots of questions, the main one being why?
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't really a rom-com. It's the story of a broken man trying to
pick up the pieces after a contractor-deployment injury left him 18
broken bones; there's a line in the plane in the first few minutes that
indicate he might have lost more, which changes the entire story and
nature of possible romantic encounters. Romantic attachment is part of
the story but it's way more serious than rom-com. The kind of comedy
isn't as light as the "com" in "rom- com" either.

It's a strong film with a light mystical side to it, courtesy of a
magical child-character and Emma Stone's character.

Peripherally it sheds light on the privatization of the military, and
gives the viewer in inside view of Air Force culture in a place cut off
from the mainland.

The acting is solid, the plot is inextricable from the setting, and
there is a pretty clear plot.
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday I watched "Aloha," and loved it. I've watched it twice, and I
want to watch it again. I don't understand how it could have been
panned repeatedly by the critics. "Aloha" is quirky, often funny,
sweet, and endearing, even though it's a sprawling, rambling, story
with intentionally cinema-verite-flavored camera work at times.
Unpredictable, it's not your typical romcom! 

Set in the magnificent and mystical landscapes of Hawaii, with the
soothing backdrop of lilting Hawaiian music, it's simply unforgettable!
And, the cast is stellar: Bradley Cooper, Emma Stone, John Krasinski,
Alec Baldwin, Bill Murray, and so many other top performances. We need
more films that demand our attention and our intelligence, which show
us characters who struggle with ambiguity, recognize life's joys,
mysteries, and heartbreaks, and yet still manage to keep their
integrity intact. This film will have you talking afterwards ~ and at
the least, it will make you happy! Thank you, Cameron Crowe.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a cinematic mess. The movie was disorganized and filled
with subplots. There really wasn't a hard plot. If you want to be
pulled in several directions without a destination, then this is the
movie for you. There was one neat foreshadowing scene that led up to an
interaction between Brian Gilcrest, played by Bradley Cooper, and Woody
Woodside, played by John Krasinski. This scene and the scene between
Brian Gilcrest and Grace, played by Danielle Rose Russell, near the end
were the only redeeming quality to the film; otherwise the movie would
have received one star. Do yourself a favor and wait until its been
released on DVD for about a year before giving it a look. Caution: you
may still regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie based a trailer, so I expected it to be a romance
of some sorts. 

I have absolutely no idea what was going on, this plot was all over the
place, and just flat out awkward. Why in the world would a man be
hanging out with his ex girlfriend 13 years with her and her husband
and family I still can't get. The beginning of the movie sets it off to
be a serious but the blatantly thrown down the drain when the taps are
being played and they are talking with complete disrespect and soon
everything was just a joke. 

Don't watch this disaster, I am still confused, and with all Hawaiian
myth non sense.
<|_=00=_|>
Cameron Crowe's authentic voice and epic lack of cynicism is as
refreshing in Aloha as it was in his cult classic Say Anything. That
this masterpiece of the emotional journey of life and love is panned by
critics is a testament to how jaded, broken, cynical and pathologically
narcissistic the gatekeepers of taste and political correctness have
become. Emma Stone was a brilliant casting decision, and she delivered
with all the energy, enthusiasm, and intensity of a roman candle, a
perfect counterpoint to Cooper's darkness. She illuminates him, and by
the end of the movie he finally sees himself, his life, and her in the
fullness of that light. For folks whining that Stone didn't look Asian
I submit that we are all mutts in this country and there are many, many
people whose ethnic heritage doesn't register visually. What Stone
brought to the role should be evidence enough of the brilliance of her
casting. Anyone who saw Crazy Stupid Love would see this as a
no-brainer. Emma Stone, hands down. The chemistry with Cooper was
perfect, and Cooper is emerging as THE leading man in the very best of
contemporary cinema. Rachel McAdams and John Krasinski were an amazing
duo of supporting actors. Krasinski's solid performance as an emotive
but speechless husband was another real treat. Stellar comedy cameos
from Alec Baldwin, Bill Murray, and Danny McBride. IGNORE THE CRITICS,
this is a GREAT FILM !!!
<|_=00=_|>
It is not often that I see a movie that leaves me feeling good, but
this one did. The characters were likable people. The relationships
between the characters were interesting. The plot was simple and sweet.
It is a romantic comedy, so it's easy to see how things are going to
turn out, but the ending was still a pleasant surprise. There are
plenty of things throughout the movie that made me laugh. 

I love the cast. Bill Murray is an all time favorite. Rachael McAdams
is adorable as always. John Krazinski is handsome and silently funny.
Emma Stone is beautiful and goofy. Bradley Cooper is hot and
complicated. What more could you want in a romantic comedy?
