
I still remember the feeling; that aura of anticipation that i felt
when the announcement was made. Anchorman 2 was in production. Finally,
big Ron was on his way back!!! The magical news team where going to be
gracing the big screen and i couldn't have been any more excited. 

The first film was very close to comedic perfection; it had everything
that was needed and much like any film that you thoroughly enjoy you
want to see more, but in the back of your mind you don't want the film
to become tainted. 

And although this film has its droves of fans, for me it was incredibly
disappointing. They took it too far. The stupidity in the first film
was perfectly balanced. It was funny. This however was over the top.
There are certain scenes that are very uncomfortable to watch as they
try so hard to make you laugh. And as the ridiculousness accelerated,
my gut began to churn and any smile that wanted to force it's way out
to stay loyal to the first film was obliterated and all that was left
was me,- insert summary here -. 

Disappointment is too feeble of an explanation to how gutted i was at
the way this film played out. So much of the first film was
regurgitated. First couple of carbon copy moments i tried to ignore and
enjoy but it eventually became so obvious and so desperate. The
continual "by the beard of...", like quotations from Ron was tedious.
And the shark....well i'll let you see that farcical moment for
yourselves.

I tried, i really tried to enjoy this film, and yes, it had it's fair
share of moments that made me laugh, but it is nothing more than a
moneymaker. And it will do its job. But that doesn't stop it from being
a massive let down. Sequels tend to work when they are planned, not
when they are demanded.
<|_=00=_|>
I am extremely disappointed with this movie. I was a huge fan of the
original and can quote you every single line from that movie however,
my expectations weren't too high for this movie because I knew it
couldn't be as good as the original. But I was not expecting this movie
to be this bad 

The story line was awful. The parts of it didn't fit and it kept
jumping from scene to scene. They tried to use Brick a little more
which in my opinion failed miserably. There were many lulls within the
movie. At one point, I actually thought about walking out.

I can't believe they actually released this movie. Did they not watch
it again themselves?

Will Ferrell, you have destroyed your magnum opus.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the things I expected to feel when I walked out of the cinema
after seeing this film, disgusted that I paid money to watch it was not
one of them. 

No effort has been made to actually make this film any good, or any
actual sequel to the first. The writers have just crammed it with as
much stuff as they could that made the first film so brilliant, and all
they succeeded in doing was making it an overblown, awkward film that
leaves you knowing that during every seen they're just trying to force
a laugh out of you. Its also been a long time that I was so consciously
aware that the actors are just performing lines for a camera, there's
nothing natural about any of them. It all feels painfully scripted, all
the one liners blatantly placed just to drag a laugh kicking and
screaming from your lips. 

The last 45 minutes goes off on such a bizarre tangent I honestly had
no idea what the hell was going on or what the purpose of any of it
was. 

Truly disappointed with this film, and incredibly annoyed by the
knowledge that it'll be a box office smash purely because the first one
is such a legendary film.
<|_=00=_|>
**Before I write my review, I want to make it known that I went into
Anchorman 2 expecting over the topness, funny one liners, plenty of
gags, and generally having low expectations given the trailers and over
advertisement.**

Despite having already low expectations, I was STILL disappointed. 

Happy Days coined the term "jumping the shark," generally used for a
television show that is declining in quality and attempts to use an
outrageous plot device to keep viewer's interest. Anchorman 2 has not
only jumped the shark, but it has given us a modern update to that
term, "Bottle Feeding the shark." Not wanting to believe the movie
could be so atrocious, I am actually trying to convince myself the
shark feeding sequence was the film poking fun at itself and realizing
it was terrible. If that was the case, it's a hilarious satirical
movie. If not, it's a steaming pile of dung, which I suspect is the
case.

THE GOOD:

- The celebrity cameos were mildly, and I mean very mildly entertaining
but they came far too late to save the movie.

- A few laugh out loud sequences (the first 30 minutes). 

- Ummmmm....Nothing else really. :/

THE BAD:

- Just not a funny movie despite trying so hard. Forced humor and a
truly awful script written by Will Ferrell. It seems like Will Ferrell
sat in a focus group of adolescent males aged 12-17 and put whatever
they deemed "funny" into his script. Plenty of penis and vagina jokes
for you potty humor enthusiasts out there!

- The black jokes and black dinner sequence were clichéd and boring.
Everyone has heard a white person or comedian imitate a black person
thousands of times and seeing Will Ferrell do it is not much funnier.
I'm not easily offended, but more easily offended people would feel
uncomfortable with these scenes in the movie. 

- No quotable quotes. Anyone who saw Anchorman #1 can at LEAST rattle
off a, "Stay Classy San Diego," or a "60% of the time it works every
time." quote. No such luck here; there are no memorable quotes or
sayings in this one. There was also a feeble attempt to recreate the
"sex panther" scene with Brian's secret drawer, but it was forced and
stupid. You can bet that there will be a product line of Anchorman
condoms coming out though as a result...

- The film randomly tried to get serious with its whole, "The American
people deserve the truth, etc." line at the end. I agree with the
sentiment, but it was poorly placed in the movie and came off as a
forced message. 

- Bad script, unfunny characters, and the same tired situations are
basically what sunk this film. Nothing good about it in all honesty. 

THE UGLY:

- Brick aka Steve Carell. Straight up. He was tolerable in the first
film because his randomness was well timed and just so out of the blue
that all you could do was laugh. In the sequel it is flat out annoying.
I have never felt so much disdain for a fictional character in my life.
From the first "death" scene to the last "marriage" scene I despised
every second of Steve Carell's screen time. Whoever thought to give
Brick a love interest should be exiled from film making and possibly
planet earth for all of eternity. I guess it was their poor attempt to
give Brick's character another dimension other than just seeming like a
retard the whole time. Ugh, his love interest was a mix of Brick and
Kristen Wiig's character from Bridesmaids. To sum it up a combo of
awkward and ANNOYING. 

If it weren't for Brick being reintroduced in this film, I'd probably
give it 4 MAYBE even 5 stars, but I actually felt mentally abused by
how annoying his character was. Long story short, I could probably
write a novel on how awful this film was, but this review satisfies my
need to vent. If you value your time and don't want to waste it, do NOT
see this film. If you must see it; Don't waste $10 or even a matinée
admission price on this garbage, just red box it.
<|_=00=_|>
The best part of this movie was Kanye Wests cameo. And I don't even
like Kanye. I know this movie is supposed to be over the top. I was a
big fan of the first anchorman. But this was awful. I would've walked
out 30 minutes in if I was not with a group of people. Turns out we
were all thinking the same thing when we talked afterward. The jokes
are horrible. About 10 minutes in enough jokes missed that I knew this
movie was off. There were very few likable characters. Brick was
repulsive this time around. His scenes were painful to watch. The final
scene with the battle royal was horrible. It wasn't funny and was drawn
out too long. There was about 10 different news crews each with
celebrity cameos that all missed. Oh, and Harrison Ford turned into a
werewolf. I'm not kidding. I can take a joke, and love the humor of the
likes of this comedy crew in general but there really is no reason to
watch this movie. The first one had tons of quotable lines. This one,
nothing. And it was about 45 minutes too long. A punishing movie to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The words escape me when it comes to reviewing this movie...before I
start, you should know, i'm a massive comedy fan, and enjoyed the first
anchorman quite a lot, and also that this is my first review because
the disappointment and anger this movie caused made me have to write a
review...this movie was the biggest waste of my time and money, and had
I not been with company,I would've left half way through. 

To be fair to the movie, the first 1 hour was okay, promising, and had
a few laughs, but as the movie went on it descended into utter garbage,
cheap humour and extremely drawn out scenes. The 'plot' was
just...insane, I literally couldn't believe what I was watching, the
movie was mainly just shouting and stupid noises, the same joke drawn
out 100 times, no plot, no substance, no nothing. When I checked IMDb,
I was honestly expecting to see somewhere between 3-4, I nearly fell
out my seat when I saw 7.2, this movie probably would've made more
sense if you cut up the scenes into a complete random order. Truly a
1/10 movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The jokes are not funny. Will Ferrell is stale. A waste of time.
Unfortunately, it looks as though this script was written while smoking
newly legalized weed and a parody of a parody is what this turned out
to be. 

I find it very hard to believe the ratings on this movie and I am
convinced, more than I have ever been before, that many ratings are
simply a figment of marketing and that many movie viewers knee-jerk
react to 'names' and slick advertising to approve of junk that under
ordinary circumstances they would reject immediately. The Hollywood
marketing machine has created a dud.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so glad I didn't have to pay to see this movie and I had a gift
card instead. This movie was terrible to say the least. I had very high
expectations for this movie because I was such a huge fan of the first
Anchorman. It seemed like the entire movie was just made up on the spot
and filmed and there was no rehearsing at all. I'm sure for a lot of
people this was a highly anticipated movie and instead it was absolute
crap. I have advised all of my friends to save their money for a better
movie and rent it when it comes out if you must watch it. I definitely
will not be buying this movie when it comes out. Very disappointed.
Just do yourself a favor and go see Wolf of Wallstreet or something
else. Worst Will Ferrell movie in a LONG time.
<|_=00=_|>
AM2 is one of the biggest disappointments for a sequel I can ever
recall seeing on the big screen. AM1 was silly, and sophomoric but it
held together based on a cohesive, simple story line that was made
funny by the characters. AM2 is a complete cash grab and I hope that
anyone associated with this film is ashamed for what they helped
produce. This movie is not funny, it is not well made, it is not well
written. It has some of the worst acting, forced acting, and under
utilized acting you will ever see in a film. The cameos were too little
too late, the racial jokes were distasteful and old. Farrell blew up
everything he could from AM1 to fill time.. Sex panther, News Anchor
Fight, etc. etc. Please tell anyone you know that hasn't seen this, not
to. It shouldn't make another dollar, its that bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I first want to say, the original was a classic comedy to me, I was
excited for this since becoming aware of a sequel last summer. An hour
in to the movie, I realized the plot (which really wasn't all that
necessary) wasn't going to save the movie from a lack of originality.
The characters are the same only more caricatures of themselves
(especially Steve Carrell's part). At the end of it, it felt like a
high school reunion with people you realize were more sad than
endearingly dorky. Will Farrell over acted. The Sea World bit was
especially difficult, I guess it was supposed to be funny about a guy
that never really had anything losing everything, I just didn't find it
anything but lost. It totally magnified the movie for what it was.. a
re-run of a cheap and overblown sitcom movie.

It should have been left well alone while it was nostalgic in the first
movie.. the sequel more than outlived it's welcome.
