
I just saw a screening of this movie last night. I didn't know a thing
about it when I sat down. By the end of the movie I was sitting in my
seat and staring at the screen with hollow eyes.

I looked at my girlfriend and our faces said: "No way... but... no,
couldn't be... good god!" 

The use of real vs. recreated footage gets you. The sounds in the real
footage and recordings will REALLY get you.

Do yourself a favor and don't research the film before you go in. This
is a movie that needs to be taken in with a blank and open mind to be
appreciated.
<|_=00=_|>
A few weeks ago I went to see an independent horror film that was
honestly one of the scariest viewing experiences I have ever been apart
of. That film is the monster hit Paranormal Activity. Now we have yet
another unique viewing experience, this one is The Fourth Kind.

I have never been a huge believer about visitors from other worlds,
UFOs, and conspiracy theories, but I must say that if there was ever a
film that made me question if only for a second that their might be
life out there somewhere, it would be this movie. It starts off with
actress Mila Jovovich introducing herself and giving a preface to the
film. She says that the film is based entirely on first person
encounters and is backed up with evidence both in audio, visual, and in
testimonial form.

We are then introduced to Dr. Tyler, the woman who Jovovich is
portraying. She is being interviewed by the director Olatunde
Osunsanmi. This interview is broken up and played at different points
of the film. The look on Dr. Tyler's face alone gives you the
impression that the story we are going to be told has obviously wreaked
havoc on her life.

We begin after the death of her husband whose mysterious death has yet
to be fully resolved. She is working on a sleep study in the town of
Nome, Alaska where some of the residents have been telling her about a
certain disturbances in the night. One in particular involving an owl
outside their windows.

Without ruining too much of the plot and some of the "good" parts, I
was pretty impressed with this film. I liked how much emphasis they put
on the evidence. Osunsanmi obviously wants there to be no doubt that
this movie is perceived not just as a movie but as a document. It's
hard to believe that this is based on actual events seeing that some of
the "archival evidence" is so startling and shocking. We have all seen
videos and pictures of UFOs but these videos and audio clips are by far
the most unsettling.

How could this story with all of it's evidence go unnoticed? Wouldn't
it have helped Dr. Tyler's case? This so called evidence is so powerful
and so unsettling, were it real I would be led to believe a lot of
people around the world would reconsider that existence of intelligent
life on other worlds.

I've read plenty of reviews calling this film a fraud, a let down, and
a disappointment. I on the other hand thought that this was unique,
compelling, and disturbing. It's not the scariest movie ever made, but
there are certain images that will stay with you for a while. I have
given up caring about whether or not this is a real case or if it is
partially or entirely fabricated. It's fun, scary, and different. In
the end it's a movie, a movie is supposed to entertain and make you
think.
<|_=00=_|>
Why do so many people feel like a movie has to be a life changing
event? This movie is a great way to spend 1 1/2 hours. The acting is
very good. The "real" vs acting element is well done. Milla does a
wonderful job drawing in the audience. The story is fun & the concept
is entertaining.

Some movies are done just to provide entertainment. Nothing more,
nothing less. This is one of those films.

Go with a good attitude and enjoy. There are no life lessons to learn.
There is no great revelation. Just go for fun.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I really delayed seeing this movie because of all the crappy reviews I
read on here and in other places. How it was all a hoax and that the
filmmakers must think we're idiots and it ruined the whole premise and
blah blah blah.

But I just watched it and I honestly can't understand what they're all
so pissy about.

Yeah, the 'real' footage is fake, and the viral campaign to make
'Abigail Tyler' internet-real failed. It really, really doesn't matter
though. This movie fully accomplished its goal of being super creepy
and very unique and entertaining. If the critics would get off their
high horse for a minute and actually watch the film then maybe they'd
appreciate what they're seeing just a little bit more.

The interweaving of the 'real' footage with the 'movie' footage was a
fantastically creative way to drive home the emotional edge that the
filmmakers were going for, and it worked superbly. And fake or not, the
story is realistic enough to be at least somewhere within the bounds of
plausibility for our imagination to make us cringe just a little bit
more than we usually do with sci-fi/horror films about zombies or other
things that are clearly impossible. 

Its obviously not the greatest movie ever made, and Mila Jovovitch
isn't the greatest actress ever, but she played her part well, as did
everyone else. 

Overall this film is very much worth watching, despite what the critics
have said. Very entertaining and will definitely leave you thinking
about it for a while afterward. Fake or not, what more can you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
The Fourth Kind goes to great lengths to convince you that everything
in the film has actually happened. The commercials for the film claim
it to be a true story, and the movie opens with Milla Jovovich vouching
for the truth of the story. No "based on a true story". Milla Jovovich
suddenly appears at the beginning of the story amid a spinning camera
to inform you, in an all too familiar PSA style, that "Hi, I'm Milla
Jovovich, I'm an actor portraying a psychologist". Long story short,
her and the director inform you that what you are about to watch is
"real" and "serious".

Then the movie plays, and you get shots of the Milla playing her
character sharing split screen with the "real" archive footage. The
archive footage works for a while, until the story decides to kick in
and the footage gets more bizarre. In a method used more conservatively
by shows like The X-Files, and films like paranormal activity, the
camera cuts out during any action and you get "VHS blur" that obscures
the entire screen. The entire screen is obscured for upwards of 30
seconds at a time, and it becomes obvious that they are abusing this
effect to avoid using actual special effects.

Actual on-screen special effects are poorly done. They are obviously
computer edited, and what's worse is that they consist of effects
easily available in consumer level products like Adobe After-effects
and Sony Vegas.

The sheriff who works against Milla throughout the film is a terrible
actor. Enough said. Milla herself looks more like an owl than the owl
aliens her clients report seeing. The film also adds lots of
nonsensical morals and metaphors that are completely pointless. I won't
spoil anything, but the aliens at one point say "I am... I am ______",
blank being the most obvious thing they could say. Of course, this
metaphorical plot line is dropped instantly, just to make sure this
film has no depth.

And then after several scenes of what is supposed to be Milla
Jovovich's character in real life (who looks more like a crack addict
than an abductee) the film abruptly ends. We get another PSA scene
where Milla Jovovich gives you facts about FBI visits to the town from
the film completely taken out of context, (She implies the visits
related to abduction, when in fact they related to drinking and
exposure to elements related incidents) and then proceeds to inform you
that made-up missing little girl was never found.

What would truly be an emotional ending is, however, in no way
emotional the second you learn that the film and all the characters
were completely fabricated. There is no evidence that any of the
characters exist. No one in Nome remembers any of these events. Nome's
sheriff which the film informs you couldn't be reached for comment, was
in fact reached for comment, in which he reinforced that the movie was
nonsense and truly a stain on the town that would hurt tourism.

In the end, it's a truly week film that's only shining grace is that it
is a true story.

The only problem being that it isn't.

The worst part of the entire film however, is when the credits roll and
the film offers no disclaimer to inform you that it was fictional. The
film effectively lies to you. The end.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rather interesting movie, and it deals with a phenomena that
we all are more or less familiar with - alien abductions. Now whether
or not you believe in this is entirely up to you, but give this movie a
chance, if nothing else then for its entertainment value.

"The Fouth Kind" is a unique mix of documentary and ordinary movie, and
it worked out well, though sometimes it was a bit too much with the
actual footage, it was disruptive in some odd way.

The story is quite interesting and compelling, and it grabs a hold of
you and keeps you nailed down till the very end of the movie. The
characters were believable and well portrayed.

There were some pretty nice effects in the movie as well.

Now, the thing about the movie is whether this is real or just a hoax.
And even if it just is a hoax, the movie leaves you with unanswered
questions and a sense of brooding mysticism.

I found the movie to be thoroughly entertainment and good for some
discussion afterwards. So despite of your approach whether aliens and
alien abductions are real or not, sit down and watch this movie. It is
good.
<|_=00=_|>
*May, may not, contain spoilers* Hi. So I'm from Nome.

I, and most people I know from here, have avoided this movie like the
plague just because of how inherently retarded this piece of BS was
going to be.

So, to clear things up, since I've seen lots of discussion about how
the movie, even if a hoax, leaves things "unexplained" concerning
disappearances, here you go..

Nome has a high rate of alcohol and substance abuse (less than .75
square miles, with 7+ bars and 5+ liquor stores). During the winter
(when most of these "disappearances" occur) snowmobiling is a main form
of transportation for many in town. Nome is also a "village hub" for
many surrounding communities (which have a population of 100 or less,
generally).

What happens often is people like to go out, get drunk, hop on their
snowmachine (snowmobile to those in the lower 48), and will wreck or
break down somewhere out on the tundra, miles from town, in dangerous
weather. Naturally, these people perish, and it may take days before
someone sends out S&R (Search and Rescue), unless they've filed
something with the State Troopers giving them their travel plans, and
when they plan to return (in which case S&R is sent out when they
haven't arrived).

They also go "disappearing" when they travel across Norton Sound (part
of the Bering Sea) pack ice, to fast travel to the other side of the
peninsula. In break up conditions (when the ice is moving out, and
there is "rotten ice"), they sometimes break through the ice, into the
Bering Sea, and again.. they are gone.

Nome (not just Nome, but the Bering Sea coast in general) has a high
rate of suicide, which also explains some disappearances. Nome used to
have a jetti for boats to pass through, and distraught people would
jump into it. Its almost impossible to get out of, even if you're a
strong swimmer. That is the reason it was graveled in/over between
2004-2006.

There is no amount of UFO BS anywhere in Nome, among any citizens (you
may find quite a few Big Brother government conspiracy theorists
though).

Trivial topics of note - Nome does not have trees (except for 60 miles
inland, along Council Road); there is no owl population to speak of
(except again, many miles outside of town, along Council Road or Teller
Road); we have a police department and State Troopers Post, not
sheriffs or deputies; probably 1 in 30 houses in Nome would be as
"nice" as those portrayed in the movie.

Etc.

This is a major irritation. And the movie was not even good (as has
been said, poor dialogue/acting, misinformation, distracting
camera/special effects work).

Want an idea of what Nome is actually like? See www.nomenugget.net
Thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was outright terrible. I am amazed at some of the comments
and reviews. It's hard to imagine what people see in this piece of
garbage. The writing was bad, most of the acting was bad, the story was
bad. The choices they made in presenting the material were also
unbelievably bad. Showing two actors portraying the same scenes for
much of the film was just... I can't even find the words to describe
how misguided that was.

The thing is, I was totally willing to suspend disbelief and watch this
with an open mind, as I knew in advance it was about alien abductions
and therefore would likely have some major silliness in it. But they
didn't throw me a single bone in terms of something - anything to cling
onto to keep the story believable and engrossing. By halfway through
the movie, it was clear that "scary" or "thrilling" was completely out
of the question, but I would have settled for "halfway compelling" or
at the very least "entertaining". Sadly that wasn't in the cards.

There was only one thing in the entire film that I liked, and that I
found creepy. The so-called abductees kept saying they saw an owl
outside their window (and it was really creepy when they'd get this
look of horror on their face and say, "That's not an owl!!"). The use
of the owl as similar in appearance to the typical alien face was, in
my opinion, a brilliant move - and it really was creepy. Too bad it was
wasted on an otherwise offensively bad film.
<|_=00=_|>
At the start of the film you are told this is all true, though clearly
it isn't. I don't really understand the point of that. It's fair enough
to imply it's real but to outright lie about it, that's just a bit
desperate.

I quite enjoyed the movie to start with but it falls apart towards the
end. The thing is nobody knows what Sumerian sounds like, it's not like
you can look at the alphabet and say "that letter looks like an oooh
sound" as the writers seem to think. It's a shame that the lazy hacks
that put this one together couldn't be bothered to fix this huge and
easily remedied plot hole by using Egyptian which would have worked
just as well. It didn't spoil the movie for me, but it did serve as a
good example of how badly conceived the whole thing was. No wonder they
had to go for a stunt to sell it to the audience.

Likewise the twist doesn't work either. It's a shame because I thought
this would be quite a good film but yet again I expected too much.
<|_=00=_|>
The reason for the abysmal review is the fact that the film is sold as
being "reality" based. When i say reality based i mean based on actual
events, even events that could be construed as debatable. This is
simply not the case here. This is an entirely fictional film for which
Universal pictures has paid a settlement for having placed fake news
stories in order to sell this film. This is a new low in film
marketing. I know the excuse will be that films are in and of
themselves a suspension of belief but do we need to be lied to now in
order to achieve this? I submit NO! If i were to simply review this
film knowing in advance that it was pure fiction i would have watched
an entirely different film. A film that was slow to develop and only
contained a few moments of actual horror. There were a few fearful
moments, a feat easily achieved, but largely this was due to the
illusion of reality perpetrated by the introduction of the film by Mila
(Lead Female role) as being based on actual events. Sadly this seems to
be a trend in the horror genre that i fear may continue simply because
of the gap between when the general public can unearth the truth about
such films and the money generated in the meantime. Suffice to say
anyone reading this review before having seen this film will
undoubtedly have a quite different reaction to those yet unaware of the
films true fictional nature. I might also add that i am a fan of this
genre. I enjoyed the movie Communion with Chris Walken purely for the
subject matter despite its flaws as a film. Perhaps those who see this
film knowing in advance that it is a marketing ploy will find greater
enjoyment. I myself was not amused with the deception. Don't take me
for a fool, i don't take at face value and abduction story as pure
truth but some basis in reality might have been more acceptable to pure
lies. There are of course countless encounters of the fourth kind
retold by real people to be debated and discussed. The only thing i
feel like discussing about this film is how many people will see it
before they know the ridiculous deception perpetrated by Universal
pictures.
