
As far as the end result... ...the film completely fell flat across the
board. I have nothing against the four leads. I more or less blame the
writers, director and the studios choice of direction for the new
Ghostbusters.

The acting is some of the most stiff and cookie cutter I have ever
seen. There were times when it really sounded like they were reading
their lines. The actors did NOT mesh well at all and their interaction
with all of the blue and green screen effects was lifeless and
clueless.

I was just lost with the approach on their attempted humor. I mean,
it's bad. I don't know what panel sat around the table reading the
script and laughed at it, but I hope they never do again.

The effects were horrible. Every time, which was A LOT, they used a
green screen, I found myself taken away from the movie.

The film constantly contradicts it's own established continuity. One
minute they can't kill the ghosts, only contain them, the next, they
can. Just ridiculous.

They even added a segment to the movie early on that shows the four
girls poking fun at all of the hate for the film. I just don't think
the studio gets it. 

More mocking of the very people they expect to pay top dollar for their
product.

Despite all of the sexist remarks towards the movie, the movie itself
is EXTREMELY sexist against men and borderline racist. All men are
portrayed as fools in the movie and in order to kill the final villain
they have to shoot him in the crotch. 

It almost seems the team behind the film knew how stereotypical and
sexist their movie was, so they capitalized on the sexism against the
film in order to hide that.

I honestly recommend wearing a padded glove when you watch this, IF you
watch this. I have never face-palmed so many times during a movie in my
life. I would not suggest this film to anyone except maybe children
under ten years old and even then, it would simply be for a cartooned
3D experience.

I wish I could find positives because I dislike being so negative about
a film. I understand completely the amount of work that goes into
something like this. Chris Hemsworth was probably the best part of this
believe or not. I could see him leading a team of his own Ghostbusters
in another version if written correctly.

But I can't help but quote Jurassic Park concerning the very idea of
this film.

The filmmakers "were so preoccupied with whether or not they could that
they didn't stop to think if they should."

I really did try to give this film a chance despite all of the negative
hype. But, the film was not funny and does not stand on it's own.
Honestly, the only thing that intrigued me was seeing the cameos from
some of the original cast.

I will add that if you were thinking you had seen the majority of the
movie throughout all of the trailers, various clips, TV spots, etc.,
you would have been thinking correctly. Sony used all of what they
considered to be the best material in all of the promotional releases.
Let that be your red flag considering how poor the trailers were.

If someone were to ask me if they should go see it, I would say, "No,
but if you are curious, just wait for it to become available for
Internet streaming."

I don't think people will walk away from this movie afraid of ghosts. I
imagine they walk away afraid of the movie and more so, the people who
thought it was wise to make it in the first place.

There is some irony here. Ghostbusters 2016 has literally become a
ghost. It was dead on arrival.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with an open mind hoping that it would not be as
bad as the trailers and TV spots suggest. It is. I really wanted this
movie to surprise me, to make me laugh to make me care for the
characters and have some investment in the story, but it failed to
achieve any of that. What I saw was a two hour mess of a movie. An
unfunny, poorly written, poorly edited, contrived cash-in on a beloved
classic which has some of the poorest dialogue and worst performances
I've seen in a while. The computer generated effects were like
something out of a live action Disney picture. The music, in particular
the theme tune was uninspiring and added no impact or energy to the
movie. I honestly can't think of any redeeming qualities that this film
has. After waiting so long for a new Ghostbusters film this comes as a
major disappointment. Some things are just best left alone.
<|_=00=_|>
I was unfortunate enough to see an early screening with a friend and...
man, this movie isn't bad; it's TERRIBLE. BEYOND TERRIBLE. 

It's getting mixed to positive reviews, but the people liking this
movie are the same people who jumped on-board the feminist "everyone
who hates this film is a misogynist" train and they don't even mention
anything beyond the parts they cherry-picked to like in the movie.
Throughout the hour and a half + movie, the movie made a desperate
attempt to be good to the point where it just appeared like they were
trying too hard. Much of the humor is forced and most of the jokes are
basic and can be seen/guessed even before the scene rolls. At times, it
felt cheap and lazy. I thought I was watching a failing SNL parody
rather than a good movie.

Leslie Jones is another problem; she portrays a stereotypical black
woman with an attitude. Yelling? Check. Bitch slapping? Check. Every
single stereotype about black woman? Check. Remember Winston Zeddemore
from the original film? Was he a stereotypical black man at the time in
the 1980s? Nope. Instead, he was an Average Joe who wanted a job and
took it at Ghostbusters. Here, Leslie portrays her character in an
almost-offensive manner when it comes to playing a stereotypical black
woman. It's borderline inappropriate and, had she been a man, this film
would've been TRASHED by critics for this portrayal of a character. 

Also, it's Reverse Sexism in a film. Instead of treating both genders
equally, Paul Feig displays men as idiots or assholes. This is true
with Hemsworth's character, Kevin, who is the team's secretary. He's
completely stupid, clueless and innocent; but mostly stupid. Janine in
the original film was a smart, capable woman who had a lot of memorable
moments and wasn't portrayed in a sexist, if not really unattractive
manner. I almost walked out of the early screening because of how
poorly men were portrayed in the film. And, probably, by now, everyone
has heard of the atrocious final resolution to the final battle.
SPOILER ALERT: SKIP IF YOU WANNA ACTUALLY SEE THIS BURNING DUMPSTER
FIRE.

The final battle is resolved by shooting Rowan in the dick. That's
right; four chicks shoot Rowan in the dick with their proton packs. -.-
You probably already know this because of the GIF floating around the
inter-webs, but, yeah. That's how the final battle ends; a really
sexist approach to finishing the film. It sounds mild, but combine this
with the portrayal of Kevin, Bill Murray's cameo and a few other male
characters who interact with the main characters and you have a
feminist film ready to go.

Along with these criticisms come with the really bad script that just
acts like imitation crab in the food world; it's just an imitation. In
fact, half the plot imitates the original in a distasteful manner that
just really turns off Ghostbusters fans. It's unoriginal and it pays
little homage to the films. When it does, it does it in lackluster
fashion. Like, for example, Stay Puft's official sighting in this film
is in parade balloon form, not true marshmallow form. If you were
expecting at least one showdown with the destructive Puft himself,
think again. He has been replaced by the logo ghost. XD 

There's so much wrong with this movie, but these things are just a few
of them. Thanks Paul Feig for messing Ghosbusters up. I guess Paul's
been Busted and it felt good busting' this travesty of a film that will
haunt GB fans for generations.

PROS: -Chris Hemsworth (For the most part) -Complete relief when the
film ended

CONS: -Terrible acting -Abismal writing -Huge gaping plot holes (Like
the inability to buy the firehouse but the ability to create advanced
ghost busting technology and obtain parts and equipment.) -Poor CGI
effects -Disrespectful cameos and treatment of original material
-Reverse sexist message -A stereotypical caricature of a black woman
(Leslie Jones as Patty) -Useless inclusion of Patty into the GB team
-Non-existent character chemistry -Disappointing final battle which
breaks all GB rules first established in the film -Unmemorable
soundtrack -Poor editing -Inappropriate responses to constructive
criticism hidden in film -Dull, ineffective, dry forced-humor -Identity
crisis (Reboot or Sequel. Choose one, Feig.) -Laughable film effort in
general

This film is BUSTED and busting this travesty of a film makes me feel
good; better than good... GREAT.

1/10 10/100 1/5 F
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen the original Ghostbusters films, so I went into
watching this with quite an open mind. It ended up being incredibly
disappointing though, the CGI was terrible and reminded me of the early
2000s live action Scooby Doo films, the girls, who I'd imagine are
funny in their own right, seemed to have absolutely zero chemistry
between them and oddly enough Chris Hemsworth's character Kevin ended
up being the most funny aspect of the film. 

That's just my personal opinion however. My boyfriend who I went to see
the film with whispered to me 'this is awful,' half way through and he
revealed to me that he had felt ashamed while watching the film. I went
because he guaranteed me it was going to be enjoyable and I think it
didn't take long until he realised that the movie was a disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
Some people are saying that this is the wort movie of all time. It is
not. It is merely a really bad movie with no redeeming qualities, and
it insults your intelligence.

And, most of the YouTube videos made slamming it are 100s of times
funnier than this movie.

Seriously, the movie is just not funny. In fact Batman and Robin
(George Clooney and whoever played Robin) had more humor in it than
this movie does, and that movie was worse than this one--that is how
not funny this movie is. 

Save your money. Read a cereal box. It will cost less and be funnier.
<|_=00=_|>
Awful but not necessarily for the reason you would expect.

Despite some early reviews I've read or watched I didn't find the movie
to be anti-male. There was nothing offensively anti-man in it that
wasn't something I've already seen before and laughed off a million
times. Unfortunately that's part of the problem this movie has with
humor creativity. There was nothing there to laugh about.

Thankfully Patty Tolan isn't a walking/talking stereotype. They made
her a New York City historian instead of a caricature with "street
smarts". Sadly, they didn't do her any other favors. Nor were the other
characters flushed out at all.

Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy play a pair of old friends who
re-unite but I never get much of a sense they were anything but aware
they were in a movie. They try to riff and play off each other but it
kind of falls flat.

Kate McKinnon's character stands out the most in this movie. The
character just seemed too weird in an unrealistic way. She seemed to
try chewing up scenery any time she was on a call sheet, even if she
didn't have much to say. She didn't feel like she fit into what was
happening.

One actress that stood out to me was Cecily Strong. Cecily Strong stood
out to me the same way Kristen Wiig first stood out to me in Knocked
Up. She only has a very small role in the movie but she's able to be
convincing and funny without making it seem like she's in on the joke.

The performances weren't bad per se, they were just very underwhelming
all-around. As a result, the film itself does not succeed.

I did like how the ghosts look in the movie. I also like the choice the
filmmakers make at the end regarding the classic logo. However I have
to be harsh on this movie because it's a reboot that ultimately did not
need to be made.

Not only did they attempt to reboot a comedy (tell the same joke twice
in a row and see how well it works the second time - comedy is a very
very delicate thing and you need to respect the audience) but they went
for a movie that originally caught lightning in a bottle. I don't even
think Ghostbusters II did enough to justify existing. Maybe the lessons
we didn't learn back when the sequel was made are the same lessons we
won't learn from the reboot.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted this movie to be decent. But it is absolute garbage. I watch
his movie from start to finish without laughing at all, and find myself
cringing at the acting that was happening. There is nothing at this
movie brings that is worth sitting through an hour and 59 minutes. I'm
not quite sure what Kate McKinnon's character is supposed to be she
walks around like she's got some lame legs and she cannot walk normally
and if you watch closely you see her constantly smirking and laughing
at her own stupid lines. Don't waste your time
<|_=00=_|>
Should have given option of zero rating also. I was not comfortable
giving even 1/10. This movie sets a new benchmark of height of bad
movies. Generally i don't write reviews, but in this case i felt
obligated to write one. What a shame brought on the good name of
Ghostbusters.
<|_=00=_|>
Against all reasoning I decided to watch the full movie remake. Where
can I begin. First, Leslie Jones (while sometimes funny on SNL) should
hang up her acting career and stick to stand-up. She was horrible! I
thought I was watching a female Richard Pryor on steroids. Kate
McKinnon must have gone to the same acting class as Leslie. The only
female deserving of being on the movie at all was Melisa McCarthy
because she at least can hold up the others in the cast.

They should have cut the remainder of the movie 15 minutes in and
replaced it with old Godzilla footage. Maybe have Melissa McCarthy
stomping on toy trucks and cars.
<|_=00=_|>
As fan of the original movies it's sad to see the extreme change of
direction here. The humor in the original movies were heartfelt and
funny, the effects were charming, and I think it even works today, in
its way. The effects in this one is more expensive, has more details,
but is much more comical, in a bad way. The comedy is about yelling,
exaggerated hip hop slang, and fast-paced, waaaay too easy jokes. 

In the original movies, Ivan Reitman was the real nerd-scientist who
outsmarted anyone in any room; Dan Aykroyd was the doomsday historian
who really had some fun lines in his movie-fact-based monologues about
evil; Bill Murray was a jerk, but he had a journey about improving
himself, that made him likable; And Ernie Hudson started out as this "I
don't care about anything as long as I get paid"-guy. This diverse
group found something together that created a friendship based on
real-felt trust, and they became a good team to hunt ghosts and save
people. There was a real journey there. I don't feel the journey on
this new one, I really don't.

Because... I want the old comedy, not this lightheaded piece of
"refurbished material" (to use a non-angry term). The original movies
were about Individuals having believable comedic and heartfelt separate
journeys, while I feel this movie is all about characters playing
stupid, fast-paced jokes on each other. All the time.. When there are
some hints of emotions in this movie I don't believe in it..

So much that I give it a 1. Normally the 1 is reserved, by me, for
zero-budget independent movies with actors with incoherent dialogue
delivering, and a photo that lacks the technical craft-ship to give us
a believable understanding of the surroundings. This one is made by
real Hollywood people, but you know what they say:

You can't polish a "refurbished material"!

Mic drop
