
I thoroughly enjoyed this film and found the story to be original and
funny throughout. Emily Blunt plays an extremely sexy con-artist who
crosses paths with an up-tight Bill Nighy playing a professional
assassin hired to kill her.

The characters are likable and well-cast. Bill Nighy and Emily Blunt
strike up a modern day love-story that is unconventional and yet
somehow totally believable. The family bond that is established with
Rupert Grint as the adopted son worked very well and was charming. 

If you want to see something different, interesting and funny then I
really recommend giving this film a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, in contrast to the first review, i felt that this was a
hilariously funny attribute to the British film industry. With
continuous amusing modern slap stick humour throughout.

I had been looking forward to the release of this film for a while, and
it was far better than i had ever expected. The cinema was packed and
everyone was laughing throughout the entire film, which in my
experience is very rare.

There is an incredible cast containing many well known British actors/
actresses, overall a must see film. 

Looking forward to the DVD release. Thank you. x
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this film and thought it was very entertaining.
True, there were only a few laugh-out-loud moments, but it kept me
chuckling away for most of the 90-odd minutes. I thought Bill Nighy's
performance was spot-on and Eileen Atkins' role gave her plenty of
scope for comedy moments. Rupert Everett and Gregor Fisher worked well
together, and Martin Freeman was very good as Dixon. Although the plot
was simple, the film was reminiscent of a lot of British comedies from
the Sixties and Seventies, which was probably why I enjoyed it so much.
It was also good to see something that wasn't shot in America and
didn't follow the stereotypical plot lines that most American films
seem to have as a matter of course.
<|_=00=_|>
If your taste is really obvious commercial and/or big budget comedies
then this might not be for you but if you have a soft spot for classic
British comedies that are a bit quirky, don't try to hard then this
should definitely be up your street.

It has an excellent cast that all play their characters perfectly
although very typically. 

Rupert Everett is predictably his usual self as is Bill Nighy but both
quite excellently so.

I've seen a couple of negative reviews of this movie but it needs to be
emphasised that it's not a mass market comedy. The story is great and
the timing of some of the jokes is absolutely perfect.

This is actually one of the few films I'd like to own a copy of when
it's released.
<|_=00=_|>
I ended up seeing this title in one of those frustrating moments where
my main choice of feature was either on at the wrong time, had not even
been released yet or my friends just flatly did not want to see the
same things as I, and so we ended up going to Wild Target as an
inoffensive compromise. I was expecting it to be real cheesy and void
of humour, especially after having seen the trailer. I was pleasantly
surprised! 

Okay, when one goes to the cinema with such low expectations, they can
only but move in one direction, but nevertheless I have to commend the
movie on several points. I thought all the one-liners would have been
used up in the trailer (and those that I had seen had seemed tacky at
best) but I guess the movie isn't about one-liners. Rather then relying
on half cocked jokes, it pulls itself onto its own two feet using
situational comedy, which gives it a real British flavour. I heard it
compared to the humour of the old Earling Studio movies, which seems
like a nice comparison. Actually, on doing a little research, I found
that the original story came from a French movie (Cible émouvante,
1993). It's easy to tell from the zany characters, offbeat humour and
introspective look on life that it was originally French in theme, but
as a story it translates nicely onto a typically British backdrop.

Basically Victor Maynard, a cold hearted hit-man played by Bill Nighy
(great performance as always - he's legend!) is a middle aged unmarried
killing professional who is beginning to loose his touch. This becomes
no more obvious when he fails to make a hit on the sensually beautiful
Rose (Emily Blunt). Things start to get complicated for Victor when he
finds, not only has he lost the killer instinct, but he also starts
protecting her from the men sent to finish the job.

I'm not sure about the Rupert Grint character of Tony. He seems the
most out of place in my opinion. I suppose Tony was added to feed in a
further dynamic between Victor and Rose and their growing relationship,
but for me, this relationship triangle was either not developed fully
or just failed outright. Maybe it held more credence in the original
French story, but in the English version at least, Tony really does
feel like the spare tire as his presence seems unnecessary and the
character's attributes hammy. By far the weakest link the movie.

Quirky and light hearted; it may only be a lighter shade of grey rather
then a full blown black comedy (12A Cert in Ireland), but still a
pleasant surprise if you come to stumble upon it.
<|_=00=_|>
Wild Target is the ultimate British black comedy, which makes a
refreshing change from all the Hollywood movie's right now.This is
hilarious throughout with laughs going to all the cast. Billy Nighy,
Emily Blunt and Rupert Grint give terrific performances with superb
support from Martin Freeman, Gregory Fisher and Eileen Atkins who make
the most of their time on the screen.

There is a lovely chemistry of romance between Blunt and Nighy and you
care about the characters and that's what makes this movie so
intelligent, though they commit crimes like Nighy is an assassin and
has killed people and Blunt is a thief, the audience can remained
attached enough to laugh at their predicament but at the same time care
about the characters and what happens to them as Nighy falls for Blunt
and at the same time they and Grint become like a family, and that is
difficult to pull off, but this film does it tremendously. It's also
surprisingly touching in places as the transition from romance to drama
to comedy is handled seamlessly blending lovely together. The story
though basic is good enough and the script is structured beautifully
with sharpness and wit embedded within. A terrific British comedy that
is one of a kind. It deserves all the praise it has and will receive
and judging by the 7.8 IMDb rating it has been given I'd say the praise
is high. It's a rating well deserved
<|_=00=_|>
What can I add to a great British comedy more than other's reviews?
Well, it was fresh, fun, a touch of sexiness and simply fun. (I said it
twice?)

We were 11 and if we were in US, I think we could file for a 3rd grade
murder by suffocation! It was an instance in the movie when Bill Nighy
said, "May I do your other foot!".

I can tell you guys that, 7 of my friends choked instantly on the
buttered pop-corns and I, as the only person in the row, tears in the
eyes, still breathing, had to take care of them all.

Coughing, tears in the eyes hitting their backs! Lucky we were not
thrown out of the theater!

It is a fresh, British humor, Classy and Cool movie. Give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who haven't seen Ciblé Émovante from 1993 do. But Wild Target
is seriously a tremendous remake.

Very very funny and just plain good fun - this harks back to the golden
age of British comedies, sidesteps (in the main) Guy Ritchie and goes
for that same vibe that Shooting Fish had.

The plot of the buttoned-down assassin and the kooky girl and the guy
who gets involved by mistake is a vehicle to hang some great lines and
situations on; let's just say it involves art forgery, hired guns,
kleptomania, and Snowy the Cat. Brilliant stuff. Bill Nighy does his
usual comic timing to perfection and he and Emily Blunt, along with the
two Ruperts, Grint and Everett, bring a real sense of fun to this. Well
supported and very well directed there's not much to complain about
here - it's just a great comedy and taken as that you could do much
worse.

Honestly, we haven't laughed or just flat out enjoyed a film this much
in a long time - it's got a wonderful vibe to it that just makes
watching it fun - and after all it's nice to get back to some good old
fashioned killing without all the pizazz....

Highly recommended if you like British comedies, do try to get to see
the french original, it's a corker, but this, this one is going in my
collection....
<|_=00=_|>
While others seem to have found the film a letdown, I found it quite
the opposite, expecting it to be an overly quirky and trying too hard
to be different, a flaw with many smaller British and independent film
today. Wild Target stuck to old formulas. this is not a criticism this
film is not trying to be as serious as Leon instead it was enjoyable
because you knew what was going to happen all along really the joy was
the bedlam that gets you there. Its slapstick and camp and just plain
silly.

I agree with danielkratky, it is a silly love story that despite your
better judgement is in the end believable you just have to be willing
to Wild target is a short film and to expect it to develop the
characters beyond what is done is not needed, there's the good, the bad
and the gormless and because of this it lulls you along with a nice
wistful story of murder and mayhem rapt in some good over the top
acting from everyone.

Grint whom I loath as Ron in harry potter made good in this film,
despite still playing the slightly clueless tag-along.

if you want a serious look at a hit-man changing his life then go and
watch The American or by Leon on DVD. 

(solid_simon may i suggest that you were the only person in the
screening hence the lack of laughter)
<|_=00=_|>
To me this was a classic and quirky British farce. If it had been been
1958 and in black and white, it would have been in it's place but in
2010 it was slightly odd. That said, I enjoyed the film and would
recommend seeing it. The star of the film was certainly Rupert Grint
who provided some of the best comedy moments, and Dame Eileen Atkins
was a disappointment after her stellar performance in Psychoville. Some
of the plot lines were predictable and could be seen coming, but in a
way that added to the charm of the film. And it's always nice to see a
proper British film as opposed to the ones we just make so well for
Hollywood!
