
This one surprised me, because I had seen very little advertising or
hype for this movie. My friend and I watched the trailer and I thought,
"Eh, kinda looks like another 'Taken' or 'Death Sentence.' I'm so glad
I was wrong.

This is not another "father goes on rampage to kill the guy that
kidnapped/murdered his child." It's actually a very involved thriller
that has a fair few twists and turns around a conspiracy Gibson's
daughter was involved in. Gibson actually does not go all gung-ho like
Neeson did; rather, he was very careful in his investigations. His
performance was brilliant, as was Ray Winstone's, though I found myself
wishing he had a bit more screen time.

The pacing is pretty quick in some places, so it keeps you interested.
Sometimes the plot may be a little convoluted, but it makes sense if
one pays enough attention.

Also, I should note that there isn't nearly as much action as the
trailer makes it seem. There is FAR more drama, though it's still
plenty tense.

First movie of 2010 I've seen, and it's off to a great start. "Edge of
Darkness" is well worth it, and certainly not the movie its advertising
makes it out to be. Go see it, you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at an early screening and was delighted.

I give this movie three stars out of four, or 8 of ten points for great
characters, intrigue, and some startling action scenes. It looses the 2
points because it does tend to slow down a little and become more
dramatic at times but if you are a Mel Gibson fan you probably won't
mind that at all. This movie reminded me a little of Taken, with a
whole lot of Enemy of the State, and just a touch of Jason Bourne. Mel
Gibson is engaging in his first acting role in years, although he
definitely looks older now. It's hard to watch Gibson here without
thinking of Martin Riggs in Lethal Weapon and there is some carryover
but here Craven played by Gibson is the older, caring, Father who is
also a cop although there is still some of of the craziness that made
Mel so dynamic in a number of his roles. In some ways Mel reminded me
here a little of Clint Eastwood in movies like Absolute Power and In
the Line of Fire as the more mature protagonist who combines maturity
and cunning with a fierce side that comes out in battle.

It's not giving anything away to say that the story is about Mel
Gibson's character trying to find out who killed his daughter as that
much is in the trailer. Mel plays a veteran detective and so has skills
and resources we civilians don't. The movie takes a while to develop
and takes great pains to show the love of Craven for his daughter in
the opening scenes and then periodically remind us in flashbacks. There
are a lot of characters which seem to be critical to building the
intrigue of the movie; activists, defense contractors, government
officials and various henchmen. The movie does a good job for a while
of hiding who is working for whom. Suspense does build for most of the
movie but a good bit before the end it is evident what is going on and
the movie shifts from an action thriller to more of an pure action
movie.

Ray Winstone plays an intriguing role as Jedburgh, deftly showing
protagonist and antagonist sides at different times in a mysterious
role. Danny Huston plays a multi-dimensional character, Jack Bennet,
that is fun to watch. Bojana Novakovic as Emma Craven is a sweetheart.
Jay O. Sanders plays a solid role as Detective Whitehouse.

The movie is definitely heavy on violence and acting independent of
authority although I don't remember any swearing or sex scenes. Still
it requires a mature audience as the hero's actions are probably not
ones you want your kids emulating in your house. As with so many movies
it portrays sides of business and government at their worst. So,since
it is light on sexuality and vulgarity I would suggest that if you let
your older kids go that you still discuss the extreme portrayals of the
police, use of force, business and government.

It's good to see Mel back in action.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Thomas Craven (Mel Gibson) is a veteran homicide detective
in the Boston Police Department. As they are walking out the front door
of his house, his 24-year old daughter Emma (Bojana Novakovic) is blow
away by a shotgun blast. Everyone assumes that Thomas, who was standing
next to her, was the killer's intended target. However, Thomas begins
to suspect that Emma was the real target. Driven by heartache and
blame, Thomas initiates his own private investigation to uncover Emma's
secret life and the reason for her murder. His investigation leads him
down the path of corporate and government cover-ups, which resulted in
his daughter's elimination. Thomas receives some help from a government
operative, Jedburgh (Ray Winstone), who has been sent in to clean up
the situation. Thomas Craven's search for the truth brings him closer
to his daughter and his own deliverance.

(My Comment) This is an intense movie about family and closure, and of
course, Detective Thomas Craven has a little different type of closure
in mind. Some of the movie is a little hard to follow when Thomas does
something, and you ask yourself, "why did he do that." But that might
be part of the puzzle he is trying to solve. The reason the bad guys
use for keeping everything secret is a little far-fetched. Mel Gibson's
masterful portrayal of a man with nothing to lose is excellent.
Everybody better get out of his way. From the movie trailers you would
think that Thomas is going around threatening and killing everybody he
meets, but that is not the case. Thomas does take out some of the bad
guys, which will meet with your approval. This is a good action movie,
but you must remember that it is definitely heavy on violence. (Warner
Bros., Run Time 1:57, Rated R)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who has seen the trailer can expect to get exactly what the
trailer depicts. A cop loses his beautiful daughter and sets out to
solve the murder that others conclude was self explanatory as a
shooting in an attempt to get revenge against a cop. Taking things at
face value sometimes just don't cut it.

Gibson and Ray Winstone were so perfect for the roles they played. The
tension from both kept me clinging to my seat and wiping my brow.
Gibson probably had his best role in this movie. I have seen most of
his movies starting with Lethal Weapon and I could not see one
potential likeness of Martin Riggs in Edge of Darkness, except for the
fact he played a cop. As Craven, he was truly believable as a dad on a
mission to make things right. Winstone is someone I didn't recognize
even though he has been in a ton of movies. But after this, I will know
and respect him for the rest of my life. Trying to understand his role
was a treat, but while doing that, I kept my distance for fear he might
have caught me trying to get too close. His thick Brit accent and
command of those around him was absolutely a great treat.

Danny Huston is someone I came to enjoy since seeing him in 30 Days of
Night as the lead Vampire. He did not disappoint but he could have had
a meatier role. As far as I am concerned, he has been added to the list
of great seasoned actors to look for anytime you expect to see quality
acting.

I mean no disrespect to any of the actors. Everyone did a great job,
including some of those in smaller, yet relevant roles.

Everything about the movie was believable and memorable. Some of the
violence that you will need to endure will catch you off guard. There
is no need to brace yourself because you will get caught off guard.

Excellent emotional roller coaster getting an 8 and a great big
"welcome back" hug for Mel.
<|_=00=_|>
Some people have bagged out this icon, but his performance in this
movie was as good as ever. It was convincing, honest, and true to
script. 

I worked with Mel on this movie so feel that any review I give will be
biased - reviews are best left to the viewers, after all, they are the
ones who determine its success or failure - but I can assure you he was
the ultimate professional - his career has many years left!

Bad reviews are of course as welcome as positive ones - as long as they
are constructive - they are an avenue not only for others to ascertain
the value of a movie but also an avenue for those involved to learn and
improve (as well as gather praise where praise is due) - but I would
highly recommend you see this one and make up your own mind. It is
highly relevant to the current economic stasis in this country and a
hint of what may be behind the scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
He is in every sense of the word back. It has been over seven years
since Mel Gibson graced the multiplexes with his presence. In that time
he has directed two films (one wildly successful, the other wildly
good) and for some he has ruined his ability to be seen merely as an
actor by making some despicable decisions in his personal life. I will
simply say that while the man is no friend of mine I am fond of his
work. In this movie which would have been a good one with or without
him he effortlessly slips into the persona that dominates every picture
in his career. Enough about the man, let me elaborate on the character
and the world he inhabits.

Edge of Darkness was a UK TV series some 20 odd years ago. The director
of that series is the man behind the camera here, Martin Campbell
(director of one of the previous decade's best Casino Royale). Along
the way you will have to excuse some implausibility's. Notice I say
implausibility's and impossibilities. The difference is often what
makes a thriller thrilling or simply dumb.

Boston Detective Thomas Craven (Gibson) is picking up his daughter Emma
(Bojana Novakovic) for a visit home. She doesn't come home often and
there is a spring in the step of this aging cop. We can see though that
something is up with her. Her nose bleeds often and there is something
clearly on her mind. Before she can spill it to her dad she is murdered
brutally on his front porch. Tom immediately becomes a man on a
mission. Don't mistake him for someone without feelings. He is racked
by flashbacks and memories of his child. This motivates him but saddens
him far more. Along the way he discovers that he may not have been the
target of the assailants but that his daughter might have some
skeletons in her closet. His investigation of course takes him away
from his normal jurisdiction as an officer of the law. He's a man on
targeting revenge not righteousness. Eventually his search leads him to
his daughter's former employer which is engaged in defense contracting
(the shady type of course) with the U.S. government. The company's name
is Northmoor and its head is Jack Bennett (Danny Huston) a man so
passive and intelligent you wouldn't even think to call him a monster.
Aiding or perhaps prohibiting Tom is the savvy and mysterious Jedberg
(Ray "how haven't I been nominated for an Oscar yet" Winstone).

The plot of this film requires a little more detail than I have
supplied but the less you know about Northmoor or Ms. Craven's dealings
the more you will enjoy this. Suffice it to say that while this plot is
a bit wild it is in fact in line with the characters and the world it
portrays. There is always a grain of realism when films accuse of the
government of quietly allying itself with effective but perhaps immoral
defense contractors (Google: "Blackwater"). All this is way above the
head of our hero but his intelligence guides him through his personal
investigation. He's a thinker far more than an action hero. Along the
way, he does get himself out a few physically improbable situations but
that's okay. It's nothing over the top and Gibson's so fiercely
personifies this conflicted man that we root for him instead of roll
our eyes when he blasts a car off the road. The cast is aces. Winstone
is perfect as a man with a mysteriously intelligent man with the skill
set and persona to control the situations at hand while still seeming
human. Danny Huston is becoming a true presence as a villain-character
actor. We loathe him by the end of film not simply because of his
calculating ruthlessness but because he is always great foil for our
film's protagonists. The rest of the cast fills in nicely embodying
their roles without standing out due to overacting or incompetence.
Another aspect of the film is that it's Boston dialogue heavy. An
accent or two is so thick that it's hard to understand.

At the end of the proceedings, Edge of Darkness is a very good and
satisfying thriller. It's easy to buy into its twists and turns and
even be riveted by a few. It's not as dead on intelligent or seem as
stunningly real and huge as last year's State of Play but this is a
Gibson star vehicle and I am more than happy for it. He has always been
an actor who seemed to be playing a real character in every single
thing he's done. He's got range to. Whether it's the comedy of the
Lethal Weapon series, the intensity of Braveheart, or the reserved
emotion of Signs we are drawn to his character. Baggage and all, Mel
the actor is back right where he left off.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so after x amount of years in the "Lead Actor" wilderness Mel is
back with some serious conviction.

I have heard mixed reviews and seen a couple on here and of course we
would like to say we are not affected but it may make the difference
between seeing it at a cinema or waiting for the DVD.

Well i for one am i glad i went to see it on the big screen,a big
screen remake of a little known TV series from the 80's might surprise
a few people but it shows that good writing and strong characters will
always impress the powers that be.

Anyway i'm slightly drifting off subject, this film holds you from
start to finish, it is filmed with a consistent tension that never lets
up.

A shocking episode and then a world of pain for Mel Gibson lies in
store, along the way we are introduced to the kind of shady power
hungry people that we know must exist, but we hope as (pretty much) law
abiding citizens we never have to lose sleep over.

Danny Houston is excellent and Ray Winstone are so convincing in their
roles that you find yourself routing for a man who openly admits to
killing for a living...

The music is subtle but really drives the film along leading to in my
opinion a shocking climax,having been to the city of Boston a few times
i can see how it makes for interesting and unexplored location, the
same way it did in The Departed..

OK so lets wrap it up, if you are a Mel Gibson fan, a secret admirer of
1980s thrillers...or planning your next vacation in Massachusettes, go
see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, I concur with the detractors, if we go by the far fetched
conspiracy script, you will not enjoy the movie. This movie is a
existential character study of two very disparate men who are moral
opposites. Jedburgh the hired killer and garbageman for the corporate
slime, and Craven, the moral policeman who just lost his anchor to
life: his daughter. Both are facing death: Jedburgh is dying of cancer,
Craven knows the investigation is a one way ticket. These are powerful
people; you go after them, even if you kill them, you die. Gibson is
always on that couch, covered in her blood, forever. He may move about
but existentially he will always be there. The scene on the park bench,
when he says,"I don't think I'm going to make it, honey," this is where
he decides. He knows after a few minutes with Corporate boy that he did
it. The guy almost dies for his mocking of Craven's grief. In a great
scene, Gibson bull rushes his motorcade, storms into his backseat, puts
a gun to his head, mocks his mockery, in pure darkness,"Tell me, how
does it feel?" That is the title: He is at the Edge Of Darkness. Only
his goodness stops him from executing his daughter's murderer. The
movie really is the title: both of these men are facing Darkness:
Morally and Existentially. Craven is on a suicide mission and Jedburgh
is dying.

The friendship which slowly and realistically grows between these two
opposites is the core of the movie. Try not to focus on the conspiracy
and rather on these two men. Jedburgh senses that Craven is on a
suicide mission; he will die but he will destroy the men who killed
Emma. The growing warmth does not stop Jedburgh from still luring
Craven to his death,"Why don't we take a little walk?" Craven
replies,"I'm not going anywhere in the dark with you." The closeness
takes almost the entire length of the movie. It is only when Jedburgh
asks the happy, partying Corporate Slime what happened to Craven, they
tell him oh! he got Huston but we got away and he cannot speak anymore.
This is where Jedburgh, in one act of light before night, destroys the
destroyers. He then asks the security guy if he has a family, when he
says yes, he allows himself to be killed. This really is the movie. I
agree with the above critics, the plot is rather far fetched but it
really is tangential. The title refers to the moral crises of these two
men, pitched on the edge of the abyss. 

Jedburgh had a life of evil killing threats to these insects. Craven,
while a good man, is severely tested to cross the line. He is forced to
when he is poisoned with the milk; he has too little life left, there
is but one recourse. To stress this, as Craven pours the poison milk
down Huston's throat he yells,"You know you deserve this." That is also
why he has that slime-ball yell Craven. See, an evil person would just
shoot anyone at random in this group. This is Craven's Edge of
Darkness. The movie is a treasure because it presents two antithetical
men, coming from moral opposites. They meet in the middle: Craven is
going into night, trying not to lose the light. Jedburgh is coming from
pure night, before he dies, just one good act before nightfall. 

It is a great, dark, deeply moving film but I truly own it for the
beautiful ending. Who amongst us would not wish that when we die one of
our beloved departed come for us like this? The ending with Emma gently
coming for him and walking out into the light as he dies in the
background, what a beautiful, powerfully moving scene. That, is what
kept him on the ledge but out of the abyss. His wish to be with Emma
again. His faith and his love kept him from falling into the darkness.
I think if you watch the film for the story of these two men and how
they meet their end, you will see the beauty of the film. Dark But
Light Shines Through It. 

"He Who Fights Monsters Should See To It That He Does not Become A
Monster, And When You Look Long Into The Abyss, The Abyss Looks Into
You."

Nietzsche From Beyond Good And Evil
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great mystery/action/crime film that opens with a murder, as
the trailer advertised. But the mystery around the murder is the meat
of Edge of Darkness. So, it fits the mold of old-fashioned crime
thrillers but in a modern setting. The action and entertainment come
from how Mel Gibson, the main character, solves the mystery. Some fine
performances by supporting actors add to the quality of the film. This
is a top notch thriller that also has some unusual twists at the end.
Excellent entertainment overall. 

One quirk about the film that others may also find amusing is in the
portrayal of the U.S. Senator from Boston as a Republican. Until the
recent election to fill the seat of deceased Edward Kennedy, there
hadn't been a Republican in the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts in more
than three decades. But then, movies are fiction, aren't they!
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, that's a good title for this film about a good cop who throws out
all the rules and lives on the "edge of darkness" after his daughter is
poisoned and murdered. At that point, he "doesn't give a s--t," as he
states in the film. He will do whatever it takes to find out what
happened to his daughter, who killed her and who was behind it all.
This reminded me of Mel Gibson's 1999 film "Payback" where he plays a
rough character on a mission.

There is no wasted talk in here, especially by Gibson's character,
"Det.Thomas Craven." Although a little shocked because I didn't think
I'd see this veteran actor return to these kind of roles, I have to
admit he's fascinating in them. The only difference - and you really
see this on the fine Bu-Ray transfer - is all the wrinkles in Mel's
face! He ain't a kid, anymore. Either is actor Ray Winstone, but he is
equally fascinating as the mysterious "Jedburgh." This is a rough film,
make no mistake. The language is very profane in the first half but
surprisingly absent of that in the second half. The tenseness and the
no-compromise violence, however, is there from start-to-finish. The
movie doesn't overdo the amount of violence, however, keeping things
cerebral enough so when something does happen, it's quick and shocking.

The villains are the stereotypical ones of Hollywood: the U.S.
government, the Defense Department, a senator (a Republican, of
course), and a few other of the usual suspects. However, despite that
normal bias, I found the film very entertaining with plenty of twists
and turns to keep your brain going, not just your base instincts.
Regarding the latter, there are some gruesome scenes in here, so be
warned about that. As I said, it's a rough, take-no-prisoners film.
