
The plot is fresh and original, at least I've never seen anything like
it before. This film actually has two options. #1 To be a serious drama
about a "middle aged" woman and the choices she makes. #2 To be
hilarious and make the audience laugh all the way home. Somehow this
movie is attempting both which unfortunately results in a chick flick
so weak that not even the girliest of girls (that would be me), would
bother watching.. again. It has a few good scenes here and there, but
not enough to make it worth watching a second time. Being quite the
J.Lo fan, this movie really was a major disappointment, as I had looked
forward to her comeback. I def smell a Razzie...!
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the disappointing "Bounty Hunter" I went to see this movie
with a little hope. I was wrong because this movie failed also. The
story is actually in 99% of the cases impossible to happen in real life
simply because there's no man out there that will be able to raise
someone's babies after just one week of relationship. Second the acting
was sub-mediocre. A large amount of over acting and such a clicheic
story full of scenes that we saw over and over and over again in so
many movies about girl meeting boy or boy meeting girl.

The movie looks just like any other romantic movie out there, the
dialogue is so childish full of pointless advices, lame flirting and
the character development really sucks. The soundtrack is worse... a
bunch of songs cut and inserted here and there to promote bands and
stuff such as because Hollywood loves these days just to make some more
profit from these movies.

With all these, the movie is good if you wanna take a chick to your
local theater and then just do your thing ... if not... don't even
bother.
<|_=00=_|>
The date-night genre of choice, rom-com's, get another black eye.
People have rightfully criticized stuff like Valentine's Day for giving
the genre a bad name, but Back Up Plan makes even V-Day seem almost
good by comparison. 

Jennifer Lopez shows up, after appearing in nothing but check-out stand
gossip news rags for a while. Along with Jen are a supporting cast
whose acting, simply put, reeks. Jen is an uppity "bio-clock's running"
30-something who wants a relationship, plus a child. Guys flee in
terror (they must have seen abominations like Gigli, Anaconda, Jersey
Girl and Monster-in-Law), so she resigns herself to a single-mom
future, and goes through an artificial insemination procedure. Just
minutes after learning she's pregnant, she meets Mr. Right (a poor sap
who hasn't seen her movies). A possibly amusing premise, but the writer
clearly had no idea where to go with it. The story is jumbled,
rambling, and has no clear goal. It's more like a series of skits with
corny punch lines, usually mean-spirited in that the joy of parenting
is grossly mocked.

The poor sap boyfriend and JLo have romantic chemistry about as hot as
the polar ice cap. The weak scripting and abysmal direction may be to
blame for their poor acting performances; it's not certain. The guy
just mugs and stares blankly. As for Jen, she's kind to the eyes but
grating to the ears: her line delivery is a patchwork quilt of
sing-song, cutesy-cute, whiny, and condescending career-woman tones. At
times, she appears catatonic. 

Even stuff like Iron Man and Nightmare on Elm St. would be more
romantic and funny than this is.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Zoe (Jennifer Lopez) has decided that she has waited long
enough looking for Mr. Right to come along before she becomes a mother.
Her clock is ticking, and time is running out for her, so Zoe makes an
appointment with the doctor to become pregnant without a man. Within
hours of the procedure, Zoe meets Stan (Alex O'Loughlin) an attractive
and charming man who has caught her eye. Soon a budding relationship
between them becomes a full blown courtship. Then Zoe finds out that
she is pregnant after only one try at the doctor's office. She must
find a way to tell Stan that she is pregnant without his walking out of
her life. Stan is not sure at first, but he fully commits to Zoe and
says that he is in. As the pregnancy comes nearer to the birth, both of
them are unsure about the future and their relationship.

(My Comment) "The Back-up Plan" is a light-hearted romantic comedy that
shows what can happen in life when you start a family in the reverse
order. This movie is funny, a bit touching, and a family tale about
trusting the partner you love and accepting the things he or she does.
It is a feel good movie that lets the women of the world know that
there are still some good men out there. The women in the audience can
relate to the story, because it presents the crazy and tough times, and
all the moments in-between that women go through during a pregnancy.
Jennifer Lopez and Alex O'Loughlin had very good "couple chemistry" as
the relationship developed. Be sure to watch the credits, because there
are some hilarious out-takes. This is a movie that would be best seen
when it comes out in DVD; however, if you want to see Jennifer and Alex
on the big screen, go ahead. (CBS Films, Run Time 1:46, Rated PG-13)
(5/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Lopez as Zoe is a beautiful and talented woman who slummed in
this movie. The film had a disconcerting incongruity to it from the
beginning to the end. The opening title sequence is an animation
reminiscent of a 1960's movie. The cartoon of Lopez sees all kinds of
things in New York that reminds her of having a baby. The animation
segues to the live action of her being artificially inseminated. We
discover later in the movie that she made that choice because she had
no family since her mother died when she was a child and her father
abandoned her, leaving her grandmother (played by Linda Lavin of the
Alice TV series) to raise her. And she did not have much longer to
live.

Both my wife and I enjoyed the movie in the very beginning, but it
quickly became troubling to both of us. Exaggeration is a standard
comedic technique for getting a laugh, and this film relies totally on
exaggeration. So I don't think they were trying to put down families,
but the use of exaggeration makes it come off that way. Every child is
shown to be little monsters, which is not at all true. But they are
trying to set up reasons for not wanting children. The disturbing
message given by this is that families are a bad thing, or, at least
incredibly difficult with very little reward. This theme is vocalized
by the playground dad (Anthony Anderson) who tells Stan (Alex
O'Laughlin) that raising kids is "Awful, awful, awful, awful, then
momentarily incredible, followed by awful, awful, awful." Zoe (Lopez)
goes to a single mother's support group where later she and Stan
witness a live birth in a plastic pool of water. Exaggeration is used
for the comedic effect, yet the resulting message is that child birth
is a horrible experience that no woman should ever have to go through.
This scene was the most repulsive scene in the movie, and the lowest
point of the film.

Zoe has a pet dog who through inbreeding has a weakness in its hind
legs that render them unusable. Consequently the animal is on wheels
and the film-makers make fun of the animal as it tips over in one scene
and rolls backward trying to climb up a hill in another. I only felt
sadness for the creature and considered the humor cruel and pointless.

The main plot of the story is that Zoe doesn't think that she will meet
Mr. Right so has her children by artificial insemination only to meet
him the moment she leaves the fertility clinic. The story is the
struggle of her trusting him to accept her and the babies. But from the
audience point of view I found the whole scenario to be utterly stupid
and unrealistic. When they agree to move in together, they both agree
that it was without promise or conditions. She places expectation on
him when they are only shacking up together and are not married! Why
would any woman go through such angst when no commitment of marriage is
given at all! All I could think was that she was a total moron who did
not deserve any sympathy. Of course the movie ends with him finally
asking her hand in marriage for the "happy ending" but I found the
underlying message to be a total lie that one can enter a meaningful
marriage relationship by the back door. It encourages gullible youth
(especially naive girls) in thinking that they can live together before
marriage as a path that will lead to marriage which statistically shows
that is false.

What grieved me most, though, was not just the movie, but the audience.
I was appalled that so many laughed at the jokes without offense. The
dumbing down of Americans is so bad that trash like this movie would be
entertaining. It was a total waste of my admission price. If you really
need to see it, wait until it is on DVD and you only have to pay $1 at
Redbox. My recommendation, though, is don't waste your time at all.
<|_=00=_|>
The times aren't easy for Jennifer Lopez. She still looks good, she
might have a great voice and a killer body, but first her label drops
her, and then she stars in a movie that's so terrible, it could simply
not exist.

Let's start off with the plot, which is, I'll be first to admit it, not
that bad. A single woman, gorgeous and sweet, decides to go in vitro,
since she's always wanted a baby, and we all know how hard it is to
find the right guy (apparently). And then she meets her prince
charming, about 10 minutes after being done with the procedure. Fine
with me, nowhere did it say that the movie has to be realistic. Other
than that, the movie touches an interesting issue - when you're single,
and you want a baby but there's nobody to make it with you, how do you
make your love life and your dreams co-exist? But then the unrealistic
situations start to pill up. All the funny moments are already shown in
the trailer. And the movie itself, even though it starts interesting,
gets completely out of hand - long and weird, making no sense, finally
embarrassing and even disguising. The moment I personally gave up was
when one of the ladies gives birth in the pool, poops while doing it
and one of the women scoops it out with a fishnet - or was it when
Lopez passes out into the pool and then, instead of taking a shower
like any sane person would do, decides to take a walk? Acting is not
even embarrassing - it's non existent. You'd think that after so many
attempts to act, Lopez would finally learn a trick or two, maybe even
become an actress; instead, her movie dog is better at acting than she
is, or, I think it's safe to say, will ever be.

But the thing that bothered me the most is - aren't we all tired of
silly romantic comedies packed with unrealistic situations that never
happen? Cute, hunky men don't just get into the same cab as you, and
then madly fall in love with you and decide to stick around, even
though you're pregnant with a guy you don't even know. They don't drive
their tractors semi nude. They don't make love to you in a barn full of
cheese. That just doesn't happen, and I'm completely serious when I say
that even Sex and the City 2 was far more realistic than The Backup
Plan; not to mention, a lot more fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this movie. My friend, Carlease, is in
it and the promos looked funny. I knew I was in trouble, meaning I was
NOT going to laugh very much, after the intro scene between the two
main characters JLo and Stan. The whole cab thing...excuse me? You have
at least 5 other cabs driving around behind them and they couldn't each
simply flag another one down? Or at least make a comment about it? I
found it rude that she scarfs down all the muffin samples and when the
Muffin Lady calls her on her stuff, she DOESN'T even buy one? Just
walks away? Rude!

He was dressed too tacky on that first date. She drank wine during
dinner! Hellloooo! You may be pregnant and you're drinking? And later
on in the movie when the pregnant buddies got together to celebrate
with champagne? Huh? What kind of writing is this? Bad. Also bad
writing was evidenced by the fact that we never know exactly what the
relationship is between him and the Muffin Lady till way into the
movie. Wouldn't the Jlo character be at least a LITTLE curious as to
the status of this woman given her initial reaction? Wouldn't you ask
that on a first date? Unbelievable.

At her grandma's wedding Jlo's character is constantly using the cell
phone. Rude. Also rude was dipping all that bread in Stan's stew and
then wiping her face with another piece of bread. That was not cute,
only gross. Ewww....he should have taken one look and dropped her like
a hot potato.

By the end of the movie (which was horribly predictable), I was just
sitting there sadly shaking my head. The whole premise was unrealistic
that a great looking guy is going to stick around after finding out the
woman he's dating is having twins. That aren't his. For what?

I say stay away. Sure Lopez looks beautiful, but that's about it. Oh,
wait a minute, the birthing scene was rather chuckle-worthy.
<|_=00=_|>
...I knew I was in for a long and gruesome two hours. When the doctor
uttered, "I'm not looking at your toenails, I'm looking at your
cervix," I knew it was all downhill from here. 

What can I say about this movie? First, let's discuss how unrealistic
it is. Sure, movies are not always meant to be based on realism, but...
meeting a random guy on the street, having the guy be weirdly
fascinated by you after having met for only what, 3 minutes, falling in
love with each other, and finally, having the guy so enamored by you
that he is willing to be the father to your artificially inseminated
children? 

Just doesn't happen! Lopez and O'Loughlin have zero chemistry. I never
once believed that these two people who met on the street were really
"falling in love." Their "fights" were hardly believable either and I
didn't sympathize with either party. 

There is also a birthing scene of another woman (not Lopez) to show how
Zoe (Lopez) how painful childbirth can be, but this was dragged out for
far too long. The joke was decently funny at first, but after several
minutes, it's like... alright. We get it. Giving birth hurts. After
several minutes, it's just not funny anymore and becomes uncomfortable. 

Basically, this movie is a load of garbage. I give it two stars instead
of one, though, because I would be lying if I said it didn't entertain
me. The dialogue at times was so outlandish that I could not help but
laugh. And nearly every planned "romantic" moment between Lopez and
O'Loughlin made me laugh too. 

But generally, a few comedic moments and laughable dialogue is not
enough of a reason to go see this film. Definitely save your money and
stay far far away from this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Zoe's a woman who has a hard time letting anyone into her life. She has
a habit of pushing people away when they get close. She also wants to
have a baby but because she has no man in her life decides to be
artificially inseminated. Shortly after having the procedure she meets
a guy named Stan whom she connects with. But she's still afraid to let
him in and when she tells him about her pregnancy thinking he would
bail but he sticks with her.

Most of this was pleasant, just nothing new, and recycled formula.
Lopez is a charmer, but let's face it, she can do this sort of stuff in
her sleep. I don't remember laughing out loud. The chemistry between
O'Loughlin and Lopez is professional and solid, If nothing memorable.

Bottom line. Watchable, but just barely above the Mendoza line. Really
mediocre stuff, and nothing I haven't seen before. Take it or leave it,
your not really missing anything.

4 ½ 10
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, the former executive and presently owner of a pet shop Zoe
(Jennifer Lopez) has no boy-friend and only a couple of friends since
she has difficulties to let people into her life. She lost her parents
when she was a child and her only relative alive is her grandmother
that lives in a nursing home and Zoe feeling lonely. She decides on
artificial insemination to have a baby and to join a supporting group
of single mothers. When she leaves the clinic very happy with the
successful procedure, she meets the cheese manufacturer and college
student Stan (Alex O'Loughlin) and they immediately feel attracted for
each other. They date and Zoe believes she has found the prince
charming and changes her expectation with the insemination. However the
doctor finds that she is pregnant and now she has the dilemmatic
situation: how to tell Stan that she is pregnant.

"The Back-up Plan" was supposed to be a romantic comedy; unfortunately
it is a cheesy, unfunny and non-romantic comedy. The idea of "falling
in love", "getting married" and "having a baby" not necessarily in this
order" could have worked with a better screenplay. However, the
situations and characters are too stupid to work. Zoe is described as a
former successful executive but her character seems to be a housewife
fan of melodramatic soap-operas. Stan is a guy trying to reach an
objective in life through the study at night and Zoë's character has
nothing positive to keep a steady relationship out of time. His
decision of staying with an unstable woman pregnant of twins is
absolutely unreasonable and never funny. The writer seems to be
alienated from the concept and reality of raising a family. My vote is
three.

Title (Brazil): "Plano B" ("Plan B")
