
I drove 140 miles, round trip, in foreboding weather, to attend the
nearest U.S. opening.

It was well worth it.

First some context.

I've freelanced for decades, including during a war, successfully
exposed major governmental corruption, weathered concerted retaliation
and have been regularly appalled at the weakness of corporate,
bureaucratic and political weasels who abandoned ideals,
professionalism and integrity, "going along to get along." I was aware
of Webb's writing and vilification at the time they occurred, in the
late '90s, but for over 50 years I had a front row seat for even
pre-Nixonian "drug wars" through the "crack epidemic," genocidal
American imperialism, and the treatment of many other reporters who
dared challenge the status quo, who had the courage to painfully
examine the quaint and naive notion of collective national decency.

Webb's story, so artfully recounted and performed, was unfortunately
true. He was accused of distorting the actuality of Reagan-era
hypocrisy, but his reporting was accurate. He never accused the CIA of
intentionally destroying the social fabric of minority communities, but
made it clear that Harlem and Watts and Chicago's South Side were
victims of "collateral damage," the inevitable consequences of the
abandonment of any pretense of morality ostensibly possessed by the
Reagan administration.

Indeed, spurred by new information about the practice of questionable
property seizures, Webb had once again picked at the scab covering the
decade-old, gangrenous infestation of our government, later well
described by Robert Parry in his October 2004 Salon piece, "How Kerry
exposed the Contra-cocaine scandal." To get the story, Webb had exposed
himself to blood curdling danger, both at his own home in the U.S. and
on the scene, in Central America.

Perhaps the worst betrayal of public trust by this film is depicted in
recapitulation of the collective response of the New York Times, the
Washington Post and the Los Angeles Times, after being pressured by the
CIA and the State Department. The papers' responded with hyperactive
involvement in the personal destruction of Webb's reporting, reputation
and life. Previously. the same papers, pressured by Reagan
administration officials, buried Senator John Kerry's investigation,
and shared subsequent malfeasance in their facilitating the Bush/Cheney
administration's illegal and genocidal invasion and occupation of Iraq.

The NY Times and Post had some odious history themselves. Reporters Ray
Bonner and Alma Guillermoprieto were reassigned to boring beats after
their courageous exposure of the incredibly savage El Mozote Massacre
in El Salvador.

There, the U.S. trained, funded and armed Atlacatl Battalion murdered
almost a thousand peasants, largely neutral evangelical Protestants,
and mostly women and children, on December 11, 1981. Stanley Miesler's
El Mozote Case Study, published in the Columbia Journalism Review,
exhaustively documented their fates.

This film captured all those similar disgraceful elements. It needs to
be seen by a wider audience just as it would be wise to make "Dr.
Strangelove" part of a core curriculum in the formal education of
American adolescents.
<|_=00=_|>
"Kill the Messenger" is both a very gripping film and an important
film. Even though I know what our government was up to in those days
(as if things have changed), I could hardly breathe, anticipating what
would come next in the movie. My only concern about the film is the
speculation that those who are ignorant of what occurred in those days
would grasp that the money from drug sales went to buy weapons (it was
almost glossed over). The acting in this film is superb, with one
exception (the person who played Coral Baca--way overdone and not
convincing). Knowing that the film is based on true events gives it
amazing heft. I think it's an unforgettable portrayal of how our
government can go astray--it's history but also a warning for those of
us who have been demoralized by the current state of politics and who
tend to trust certain names in the media. The film should be required
viewing by every member of Congress, by every high school student, by
those who call themselves journalists.
<|_=00=_|>
"National security and crack cocaine in the same sentence. Does that
not sound strange to you?" Kill The Messenger dives into an intense and
important, often forgotten, segment of history. That being said, as the
title implies, the film ultimately centralizes around reporter Gary
Webb (Jeremy Renner) and what happens to him when he comes across this
shocking discovery. With strong performances by the cast and a clear
focus by the director, the film comes out shaky in a few parts but
overall provides a riveting and respectful look at this man's life.

Jeremy Renner is the star of this story, and he performs excellently.
Renner fully commits into becoming Webb. Besides decently looking like
the real Webb physically, he captures a wide range of emotions that the
man would have faced - from being a cool reporter to a struggling and
scared husband and father. Some characters do not impress as much in
their performances, but Renner is able to carry the lead role well
enough to support the film. 

The cinematography and visuals fit the tone of the film very well.
Stylized heavily with its colors and the other external footage it
uses, the film gives off an aged and exciting feel, similar to other
movies from past decades. What ties it all together though is its clear
focus. Director Michael Cuesta has a clear goal of what he wants the
film to be about - Gary Webb. While not all the scenes succeed in
contributing to that, the majority of it is cohesive enough to let
audiences understand the characters without losing the intensity and
action of the larger picture - the cocaine smuggling. 

With its commendable technical aspects and the important subject it
deals with, Kill The Messenger is definitely a film worth seeing.
Jeremy Renner and the director together bring a lot to the film, and
while it's not entirely superb, it gives a good two hours of
entertainment that means something, especially today. RATING: [8/10]
<|_=00=_|>
I try to see every one of Jeremy Renner's films after his great
performance in Kathryn Bigelow's THE HURT LOCKER where he played a
Sergeant in Iraq dismantling IED's (improvised explosive devices) in
the dusty, tension filled streets of Baghdad. I will never forget a
scene in the shower, water pouring over his bloodied body slowly
slumping down to the ground, tears mixing in with the wet spray that
was bathing his body; an attempt to cleanse his psyche of the horrors
of warfare. In KILL THE MESSENGER directed by Michael Cuesta, based on
a true story, Renner is in another descent - one that is politically
driven - in an intense performance as Pulitzer Prize winner Gary Webb,
an investigative journalist for the San Jose Mercury News writing a
series entitled "Dark Alliance" on the CIA's drug dealing connection to
the "Contras" in the war in Nicaragua in the 1980's. "Webb
investigated Nicaraguans linked to the CIA-backed Contras who had
smuggled cocaine into the U.S. Their smuggled cocaine was distributed
as crack cocaine in Los Angeles, with the profits funneled back to the
Contras. Webb also alleged that this influx of Nicaraguan-supplied
cocaine sparked, and significantly fueled, the widespread crack cocaine
epidemic that swept through many U.S. cities during the 1980s.
According to Webb, the CIA was aware of the cocaine transactions and
the large shipments of drugs into the U.S. by Contra personnel. Webb
charged that the Reagan administration shielded inner-city drug dealers
from prosecution in order to raise money for the Contras, especially
after Congress passed the Boland Amendment, which prohibited direct
Contra funding" (Wikipedia)

In this film we see the backlash to Webb's reporting including
correspondents from the mighty NY Times, The LA Times and The
Washington Post who had glazed over the story in their own papers; the
tragic manipulation of facts in order to destroy the veracity of Webb's
coverage of events. We view the absence of San Jose Mercury News'
editorial support at critical moments in Webb's heroic scrutiny of the
research; the Reagan Administration's financing of a war through drug
trafficking pitting "truth vs. power"; the perversion of principle to
the needs of "security" on the backs of the South Central Los Angeles
community. One does not need to "kill the messenger" with bullets - one
can do so through the media attacking the person not the story under
the potent pressure of the government.

KILL THE MESSENGER attempts to portray Gary Webb in his domestic,
familial role as a loving though humanly "flawed" father of 3 children,
with a supportive loving wife (the beautiful actor Rosemarie De Witt)
all in danger and threatened by Webb's probing into the murkiness of
political sludge - the undisclosed secrets of the inner workings of
government aired out inviting dirty revenge. This is also a David vs.
Goliath tale - a lone person who in his "innocence" believes in the
unveiling of the machinations of authority through the pen and the
judiciousness of our legal system. 

The portrait of Gary Webb is a tenacious and vivid study of idealism in
the fight for the unearthing of corruption. I left the theater saddened
and disheartened, but at the same time hopeful for those rare
individuals who are fearless enough to stand up for what they believe
when their support system has been paralyzed. Hard to do! They merit my
deepest respect and admiration.
<|_=00=_|>
It was a movie that made me think, as it involved a different angle to
a subject that I knew something about. 

The trailer suggest that the movie is about the true story of Gary
Webb's article that suggest the CIA were evolved with drug dealing as a
way to fund a war in the 1980's, but as the title of the movie
described the people read the article and ran with their own
conspiracies which lead to a CIA cover up that lead to Webb's downward
spiral.

It is an Intriguing tell of a journalist trying to keep his integrity
while forces were trying to ruin it to keep their own.

Jeremy Renner drove his acting vehicle well, not well enough in my
opinion to win an Oscar or anything, but it proves that he can headline
anything.

Definitely a good movie to sit through.
<|_=00=_|>
Partial spoiler alert.

See this film. As an investigative reporter that worked on a connected
aspect of this entire saga (we exposed one of the CIA drug/arms pilots
and how he was indicted in San Diego, only to get off scott-free living
in New Zealand), I saw this unfold in real time when Gary Webb's own
editor Jerry Ceppos (spoiler here) reversed course and betrayed him at
the San Jose Mercury News. 

This film will anger and depress even the most casual viewer. However,
for an investigative reporter who has never gotten over what happened
to Webb, the only positive takeaway - besides the fact that Webb was
right and he could have gone further - is that the world can now see
Ceppos for what he is. 

The worm went into academia and is out there still lecturing on
"journalistic ethics" - which, as the term applies to him, is the
ultimate oxymoron. 

Considering how convoluted the entire saga was and remains to this day
- this film is done in an extraordinary fashion. Renner is Oscar worthy
here. The cast is outstanding.
<|_=00=_|>
"In a time of universal deceit - telling the truth is a revolutionary
act." Winston Churchill

Gary Webb suffered greatly for writing about the CIA's enabling drug
selling on US streets to fund the Nicaraguan contras in the '90's. As a
sincere but flawed muckraker, he pursued the truth writing for the San
Jose Mercury News and, naturally, incurred the wrath of the feds.

While nothing is surprising given the fame of the incident, director
Michael Cuesta approaches this "inspired-by" biopic also as a thriller
with dramatic underpinnings. The film allows us to be caught up in the
drama of a reporter catching a big one, only to have the fish the size
of Moby Dick. As Webb tries to hold on to his family, despite warnings
they are vulnerable, we go deeper with him into the frustrations of
cowardly colleagues and questionable contacts, who stand ready to
compromise the integrity of his series called Dark Alliance. 

The specter of All the President's Men haunts most stories about
idealistic journalists, and it is no different here. Webb is a
dedicated, overzealous journalist who seeks the truth while fulfilling
his natural-born inclination to cause trouble. As such, his publisher,
Jerry Ceppos (Oliver Platt), must deal with the CIA's and prominent
news organizations' allegations about Webb's uneven reporting, which
jeopardizes the reputation of his newspaper because of his sometimes
questionable conclusions from dicey sources and the incendiary nature
of the allegations, including how much money actually made it to the
contras or how large the drug operations were.

After all Webb's investigations, nothing is more explosive than his
allegations that this cocaine trafficking was responsible for the crack
crisis in large cities like Los Angeles. Major newspapers like The New
York Times went after Webb and his imperfect reporting. His editor
said, "We couldn't support some of the statements that had been made."

Eventually Webb committed suicide even though the CIA had admitted
involvement or at least knowledge of the trafficking. The pursuit of
truth for reporters is not easy, nor has the well-known adage of
killing the messenger abated in the least. This film is as exciting as
any thriller, and just as depressing.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a true story about a San Jose Mercury News journalist who wrote
articles about the CIA and cocaine being brought into California in
order to fund contras in Nicaragua. Good to see the journalist's
difficulties in exposing big issues. In the light of all the whistle
blowing of recent days it's interesting to see the earlier cases that
didn't have the media explosion of today.

It's told in a matter of fact way. There is a familiar cast who don't
have too big personalities so they are believable. Jeremy Renner suits
the role well your typical everyman against the establishment. Mary
Elizabeth Winstead is good too - not to glamorous but watchable.

After watching this movie it makes one want to read up further into all
sides of the story like did the Washington Post attack the journalist
rather than further investigate the issue and how much of the CIA's
involvement is fact vs fiction.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. This is one of those true stories
that probably works better as a drama than as a documentary. Jeremy
Renner brings passion and believability to his role as infamous
journalist Gary Webb. This allows us to gain insight into Mr. Webb as a
father, husband and man, rather than only as a fiery investigative
reporter.

You likely recall Webb's published story from 1996, when his research
uncovered the likelihood that cocaine imported into the US was being
sold as crack cocaine and the profits were going towards funding arms
for the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. The kicker being that the CIA was
well aware of these activities.

The film presents Webb as an idealist, too naive to comprehend that the
story would have ramifications to his employer, his family and his
self. The use of actual news footage adds a dose of reality, as does
the mention of Ronald Reagan, Oliver North, John Kerry ... and even the
role Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky played in outshining the ultimate
acknowledgment of Webb's work.

The underlying message here ... beyond the governmental cover-up ... is
the lack of a true free press. Of course, this issue remains front and
center today, but in this particular instance, it's surprising to see
the influence and pressure applied by outside forces. It's further
proof that any hope for checks and balances from our news outlets was
snuffed out many years ago.

The movie is based on two books: Gary Webb's own "Dark Alliance" and
Nick Shou's "Kill the Messenger". The frustration as a viewer is
derived from the fragmented presentation brought on by steady stream of
new characters who mostly only appear in one or maybe two scenes. The
list of known actors is impressive: Rosemary DeWitt, Oliver Platt,
Robert Patrick, Tim Blake Nelson, Michael Sheen, Mary Elizabeth
Winstead, Paz Vega, Barry Pepper, Michael Kenneth Williams, Andy
Garcia, Gil Bellows, Lucas Hedges, Richard Schiff, and Ray Liotta. That
should help explain what I mean by fragmented.

The story is an important one and the film is worth seeing. It's
impossible to not think of All the President's Men while watching. The
Grandaddy of crusading journalism continues to produce heirs ... even
those that are a black eye for the newspaper industry and our
government.
<|_=00=_|>
To be exact, Kill the Messenger isn't mainly about the CIA conspiracy
which was exposed in 1996. This is more of Gary Webb's journey of
unraveling some secrets behind the story and facing the consequences of
revealing too much classified information to the public. The film
shifts from conspiracy thriller to familial drama to give a clear
statement of what struggles do honest journalists usually get. The
direction seems to have higher interests when it comes to the
conspiracy thriller mode, but when it eases down, it doesn't have the
same enthusiasm. Thankfully, the star of the film, Jeremy Renner,
carries the whole thing, making the overall experience absolutely
engrossing.

The film isn't really that straightforward when it comes to its
historical side, though the first half does have a keen focus on
picking up huge details from one source to another. The film triumphs
when it only stays to that root, taking us to a process of how
journalism works. But that point didn't get much of the flow, because
again the whole message of this film is the danger of getting into this
situation. The other half of the movie concerns Webb's protection with
his family, while it is important to get to know about his personal
life, it sort of feels like a stretched intrusion to what else
interesting happening. The rest of the story, specifically the effects
of the exposé to the public, remains to be a series of real life
footage of mobs and interviews. The film comes to life once again when
they face the actual consequences instead of verbalizing their
paranoia.

It could have been clunky, but the film totally benefits having Jeremy
Renner. Even at its weakest scenes, the actor tend to bring real depth
and tension, joining the audience to what his role is going through.
This performance alone can be an instant recommendation to its
entirety. The direction, as said, seems to spare its energy more on the
investigation and suspense, which could have been straightforward in
reporting the facts and putting the melodrama to the sidelines. The
craft is solid as well, there are some strong production and stunning
shots to be found.

Kill the Messenger is more ambitious in its sentiments of valuing the
truth and going against political corruption, but it doesn't satisfy
enough to reporting its history, especially when the movie is really
good at depicting it. It just eventually becomes a cautionary film for
journalists about exposing a vulnerable truth, showing us the main
character and his family possibly at risk after what he has done. It
works when it finally acknowledges that the government is now their
enemy and building suspense behind Webb's back, but when it focuses to
the drama of his personal life, it doesn't seem to fit on the pieces,
however whatever made it still thoroughly watchable, again, is the
acting of Renner. This is the type of merit that steals much of the
value of the film, even if it's flawed in storytelling, the appeal just
keeps on going.
