
Having read the book a couple of years ago, I followed the movie's
production blog with great excitement.

Tucker mentioned possible Oscar nomination for the script, more than
$200M at the box office and revolutionizing Hollywood.

I walked into the theater with 2 other male friends in late 20s - both
lawyers, one of whom actually went to Duke. We'd been in the bar for an
hour before hand so in merry mood after several beers. One of the guys
just picked up the bar girl he'd been after for months, so cause to
celebrate. I love independent movies. Edgy scripts. Darkness and the
anti-Hollywood approach. Swingers is one of my favorite comedies in the
ilk. The perfect movie for the perfect evening ...

There were 4 other people in the cinema. Hmmm. It did not seem to bode
well.

And the movie begins. I began with a grin on my face, prepared to laugh
my ass off throughout.

About 40 mins in, I was still waiting to laugh. One of my friends, who
hadn't read the book, was yawning. Two of the others in the cinema got
up and left.

So, let me cut a long story short: Poor script. Underlit. Cheap grain.
Little empathy for any of the characters; no redeeming qualities
whatsoever. The story arc fell totally flat. I could live with all that
if the thing was actually FUNNY. Alas, I managed a couple of forced
chuckles.

We left the cinema with me having to apologize to my friend for having
put him through the boredom. We should have carried on drinking in the
bar instead of wasting our time on this film.

Tucker tipped this as a classic of our time. I'm not even sure it would
have merited a straight to DVD release. He said it would top The
Hangover in both acclaim, artistic merit and box office. Half a billion
dollars later, wide critical and audience reception, and marked as one
of the best comedies of the year, if he'd put that sentence in the
script, it would have been the funniest line in the whole movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The lead characters of this movie are smart - this much is readily
apparent early on. I get it.

What I don't think anyone involved in this movie gets is that "smart"
and "not funny" are not mutually exclusive.

The characters in the movie are smarter than the people they encounter
- great. How do they wield it? By lording it over them; it's like
shooting fish in a barrel. Only someone extremely insecure would take
pleasure in this. Descriptions of the Tucker Max character as being a
sociopath are not an exaggeration. The problem is that - unlike No
Country for Old Men or The Shining (also featuring sociopaths)- this is
supposed to be a comedy.

In addition, for all the talk of the realism of the dialog, it just
sounds fake. All the clever diatribes and snipes one after another just
seem like things you wish you'd said after the fact.

Movies are supposed to be about escape and I just couldn't relax into a
world where this guy gets away with so much crap and basically walks
away unscathed, having learned nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to hear Tucker Max talk about the movie at a screening
and he seemed quite confident that it would surpass Wedding Crashers as
the highest grossing comedy of all time. After seeing the movie, it
became quite clear that he was completely delusional. The movie has
poor dialogue, a poor plot, and mediocre acting. I spent a little while
trying to think of a redeeming quality, or any basis upon which I could
recommend the movie to other people. I came up empty-handed. 

If you are a huge Tucker Max fan and feel the urge to see the movie,
just re-read the book. If you see the movie, you probably won't leave
the theater as a fan anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
"I Hope They Serve Beer In Hell" is a poorly scripted R-rated fratboy
comedy based on Tucker Max's book of the same name. 

The movie is based on the so-called "true" stories of Tucker Max's
book. The problem is that it is now coming out that these stories are
likely not that true (and heavily exaggerated) and cinema exposes the
weak storytelling of mishmashed comedic moments shoehorned into a
script that is designed to glorify Tucker Max - the character and the
author - at the expense of drama, comedy and internal logic.

The one positive note would be the quality of the acting. The lead
characters are well cast and deliver the material sincerely - the
problem being that the material is weak.
<|_=00=_|>
I can only assume that the people that defend this movie loved the book
and consequently went in with rose-colored glasses. Having personally
only had the "benefit" of skimming the book picked up from a bookstore
clearance table, I can only judge this product as a standalone product:
and it's awful.

I'm tempted to blame the actors, but it's only because almost every
character in the movie is just so unlikeable. Not in a some roguish,
incorrigible way as I think the filmmakers would have you believe -
just genuinely despicable people. This gross misstep has to fall on the
shoulders of the writer(s) and director. I have never seen a movie
where anyone that has an ounce of integrity or shows a sign of a moral
compass is depicted as the bad guy and gets brutally shot down every
time.

I can appreciate a good antihero; it's just that even the "worst" of
them usually have some kind of vulnerability or we at least understand
their motivation or there is a foil to their character to show them the
way or there is a "real" bad guy to root against. Unfortunately, the
Tucker Max character is so irredeemable that by the end of the movie
there is nothing he can reveal about himself that justifies his malice.

This is in addition to the fact that the movie is ugly to look at,
lacking the production values of most straight-to-DVD movies (which I
Hope They Serve Beer in Hell should have been).
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely hysterical. Remember when Alan accidentally
gave his friends roofies thinking it was Ecstasyoh Sorry about that, I
was accidentally reviewing "The Hangover," which is what "I Hope They
Serve Beer in Hell" is without the funny, wit, good writing, and
personality. I want to do a compliment sandwich with this movie, but
the reality is that I cannot give any because there's none to give. So
I'll just get into it: This movie is bad. Not offensive bad. Let me
repeat: NOT OFFENSIVE BAD. Bad bad. This is the Battlestar Gallactica
of comedy. The plot is hackneyed and worn out and executed poorly. The
characters are so boring and mundane. There's no character development.
There are attempts at it, but it falls flatter than William Hung's
face. Remember that William Hung reference folks, because it's as
obscure and obsolete as the jokes in the movie.

The lighting is poor. The acting isn't dreadful, but there are scenes
in the sandwich added for comedic effect which don't further the plot
at all (The breakfast sandwich scene is just one that comes to mind.)
The characters are so incredibly unlikable, and the ending with the
bouncy castle is so pathetic and ridiculous that it just is assumed
that the writers threw it in there for some kind of absurd monkey
shenanigans value. Skip this movie, it isn't even pirate worthy.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I chuckled once so that explains the two stars. Other than
that, it's a movie about a total douche-bag who's told he's a
douche-bag, realizes he's a douche-bag, thinks about not being a
douche-bag but, in response, only amps up his douchiness.

Mind you, my critique of this movie isn't a critique of Tucker Max- I
hadn't heard of King Douche until shortly before viewing this movie.
The movie is poorly written, poorly paced and, generally, poorly acted.
It hints at redemption but instead sees the opportunity as a chance for
another half-wit joke.

On the plus side, a movie like this can serve as a useful metric for
people you know and/or have just met- If they like this movie, or
Tucker Max, then you'll know said person is a douche-bag.
<|_=00=_|>
here'e the thing - the movie is billed as a comedy but actually felt a
bit like a horror movie. the male characters, are, well, very creepy.
now, i've read tucker max material years ago on the web. it was funny
stuff. but this movie...

it seemed like these guys were getting ready to kidnap and rape a girl
for a protracted period of time before killing her. they were downright
threatening and brutal to the various females they met. i got as far as
the bar/roadtrip scene before i just had to turn it off.

if this were rewritten as a horror movie, about some psychos looking to
brutalize a college girl, i would have stuck around. but the movie is
trying to get me to like these protagonists, and i just can't do that.

also, it was totally unfunny. not a real joke or setup in the whole
thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell is one of the worst movies I've seen in
a long time. It's a cookie cutter story, with clichéd and overused
jokes.

The script is terrible and the direction is even worse. The basic
premise is 3 friends go on a bachelor party. One guy hates women, but
finds love by the end of the movie. The groom is basically just there.
Finally, Tucker Max alienates his friends, but makes them love him
again after giving a toast at their wedding.

Maybe the movie wouldn't have been as tedious to sit through if the
jokes wouldn't have fallen so flat. The Drew character says 90% of his
lines into the air and some of the lines were groan-worthy.

There's nothing redeeming or entertaining. For a movie that's supposed
to shock the audience, it mostly just bores.
<|_=00=_|>
What were they thinking? This film was basically a ripoff from "The
Hangover" and loosely from all those other 'men sowing oats before
wedding' flicks. I understood the premise and accept it. Sometimes you
eat the lion and sometimes the lion eats you. This time , I was eaten.
This film was horrible . Tucker, our main character was an obnoxious
fool, but what is worse, he is an unfunny, obnoxious fool. The same old
recycled gags; Bathroom sounds,handicap humor, fecal matter, misogyny
etc. Where as "The Hangover" was excellent and yes even tastefully done
with funny, original material. This film was not. As the film
progressed toward its conclusion, Tucker was supposedly redeemed, but
he was still an obnoxious clod that one could not root. Basically, He
is Ferris Bueller raised by outlaws. Somehow, he convinces his friends
to go to a town 3 hrs away to visit a special strip joint. Of course ,
one of these suckers is the groom. I do not want to give away the whole
film, only suffice to say Tucker was not a good friend or even human
being for that matter. Blaise acting performances, bad direction and
the worst humor, translate to an absolutely awful rating and even worse
viewing experience.The only good thing I can say is that I did not pay
for this; Although time being money, I wasted an hour and half of my
life.
