
This film is nothing original.

But then what teenage slasher film is. And for that reason only I give
this film 7 out of 10. I feel giving a movie of this style a poor
review is cutting it short for the credit it should get. It is well
shot, the death sequences are well put together and inventive, there
are the comical moments, characters you hate and can't wait to meet
there makers and the who is the murderer guessing game.

Don't get me wrong the film is not special, it's no Oscar nominee and
has so many plot holes it is swiss cheese but what you do get is a fun
slasher flick that won't let you down as long as you don't expect too
much from it.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of sorority girls pull a cruel prank on the brother of one of
their brethren. They wind up taking the prank too far, and it goes
terribly awry when one of them is killed. Fearful for their futures,
they decide to dump the body down an old shaft and keep what happened a
secret. Time passes and it seems that they've gotten away with it, but
a hooded killer shows up on the night of their graduation party to pick
off those involved.

I am not the biggest remake fan. I outright skip many of them, though
I'm not as vehement in my stance as I once was. In fact, a few have
actually been catching my interest more and more as of late, the other
most recent example being The Uninvited, a surprisingly well-done
adaptation of a somewhat overrated Asian title. Then there is Sorority
Row, which garnered my attention for two key reasons; A) I am an
unapologetic slasher fan and B) Margo Harshman has a role in the film.

With that said, I really enjoyed Sorority Row. I did a double-bill with
Whiteout, and thankfully I decided to watch this one second, as it
washed away the foul taste of that nonsensical mess. For slasher fans
like myself, Sorority Row had a feeling of "old school" to it. The
storyline setup, the atmosphere, the wild sorority parties... it felt
like old times. Old times that were witnessed via 80's slashers, of
course. Some pretty inventive kills in here too, just like in the glory
days of the slasher film. No repetitive Scream or IKWYDLS type kills.
And really, if you're a slasher fan, the kills are half of the fun. I
also have to say that I enjoyed the dialogue in this film. It was
always spot-on with the wit, always funny in a dark humor sorta' way. I
actually had the opposite reaction to the characters, as the girl
playing Cassidy annoyed me. Her voice just grated on my nerves for some
reason. The queen bitch was a joy to watch. I thought she was
thoroughly amusing. As for Margo, she was stuck with the thankless role
of the group slut, but she brought her own brand of deadpan humor to
the part. Her lacking amount of screen time was my biggest
disappointment with this movie.

All of that aside, the killer's reveal was also disappointing. The
motivation just wasn't resonating with me, and some of the theatrics
seemed too in line with the lame Scream brand of villains. Still, the
rest of the film was so much fun, I can't help but recommend this to
other slasher fans. If you like this kind of film, give it a chance. If
you don't, well, I doubt you'd be reading this far anyway. It's a
slasher film, plain and simple, and one I'd give the ol' slash of
approval.
<|_=00=_|>
When a prank goes awry, a group of sorority sisters are left with a
dead body on their hands. They cover up the accidental murder, but on
graduation night someone begins to brutally kill everyone involved in
the deadly prank.

Admittedly I went into Sorority Row with low expectations because I've
always had a soft spot for the original House on Sorority Row (1983)
and I feared that this would be another weak insulting remake, i.e.
Black Christmas 2006 or Prom Night 2008. However I found myself rather
entertained by this polished and energetic remake, it was an engaging
ride all the way. Sorority Row has a typical slasher film setup, some
hokey dialog, and the usual MTV-style direction, but it manages to
build some good suspense and action throughout its interesting plot.
Also it has some effectively funny moments of dark humor. In addition
there's some flashes of nudity thrown in along with some inventive and
bloody murder scenes.

Cast-wise the actors are adequate enough though their characters are
typically paper-thin. The biggest standout is definitely Carrie Fisher
as the amusingly tough housemother Mrs. Crenshaw. She deserved more
screen time.

Over all Sorority Row is a fun slasher guilty pleasure that thankfully
doesn't tarnish the memory of a horror classic. It's a worth-wild watch
for horror fans, especially if you don't take it too seriously.

** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
A group of sorority sisters find themselves the target of a maniacal
killer in retaliation for their involvement in a prank gone wrong on
one of their friends and must survive the attacks before they're all
killed off.

A lot better remake than initially expected, as it appears to be a
glossy-looking, safe slasher that intends to tease rather than deliver,
ably demonstrated by the rather low amount of nudity and sleaze offered
despite their being not only one but two drunken college parties and
more opportunities spread throughout the running time that would've
been nice to show off a little more than it did, but also applying to
the gore as well with it's rather lame-looking CGI bloodspurts that
aren't nearly as much as what would've been unleashed had the kill
actually gone down as it should've, yet the stalking in here is rather
good with numerous chilling spots, the finale chasing has plenty of
action and a nice recurrence of the old burning-down-the-house spirit
so common in the Corman/Poe classics and a rather novel killer identity
revelation that works really well. Could've been a lot better, but it's
still really good as is.

Rated R: Graphic Language, Graphic Violence, Nudity, a mild sex scene
and drug use
<|_=00=_|>
Sorority Row starts late one night at a party at the Theta Phi sorority
house on Ransom University, five of the top sorority girl's play a
prank on a boy named Garrett (Matt O'Leary) the cheating boyfriend of
Megan (Audrina Patridge) who lets him think that they are going to have
sex together. The other four girl's have given Garrett a pill to give
to Megan, although harmless Megan plays dead & Garrett panics. Garrett
& the other girls decide to take Megan to hospital but they end up at a
disused quarry when they claim Megan is dead. They continue to play the
joke on Garrett & agree to dispose of the body after cutting it up,
however the prank backfires when Garrett stabs Megan in the chest
killing her for real. Garrett & the other four sorority girls decide to
throw Megan's body down an old well & make a pact not to tell anyone
else for fear of going to jail but eight months later the girls are all
sent texts referring to Megans death as a hooded figure starts to kill
the girls one by one...

Directed by Stuart Hendler this is a remake of the early 80's teen
slasher The House on Sorority Row (1983) which I have seen but cannot
remember anything about other than someone gets a walking stuck in
their throat but I still think it's probably safe to say that it
couldn't be any worse then this lifeless & dull offering. A lot of
classic independent horror films have been remade in the past few years
by Hollywood but I am struggling to see the attraction in remaking a
fairly obscure slasher film such as The House on Sorority Row, however
someone though it was a good idea & what we are left with is a
forgettable a teen slasher with no great redeeming features apart from
one or two decent kill scenes. The story doesn't quite work, even if
Megan & the other girls could convince Garrett that she was dead why
was there no investigation into her disappearance? Surely someone else
at the party saw Meagn & the other's? Wouldn't the police have
investigated? The character's are very unlikable, spoilt rich brats,
wimpy worriers & selfish stuck-up girls who really are impossible to
like & that in turn makes it impossible to side or emphasise with
anyone. When the killer is finally revealed & their motives exposed
it's all rather silly & while they were a brilliant silent killer once
they are revealed they become a noisy idiot all of a sudden. The
killer's identity also leads to the double twist ending in which
someone is is earlier thought to have been the killer so why do they
start attacking people? Why did they behave in the way that they did?
It never made any sense to me. At almost 100 minutes long Sorority Row
drags at times, it's fairly repetitive & never really excites or
interests beyond how the next victim is going to die & how much padding
we are going to have to sit through to find out. All the standard teen
slasher clichés are here, silly false scares, lots of walking around
dark places, shower scenes, a murder at regular intervals & a twist
ending that you will probably forget within a day or two. I can't say I
liked it that much.

Sorority Row looks nice enough, director Hendler fails to create much
tension or many scares but it's reasonably well made with a certain
slickness about it. The kills are alright, my favourite was when the
girl gets her whiskey bottle rammed down her throat. The rest of the
kills all involve a rather awkward look tyre iron with blades on each
side, it's a silly murder weapon actually. There's a fair amount of
nudity here if that's your thing. Originally set to be PG the
distributors decided to go with an R rating, not that it's that graphic
anyway but the extra bit of blood & gore does help.

With a supposed budget of about $16,000,000 this was filmed in
Pennsylvania, the production values are good but the acting got on my
nerves with every character's quite unlikable.

Sorority Row feels like I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997) only
with more girls & nowhere near as good, this is standard clichéd teen
slasher with little to recommend it. Unoriginal, tired & bland.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure whether I heard about this film during the time of its
release or not, but I saw clips of it, and I do like to try the
occasional scary movie with a distinctive title. Basically sorority
sister Megan Blaire (Audrina Patridge) has found out that her boyfriend
Garrett Bradley (Matt O'Leary) had cheated on her, and with the help of
her sorority friends Cassidy Tappan (Briana Evigan), Jessica Pierson
(Leah Pipes), Ellie Morris (Rumer Willis, daughter of Bruce and Demi
Moore), Claire Wen (Jamie Chung) and Charlene 'Chugs' Bradley (Margo
Harshman) help her get revenge. The plan is for Megan to fake her death
by pretending to overdose on pills, they will dump her body in the
lake, and she will eventually come back and freak him out, but when
they get to a steel mill this goes horribly wrong when Garrett stabs
his girlfriend and she dies for real. The sorority sisters and he have
no choice, because they cannot face telling anyone, including the
police, but to dump her body in a near deep shaft so that no-one can
find the body. Eight months have passed, and the sisters have grown
further apart in their friendship, but they may be forced to come back
together when one gets a strange message from someone that knows what
they did, with a picture of the tire iron Garrett stabbed Megan with.
This all comes during the time of graduation, and one by one the
sorority girls find out the horrific intent of this stranger sending
the message, each girl is murdered by someone in a hooded cloak. One of
the five girls is bumped off, leaving four to question who the killer
may be, they are sure it is Megan come back from the dead, but they
conclude it is not after finding her corpse in the shaft. They have
their suspicions, and their house mother Mrs. Crenshaw (Carrie Fisher)
is determined to stop whoever it is despite finding out about the
horrific accident at the start of the nightmare, and eventually it is
revealed to be Andy Richards (Julian Morris), Cassidy's boyfriend. The
reason is that he wanted the perfect relationship with her, but there
were too many people that knew about her involvement in Megan's death,
so he killed everyone that he was sure knew about it, no matter who
that was. In the end he gets what he deserved after Cassidy knew how
crazy he was, fifteen months pass and Cassidy, Maggie and Ellie are the
sorority girls left, everything seems to be back to normal, but that is
questionable when see a person with scarred wrists, like Garrett did.
Also starring Matt Lanter as Kyle. The cast of young beautiful
actresses are only really good for their looks, Fisher does make a
feisty house mother, this film is pretty much Prom Night meets I Know
What You Did Last Summer, a sort of remake, so with that in mind it is
not really that original or scary at all, a slightly terrible horror
thriller. Adequate!
<|_=00=_|>
Sorority Row seems to be receiving a lot of bad press for the same
reasons that all slasher flicks seem to garner - it's clichéd, the
characters aren't likable, the plot isn't handled well, the set-up is
botched, blah blah blah. OK, these ARE fair points - there exists
within this movie one too many "Hello, is anybody there?" moments, too
many "Don't go in there!" moments, and let's be honest, they could have
quite happily pinned the entire thing on someone else and gone to
police instead of covering it up.

However, to complain about those things would be to complain about the
entire purpose of the slasher genre. Besides Scream, Hallowe'en and
Black Christmas, there is not a single slasher that has a shred of
believability (and even Hallowe'en doesn't - Michael Myers is the
boogie man for goodness sake!). We go to see slasher films to watch
people get killed and don't pretend otherwise. These situations do not
happen in real life, why expect any level of realism in the film?!?

So why bother going to see this? Primarily, for the kills. Out of the
10 or so murders, I'd say but only 3 are gratuitous and 2 of those are
badly set up. Again, it's the same old story of bimbo/drunk frat boy
wandering where they should know not to. But for the 7 or so others,
they rock! The manslaughter at the beginning is pretty twisted, yet I,
and many others got satisfaction watching one of those twits from The
Hills getting offed and thrown down a mine shaft. Following on, a
"pimped up" tyre iron is implemented to cause as much gore and
depravity as possible: bottles, mirror shards, cars, flare guns, axes,
fire-extinguishers, shotguns and the bird cane from the original all
are used at some point to bring the death count to a total Rambo would
be proud of. One of my favourite set-ups in the movie comes after the
party, when they are aware that somehow, someone knows about their
little secret. In an intense scene involving many bubbles - because in
the World of the Greek Letters, you are more likely to find a jacuzzi
than a room full of mannequins - one of the 5 get caught out in it. The
build up ranks with that of Annie in Halloween or CC in Scream 2 -
after the girls receive another threatening text, they realise that one
of their names was missing from the list and before they know it, the
missing girl is running, screaming through the courtyard towards them.
Although the scares are few and far between, that scene had me ducking.
The murder weapon, that tyre iron, is set to become iconic if it
garners any sequels (which, undoubtedly it will).

The main characters may not be the most interesting, and two of the
girls really are just plain boring, but there are 3 who stand out in my
mind: Jessica, Cassie and Ellie. Jessica, the bitchy queen, is played
with fervour by Leah Pipes: she relishes every mean phrase, never
misses a chance to put someone down, and when she stumbles across the
dead body of a sorority sister, her first remark is "God, she looks
terrible!" delivered with a dead pan attitude that just rocked. The
fact that, unfortunately, she is governed by a bloke is a shame, but
she redeems herself towards the end, staying true to her bitchy,
selfish nature. Ellie, although a walking cliché in a horror movie, is
played really rather well by Rumer Willis. A girl falling apart at the
seams as she tries to cope with her part in the accident, she goes from
slightly shaky to worried to paranoid to hysterical to catatonic. Yet
she maintains some integrity and humour and has quite possibly the
funniest moment during which the girls are trying to stop her from
finding out that Megan just might not be dead. Finally, Briana Evigans
is such fun to watch. Although her character has no right to feel
better about herself over what happened and she certainly is no Sydney
Prescott or Laurie Strode, Briana brings out of Cassie a feisty, tough
girl who can actually be rooted for towards the end. The other 2 VERY
good reasons to watch this movie are as follows: gratuitous cat fights
(in a burning house with a psycho killer running around none-the-less!)
and Carrie Fisher blowing her kitchen to smithereens with a shot gun,
all the while taunting the masked killer with lines such as "Come to
Mama."

All in all, Sorority Row is not a good film but it is sheer
entertainment. What it lacks in plot and credibility it more than makes
up for in style. it's also the first remake that I've had pleasure
watching due to it's total carelessness of where it's origins lie. I'd
give it 6 out of 10. (yes I am aware I've awarded it 10 out of 10 but
that's because I feel bad that morons would mark it so harsh on its
lack of plot... seriously)
<|_=00=_|>
So another horror remake? Shocker ... though not exactly literally.
What it is though is beautiful. Especially if you do like women. There
is not much acting necessary (which doesn't imply the people involved
are not able to do so), just having to look good and scared. All of
them are good in that regard.

I haven't seen the original (or I don't remember it?), but the premise
is pretty simple. As another reviewer wrote, you could say, just
another slasher. The effects/murders are pretty good, so you get your
moneys worth from that. Thrills are decent enough, though you do know
where it is heading and characters still "act" dumb/irrational, as they
always do in those movies
<|_=00=_|>
When Garrett cheats on girlfriend Megan, her sorority sisters decide to
pay him back by pretending that she is dead, to the extent that they
take the "body" off to a remote site to dispose of it. When Megan
accidentally moves, the spooked Garrett reacts by driving a tire iron
into her chest, leaving the sisters with the problem of what to do with
the body. Cassidy wants to report it to the authorities, but alpha
uber-bitch Jessica browbeats the others into dumping Megan's body (and
the tire iron) down a mineshaft. At the graduation party eight months
later, the girls are texted a photo of a hand grasping a tire iron. As
they begin to die one by one, the question is whether Megan has come
back from the dead, or is there another explanation? Sorority Row is a
perfectly serviceable slasher movie, fuelled by a) who gets it next
(and how), and b) who is doing it. If this is the sort of movie you
enjoy, then you'll enjoy this one.

There was an aspect I particularly liked, and that was the look of the
movie - it is beautifully photographed - points awarded for
cinematography, because it is filmed with much greater care than is
usually the case for this sort of movie.

Two elements which pleased me less, though. One is the answer to who is
doing it. This struck me as the least probable possibility, with a
motive which is less than credible.

The other - and please read no further if you don't like spoilers,
because this is a biggie - is the last five minutes. The climax is
proceeding very nicely, and all looks lost, when help comes from an
unexpected quarter. This turns out to be Ellie, played by Rumer Willis.
Now Ellie has spent pretty much the entire movie as a snivelling,
whimpering, hysterical mess yet, in this final few minutes, she becomes
a Rambo-lite lean, mean killing machine (because she'd do anything for
her sisters, you understand), in one of the biggest and least
believable character switches in the memory of this particular
moviegoer.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh no, a guy is cheating on one of the Theta Pi sisters! Good for them
they have a prank lined up for some prime revenge. Too bad said prank
ends with one of them dead. To make things worse, a hooded slasher is
after them after graduation.

Last year, we got a remake of "Prom Night" that ended up being one of
the worst horror remakes of the decade, and committed a cardinal sin-a
PG-13 slasher movie. Well, look at "Sorority Row" (a remake of the 1983
slasher flick "The House on Sorority Row") as the movie the "Prom
Night" remake should have been-the anti-"Prom Night" remake if you
will. It's not a classic, but nobodies expecting that now, are they?

So, what works?

For one thing, while not a splatter flick, there are some impressive
kills available, as well as a sweet murder weapon that has potential to
become iconic. Also, the performances are fun. Carrie Fisher is a hoot
to watch (her role is a bit too minuscule though) and unlike say "I
Know What You Did Last Summer", this movie makes no bones about the
fact that most of these characters are unlikable and deserve their
fates. The best surprise as far as acting is concerned is Leah Pipes as
the bitchy leader of the sorority sisters Jessica. She's a blast to
watch, and plays the part without overacting or overdoing her
character. In short, she steals the show as far as I'm concerned. The
movie does have it's flaws-it's a bit too flashy at moments, at times
could have done a little more with it's R-rating (there's nudity, but
none of the lead girls gets naked? For shame!) and the final ten
minutes could have definitely used some work. 

Nags aside, "Sorority Row" is a fun guilty pleasure. Sure, it's more
catered towards a teen audience than hardcore horror fans, but come on,
most slasher flicks have been catered to a teen audience. Besides, in
an age of pointless PG-13 horror, 3D gimmicks, unnecessary sequels like
"Halloween II" and "The Final Destination", horror flicks that try to
hard to be hardcore, and horror flicks that try too hard to cater to
horror fans (I'm a hardcore horror fan, but occasionally that can get
annoying), a piece of unapologetic slasher fluff goes down easy.

Plus, any movie that opens with girls in PJ's with their asses exposed
jumping up and down can't be all bad.
