
We live in a society that assumes being overcritical means showing a
display of intelligence. Don't let this film be tarnished by that fad.

I will do my best to make this short and sweet. (Probably not)

READ: (For those who HAVEN'T seen the original films)

This film is a fantastic example of a film that is complex yet simple.
I expected the worst from the film and I received more. I won't lie to
you and tell you this film is on par with something like The Matrix
(the original was) but it is well worth seeing and stands out as
unique. We all know that's nearly impossible to do these days. Please
take this into consideration and go to see the film with no
expectations. You'll be surprised that way.

READ: (For those who HAVE seen the original films)

I'm sorry this film wasn't everything we dreamed it would be, but can
we honestly act surprised when Hollywood screenwriters avoid immensely
complex story arches? They have simplified this story for the masses in
the same way The Lord of the Rings was simplified for the masses. If
you spend your time comparing this film with the originals you will
come up short, every time. This is NOT the original film, this is its
own film that you need to appreciate as it stands (I know that is
difficult, believe me). If you haven't already seen it, please take my
word for it and go in with no expectations, go in cold (like it is a
new experience). 

(Final Comments)

I take user reviews to heart for movies. I appreciate the opinions of
the people more than I appreciate the opinions of the paid critics.
Seeing a 6.9 as the current user score (as of March 31st) is
unfortunate, because this film captures EVERYTHING that Ghost in the
Shell was and thanks to this film IS CURRENTLY. As a film it stands
strong in the Sci-Fi genre and does manage to still be
thought-provoking. Please consider taking your time before giving it a
low rating. 

Understand that the talents that put this film together adopted this
baby from its original developers and they did NOT destroy it, as some
over-exaggerators may proclaim. "The Last Airbender" - THAT is an
example of something being destroyed. GHOST IN THE SHELL stands still
intact. Of course it isn't as fleshed out and philosophical as the
original film (which paid an immaculate amount of attention to detail
and information) but it DOES live in the same world and it DOES tell
the same story. I promise you that if it HAD stayed completely with the
script of the animated film, it would be getting attacked for being an
unnecessary remake or overly complicated.

I've given this an 8 out of 10 because I see 6 as mediocre and 10 as a
perfect film. 8 is somewhere in between. I do not believe this is the
best adaption or sci-fi film I've seen, but it was enjoyable and much
pain-staking work was put into it... that shows when you watch it.
Don't be entirely emotional about the way you view this movie. Watch it
for what it is, not what it is in comparison.

Thank you for reading, I appreciate it. Take the time to see this movie
and take your time before rating it. Really chew on it first, because
it deserves better than it is receiving.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I had my hopes too high for this one. Like many other fans of the
original material, this adaptation has intrigued me since the first
trailers were available online, because it really looked nice visually,
but, Is this movie worth to be part of the GitS universe? 

- Short answer: Not really. Not even nice try. 

- Long answer: The cinematography its truly remarkable, it somehow
reproduce the atmosphere of the original anime, the decaying,
depressing, dark megalopolis is correctly reproduced here (despite the
giant weird advertisements that are spread around, that doesn't really
make any sense, and didn't appear in the anime, what are they trying to
sell?), the costumes, robots, and the general look and feel of the
characters are quite satisfying and solid. The music is not bad at all,
includes some of the original score and it work towards creating a
dense and dark environment. The acting is standard, not bad at all. The
script is.... ohhh boy, let me breath... to use nice words, the script
seems to be written addressed to children or to very 'slow' people. All
the rich complexity, all the mature and philosophical themes, all the
sides of the story that the original material let out to be imagined by
the viewer, all that is gone here. Here you can find a bland, generic
script, that explain a generic origin story, that never tries to get
into the philosophical or ethical implications of human body
enhancements or AI. Where the characters are one-sided, good vs bad
people. We are use to that over-simplification of a movie plot, since
we sadly live in a world conquered by the 'marvel'/'batman' method of
making a movie, where the plot should be simple and thin, the
characters shouldn't have any grays and the action should be convoluted
and confusing, full of minions to destroy for the sake of fill 100
minutes (well at least this adaptation has correct action scenes, that
are easy to follow and most of the time are not annoying). To wrap up,
a correct movie, that shines in the visual and action sides, but has a
forgettable script and characters. It will probably perform good in the
box office, and that worries me because what could come next, it will
be really sad to see how they reduce Akira, Jin-roh, Evangelion or
Cowboy bebbop to a generic action blockbuster without any of the things
that made those stories great.
<|_=00=_|>
If I had to do an analogy, I'd say this movie is to the original
whatwould happen if Mc Donalds tried to make sushi.

Story wise, the movie is both a dumbed down version and has major plot
changes (it's about the same magnitude of difference as between the
book "I am legend" and the ending of the movie that shares the same
name. If you know what I mean, and are a fan of GITS, I just crushed
your hopes hard). 

Also visually, when I thought about GITS (1995 version, which I loved),
I picture something aesthetically pleasing and beautiful. For the live
action movie, aside from the restaurant scene, which looked great, I
didn't like the visuals much, felt kinda cheap (esp. the city). You can
tell the director tried a bit, but all in all, it's lacking a soul. On
a side note : The guy playing Batou was a good cast for the role , he
got the job done.

PS : And what was this BS with Kitano's dialogues ?!? Either have his
dialogues in full Japanese, or in full English, but what they did here
screams "Takeshi did not want to speak English, and the cast didn't
want to learn 3 words of Japanese", it just felt plain awkward.
<|_=00=_|>
When you read this review, keep in mind that I had expected Ghost in
the Shell to be a solid 10/10, and that it could quite possibly be one
of the best movies of this decade. Instead, it's  tepid. I didn't hate
it, but it was a bit like a nice, but not great roller-coaster: nice
entertainment for the moment, but nothing you write home about. 

It has lots of great CGI effects, but the characters are seriously
lacking. It's like they didn't want to give the characters any texture
or depth because that could detract the viewer from the special
effects. I think this is more a question of direction and editing
rather than acting. 

Typically, I feel I can re-watch a good sci-fi movie a couple times.
Whether it's more action like Minority Report or more drama like
Interstellar, the rewatchability factor to me is more a question about
the feeling I get from watching the movie. Sadly, the rewatchability
factor for this movie is basically 0 on my part. In the end, it's like
watching a very long movie sequence in a video game - but in a video
game, the film sequences are just a small part of the whole experience.
And that's how this movie feels in the end: like it is lacking a big
part of the experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just seen the movie at an advanced screening. I'm writing here
because, somehow, there are already 34 baseless reviews from people who
haven't seen the film. I registered immediately to rectify that
situation.

I was truly concerned that this movie wouldn't satisfy me as a fan.
Even though the accusations of whitewashing were baseless to begin
with, I was concerned that they may have westernized or washed out some
of the GITS flavour that I know and love. 

To me, this film was fantastic. I went in expecting to be disappointed
and I came out grinning ear to ear. I laughed as I watched Aramaki be a
down right bad ass. The relationship between Major and Batou was
freakin' spot on. There's a lot of philosophy to represent, and that's
not easy to do in a movie designed to capture and keep attention, but
they did it. The fan service was brilliant and I loved it. It was
visually stunning. The soundtrack was wonderful. Scarjo was an
excellent study of the Major. It was not tacky or cliché at all. 

Please, do not listen to the inevitable vapid borderline insulting
"critiques" that you'll no doubt uncover by the various news media who
were targeted with pumping out a review for a movie they genuinely
don't give two shits about. This movie won't be for everyone. It's
scifi. It's intellectual. It's not everyone's cup of tea. 

But it's good. It's a classic. And I, for one, am genuinely gratified
and impressed. Good work.
<|_=00=_|>
I've watched both GITS films, Stand Alone Complex series and read the
manga. As expected, things didn't reach so far into a philosophical
sphere and at times spelling out the "dilemmas of existence for
dummies" took a little from the atmosphere of the film.

But, as far as bad things go, that's about it. CGI were mostly spot-
on, only one or two scenes pulled me out of immersion. As a big plus,
the film took some time to actually present the world itself without
jumping to action. Side characters were great, I enjoyed Aramaki and
Batou the most, Togusa, Saito and Ishikawa didn't have much screen
time, but still delivered. 

Now, Johansson as the Major, I know a lot of fuss was there about
whitewashing, I don't care about SJW thing, what matters to me if an
actor/ess can act the role and IMO she was a great choice. In most
scenes she behaved exactly like her character should, it didn't feel
forced or overacted to me.

And for the plot itself, I'm not saying it was fresh or never seen
before thing, but it was a nice take and it brought something to the
franchise. IDK if it makes official canon, but in my head it already
is.

I hope this review helps you, it is my first and I've done it because I
feel that 6.9 stars is a lot less than this effort deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything felt very forced. The movie lacks a story. To me it feels
like the cherry picked the awesome scenes of the movie/series and made
a movie out of it.

Unfortunately, they butchered everything and missed the entire point of
the Ghost in the Shell series and turned it into a lame action movie
with zero substance. What happened to all the thought provoking ideas
from the movie/series? I can't wait till someone does a comparison of
the original scenes vs these remade ones, what a joke. 

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
It gets a 3 only for SOME of the visual effects... as others have
noted, some scenes don't work and appear more unreal than the old 2D
animated film.

As for the most important part: the story... where did it go? The
writers of this screenplay had the greatest advantage possible: A
PERFECT, ACCLAIMED ORIGINAL. It was a story which addressed very
complex subjects of mind versus machine: at what point does a mind
become a computer, at what point does a program become a mind? And is
there truly a difference at all once something becomes aware of itself.

That's not present here. It's a stolen identity/conspiracy plot you've
seen over and over, and done better. Apparently they threw the whole
original story out and inserted this hackneyed plot which felt like an
awkward mix of "Blade Runner" and "Total Recall" themes, with all the
heart and soul torn out and left hollow.

There is no ghost in this shell. It's just a thin, flashy facade over a
contrived, tired jumble of plot points... perhaps an unintentional
irony to the CGI facade over the crumbling buildings in the movie.

On the themes of Hollow-wood cashing in on lazy nostalgia grabs (Power
Rangers last week as another example), this leads me to suspect the
heavy tone and themes of "Blade Runner" too will be deconstructed and
dismembered in the remake, until only another empty shell remains.

At least in this case, for certain, the advances in computer science
have lessened the humanity in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me just say for starters that this is a real review written by
someone who actually watched the movie, and someone who has actually
watched the original Ghost in the Shell movie several times before the
live action movie came out, along with Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence
and Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex: Solid State society. The
live action movie delves even deeper into the story lines in the Ghost
in the Shell franchise, and combines elements from all the stories to
create a fantastic action sci-fi that is both intellectually and
visually stunning.

I'm typing this qualifier because the majority of the other reviews
about this movie look like outrage reviews written by people who didn't
even see the movie and are just abusing IMDb's review system to promote
their own political viewpoints. They aren't interested in actually
seeing the movie or giving a thoughtful review about it. They are only
here to trash it and this is why IMDb took down the forums in the first
place. I know my review will probably get a bunch of thumbs down
because people only care if I agree with them rather than whether I
wrote a good review or not.

With that out of the way, the accusations of white washing are dubious
at best. The Major in the anime was in a white looking cybernetic body
even though she had a Japanese name. I base this opinion on the fact
that in the original movie there are characters drawn specifically to
look Asian and if the Major were Asian then she would be drawn that
way. The creator of Ghost in the Shell has come forward to say that he
was impressed by both Scarlett Johansson's casting and her acting
abilities. If she's good enough for the creator of this movie then who
is anyone else to keep arguing against her? 

The argument that a character having a Japanese name means that
character is Asian is also questionable. I went to school with Asian
Americans with white names either because they were adopted or because
their families had fully assimilated into American culture. If I were
to make a movie about one of them, should I cast a white person to play
them simply because they have a white name? 

For those who haven't seen it or are discouraged from seeing it because
of other people's bullying: I suggest that you don't let anyone else
stop you from seeing this movie or enjoying it. I had concerns that it
might not be good because there are elements of animation that just
aren't translatable to live action. I am pleased to say that I was
wrong and this movie took my breath away with both visuals and a story
line that delves into who the Puppetmaster is and what his motivations
are. After seeing this movie I am interested in finding the television
series that goes along with the movies I already have. If a movie can
make people interested in the source material then it's done it's job
IMO.

Scarlett Johansson made an excellent Major. I could tell she worked
hard and studied the original movie closely to mirror the Major's
mannerisms and behavior. As for the complaints that the movie didn't
delve deep enough into philosophical things, I don't think the original
movies did much of that either. Nothing was ever fully explained and
the viewer was left to puzzle out their own answers. These are the kind
of movies that you have to watch with your brain engaged rather than
being passively entertained. The movies aren't meant to be a
replacement for formal study of existential philosophy. They are meant
to pose a hypothetical scenario with hypothetical reasons behind it and
the viewer is supposed to draw their own conclusions.

I do have a few complaints about this movie, but they are fairly
trivial considering the movie as a whole. This review is getting long
and I only have a thousand words so I won't go into my own complaints
that aren't really relevant. Overall though this movie is worth putting
money down to see and that's what matters.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie does not deserve such a low score. I think this has to do
with the fact that this movie wanted to please the new and the old. In
doing so, it attracted low ratings from hardcore fans of the 1995 manga
movie from one side and young teens who don't really understand the
full depths of this movie. Simply put: too easy for old fans and too
hard for young ones. For example I am a fan of the 1995 manga movie but
I really liked this one even though it wasn't as deep as the first
movie. But it was fun and clever nonetheless with good CGI action. The
main character was absolutely fantastic. Personally I think she was
perfect for the role.
