
You know the plot; you also know who is in this movie so lets get to
it. Gore Verbinski has delivered a film that moves leisurely along
peppered with rousing action sequences, comedy, villainy and pathos. It
is solid entertainment. I would place this movie alongside Waterworld,
The Last Action Hero, and John Carter as unfairly panned films which
deserves to succeed in the cinema halls.

It is too bad that there appears to be a hate on for this movie simply
because it seems that a lot of money was spent in its making. But look
at it this way, when you hire real stunt persons, construct and destroy
real trains and stage many stunts for real, it is not going to be
cheap. I would rather support this type of movie-making any day instead
of the tired CGI based effects laden yawners. Every penny of the budget
is on screen in a beautiful shot and staged movie. I found it to be an
enjoyable 159 minutes of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing it and we were thoroughly entertained. Depp
and Hammer were fantastic in their roles and the action was over the
top, as expected. Be advised, this film is told from Tonto's point of
view based on his recollections of what transpired. This is not an
Oscar contender, nor was it ever intended to be, but it is a great
popcorn flick. It is violent in certain scenes and may not be suitable
for smaller children, but for adults and tweens, it is about right. I
did think that the first 10-15 mins or so were a little too slap-sticky
for me, but once it gets going, it gets good. To all of the naysayers
out there, what did you think you were going to see? It is essentially
a western Pirates of the Caribbean, and Depp portrayed his character
with the usual humorous persona he always does.
<|_=00=_|>
IGNORE any bad reviews of this movie. Here's another great summer
comedy (also see The Heat) but without the R rating so it's a good
family movie. I laughed and laughed at this movie. I was thinking it
was going to be a serious take on the Lone Ranger (yeah, yeah I
know...even with Johnny Depp). But very quickly as the movie progressed
I was laughing and having a great time watching these two.

Johnny Depp is a master at facial expressions and this type of comedic
timing. Sort of like Jack Sparrow but without the flamboyance. I was
totally entertained the whole time he was in a scene in this "long"
movie which went by very fast. The other actors also did a good
supporting job with just enough drama to add to this movie rather than
distract.

The scenery is awesome and the action scenes are beautifully
photographed or green screened, CGI'd or real...whatever. I have
nothing negative to say about this one...funny, no gratuitous sex,
violence or language, imo. Just fun. What a nice break...I do believe
I'm going to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
The Lone Ranger presents a new take on the classic characters the Lone
Ranger and Tonto. This film is exactly what a summer movie should be
and one fun ride that you most defitenly don't want to miss.

The plot is as follows: An American Indian spirit warrior, Tonto
recounts the untold tales that transformed John Reid, a man of the law,
into a legend of justice. The two unlikely heroes must learn to work
together and fight against greed and corruption This film is from the
team that brought us Pirates of the Caribbean that includes director
Gore Verbinski, producer Jerry Bruckheimer, screenwriters Ted Elliot
and Terry Rossio, and composer Hans Zimmer.

The film stars Armie Hammer as the Lone Ranger and Johnny Depp as
Tonto, these two have great chemistry that really shows, The Lone
Ranger also stars Helena Bonham Carter, William Fichtner, and Tom
Wilkinson.

The Lone Ranger rides strong for several reasons that include
direction, cinematography, casting, screenplay, special effects,
pacing, acting, and story. Due to these reasons the Lone Ranger can
gain a new younger fan base while still appealing to older fans or
casual moviegoers.

The bottom line is watch this movie and enjoy its incredible action and
comedy that will surly rope you in.... And watch out for some
throwbacks to the classic show. 10/10: Hi-Ho Silver!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a screening of this last night with a friend and to be honest I
wasn't expecting much. From the previews I had seen, I wasn't going to
spend money on this. So Time Warner offers me two free tickets, I
invite a friend and we go and watch this. I was presently surprised
after watching this. I remember some of the Lone Ranger comics and
remember seeing small clips and my dad telling me stories about it but
I never actually saw a show. I enjoyed this movie, it reminded me of
fun action with the family. The violence wasn't ridiculous where you
couldn't bring children to watch it but authentic enough to know not to
try it at home. I saw in an interview that Armie did all the stunts and
you can tell. His work on making the character honorable, noble and
pretty much a decent human being was very well portrayed. Johnny Depp
steals the show with his one liners, a few times I just started
laughing at the comments he would make. Overall i'd give this movie an
8/10. Well written, excellent character development, you actually care
for them and a great job with the actors and the acting. What I really
enjoyed about the movie was that the special effects didn't look too
fake. Yeah a few scenes you may have been like yeah right in your head
but unlike Fast and the Furious 6, the special effects people on this
project do a great job keeping it looking realistic. Bring your family
to watch this, a great story of an iconic character. Hopefully this is
the start to more because I wouldn't mind watching a sequel or two.
<|_=00=_|>
It wasn't hard to outdo the preachy contrived plot of the 2003 Ranger
movie, but this one took a step beyond to become a mainstay.

First, it is an adventure film, a Western adventure. The Lone Ranger is
a mystique character, and part of the challenge is that he tries to
bring men to justice alive. Same for Superman. If they didn't have this
challenge, they would have no conflict whatsoever. It makes for a
puzzle.

Tonto takes center stage here, but unlike the 2003 disaster, he is a
character instead of a symbol of a godlike race. Here, no favorites are
played. The most evil ones in this story are a pair of white men, and
other white men they enlist, but we aren't given sermons about this.

Depp is great as Tonto. The museum scenes are a bit too much for me,
but it is good for the kids. The out of sequence bits work, partly
because they aren't emphasized too much. Depp, as Tonto, craftily plays
this with a subtle humor, and that is just what is needed for this.

There is the magic and mystique of the Ranger, but also an explanation
given for it, as "Nature out of balance". We are dealing with a
supernatural chain of events which do allow the Lone Ranger to ride a
horse through and on top of railroad cars.

Great blend of humor and adventure, and at the same time a crafty blend
of Shakespeare and Indiana Jones. This is better than what meets the
eye, and what meets the eye is extra special in itself, with plenty of
eye candy for men and women.
<|_=00=_|>
I tend to side with critics often, and usually find they are on target
- case in point- Man of Steel - which I had the highest of hopes for,
and felt it was mediocre at best. So, I went in to Lone Ranger with low
expectations based on reviews I had read from the so called experts. I
was a fan of the series as a kid. Was not sure what to expect from
this. Well, This is the Lone Ranger movie for the 21st century. It was
fantastic. What movie did these critics watch? It set a perfect tone.
Depp was terrific. Hammer was pitch perfect - he became grew to be the
Lone Ranger. It left me wanting more, and movies rarely do that for me.
Spread the word of mouth - we need this movie to have legs so we get a
much deserved sequel. Trust me, its GREAT. And my 7 y/o son loved it
just as much.
<|_=00=_|>
Is The Lone Ranger a great movie? Not really, but it is relatively
entertaining.

Is the movie slow in the middle? A little, but not as bad as most
critics would have you believe.

The Lone Ranger is a bit long and does ask you to be patient at times,
something that seems to be lost in the modern video-game world we live
in.

The strength of the movie lies squarely with Johnny Depp and his
portrayal of Tonto. I seriously doubt that any other actor could have
pulled it off. Depp deadpans through several one-liners, which gives us
much of the movie's humor. In Depp's capable hands, the character of
Tonto is both admirable and witty, with a charm all his own.

The first part of the movie definitely gets us started with a bang. It
does jump around quite a bit in the first few scenes, which seemed a
little disjointed at times, but things are tied together well enough as
the movie progresses.

The middle of the movie is slower, but we are provided with many of the
answers as to the back history of the characters, especially with Tonto
and the villains. I will agree that the movie could have accomplished
the same with five to ten less minutes, but that is certainly not an
adequate reason, in itself, to skewer the film.

And the last few scenes are the non-stop action sequences that most
modern audiences love, although they do almost come off as cartoonish
at times.

As stated, Depp's performance is the single biggest selling point for
this movie. I thought William Fichtner was very good as Butch
Cavendish, the film's main villain. Tom Wilkinson, James Badge Dale,
Ruth Wilson, and Helena Bonham Carter all lend excellent support.

Of the movie's title character, I'm not sure that someone else other
than Armie Hammer wouldn't have made a better Lone Ranger. That being
said, the interactions and dialog between him and Depp's Tonto are
enjoyable and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny. In many ways, this is
a buddy movie, albeit with a bit of a twist.

Perhaps, one of the main reasons critics dislike the movie is its
title. For all intents and purposes, this is really a Tonto movie. It
is more his story and told from his point of view. It probably should
have properly been called Tonto. But I don't see that as being a bad
thing at all.

If you take it for what it is, The Lone Ranger is a reasonably
entertaining film, with a very strong performance by Depp. And that was
enough for me to give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently attended an early screening for the film at Disney's
California Adventure and wow it was great. The story is well told and
gives you a good idea of how a man named John Reid becomes the Lone
Ranger who is brilliantly played by Armie Hammer. Johnny Depp obviously
stole the show for his portrayal of Tonto; I thought it was one of his
best characters he's ever played. The highlight here is the two's
chemistry throughout the film, these are two very different people who
both have different perspectives on life and they were just hilarious
together. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast, I
thought some characters were a little under developed and not as
enjoyable as the leads. I wished the villain were just as enjoyable
like how Geoffrey Rush was for Curse of the Black Pearl. So in other
terms the film is not as good as Curse of the Black Pearl but more
superior then the Prate sequels. Go see this movie you'll have a great
time, and people can learn from this movie it's got some good messages.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a little disappointed about the critics' review of the movie,
since I adore Johnny Depp and had been waiting for the movie to release
for months. I was pleasantly surprised. The movie was lovely. It had
action (as promised), a good plot and pretty generous doses of humor
for a movie of this genre. Depp stole the show with his portrayal of
Tonto, but the other actors were great as well. The obvious comparison
of this movie is with the Pirates of the Caribbean series because of
Verbinski and Depp. There were parts of the movie, especially those
where Tonto's actions generated laughs from the theater, which reminded
me of the latter. Both have Depp in eccentric roles which provide ample
comic relief. But since the themes are completely different, I feel
that a comparison is not exactly fair. All in all, it is a good,
lighthearted, entertaining way to spend two and a half hours, and I am
considering hitting the theater for it again soon.
