
In a movie industry cluttered with own-grown hype, gimmicks and lack of
idea, "Kick Ass" bursts onto the screen and shatters all expectations
in it's wake. You're on this page because you think it's gonna be good?
Wrong. Or you're here because you think it looks a decent or a good
superhero movie to join the ranks of the ones you already love? DEAD
wrong. Reason being, is "Kick Ass"doesn't want to be good or above
average, "Kick Ass" wants to be great and it has the balls to want to
be original too. Seemingly impossible in a done to death genre where
we've already glimpsed Mark Millar's signature style in "Wanted", but
"Kick Ass" is all about the unexpected.

Make no mistake, nothing you believe of this movie compares to what
Vaughn and co. serve up for you. Mainly because everyone involved seems
determined to honour the comic and redefine a genre. Most movies
entertain, but this one? It wants to BLOW YOU AWAY! Less smarter movies
have done that but "Kick Ass" ain't giving that up either. It's script
is razor-sharp, dumping the pretension of "the burden of heroism"
crippling even the better superhero films, showing this in actions
rather than long drawn out emoting. Matthew Vaughn has finally solved
the hurdle that all superhero movies suffer, namely how to get to know
and love your characters without long drawn out scenes. He does it by
keeping them moving. The more they do, the more they try, the more you
know and love them. And make the narrative interesting and most of all
relatable so we're with Dave 100% of the way, it doesn't just have to
functional.

The real visual joy of "Kick Ass" is it's desire to keep it simple but
not at the expense of wowing us. Make characters do cool things,
instead of Michael Bay-esquire things happening to them. That's why
they exude coolness, despite Dave's almost humdrum existence. This is
the everyman doing the things we could do if wanted to; not a guy from
another reality or possessed with great drive and ambition. Dave wants
to get laid. He wants to be hip. Even your bad guy in this is
believable. Watching the whirlwind that is Hit Girl perform a routine
almost straight out of Jackie Chan's Hong Kong days stuns us in a way
no big screen chase ever could. Visually the film takes all the thing
we DID love from the movies that ultimately didn't zing and churns them
into a finely balanced flawless brew.

Did I mention it's feel good? From it's inspired use of music (again
utterly relatable) right down to it's outstanding score, like "Get
Carter" for superheroes; I could say more but there's surprises in
store.

In a movie this stunning, acting is usually secondary (as any James
Cameron film shows). Not a bit of it. In a cast as eclectic as the
styles the film embraces you have performances that set a benchmark for
all concerned. Can Mark Strong already better his stellar work? See his
menacing and humorous turn as D'Amico, a career best. Christopher Mintz
Plasse follows "Role Models" by breaking out of McLovin mode. His guy
has layers and he can show them. Nicolas Cage as expected returns to
his past glories playing larger than life eccentric characters but not
without a little sadness too. Joining him is Chloe Moretz forever
destined to be remembered for her first major role. She idolised
Angelina Jolie apparently. Guess what, you trounced any action movie
she has ever made! Moretz dominates any scenes she's in, no easy task
considering her fellow cast! Aaron Johnson has the most difficult job
of all. Being an original uber-geek after Michael Cera set the standard
(anyone who's seen "Zombieland" knows it's hard to write an original
geek even in a great movie). He shakes it, redefines it and OWNS it. He
leads the movie like he wrote it, joined by a cast where even the
smallest roles are fully fleshed out. It's quite an ensemble. A
renegade band of acting styles forming a perfect one and complementing
the film's fun style.

Watching "Kick Ass" is ultimately like being on a thrill-ride, it
doesn't just want to dazzle you, it's wants to draw you in, ride the
wave and leave the cinema on a high. And it doesn't do that with
gimmicks or tried and tested formula's, it breaks the mold, shakes
conventions and wants you to be surprised while complementing all the
movies you already love. It's not just a movie, it's a standard, one
that promises to prove movies like this can be written with great heart
and brain.

And ultimately you'll be leaving the screen thinking "Wow, let's do
that again" no matter how many agains come before it.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been a long time since I have left a screening with endorphins
pumping through my body and the strong urge to learn a martial art but
Kick-Ass did exactly that; I felt like I could take on the world! An
explosive ride that covers insane action sequences, intelligent
superhero parodies and intense dramatic turns, Kick-Ass is a welcome
addition to the realm of the comic-book movie.

I was initially sceptical about the prospect of watching another
superhero spoof movie, most recent attempts at the genre have been
abysmal, but Kick-Ass completely transcends its predecessors through
the use of intelligent pastiche which drives the story forward as well
as providing laughs. The brilliantly choreographed action scenes would
not feel out of place in a Spiderman film, or even a Tarantino script,
in fact it feels like Spiderman and Kill Bill were put into a blender
and Kick-Ass was the end result.

The story focuses on Dave Lizewski, your average teenage nerd, whose
obsession with comic books inspires him to create his very own
superhero, Kick-Ass, despite his discernible lack of superpowers.
Dave's attempts to become a vigilante crime fighter initially end in
disaster but in the process of rescuing a cat his luck changes,
propelling him into the public limelight and establishing him as a
figure to be reckoned with.

It is not long before other vigilantes surface, some desperate for the
fame and attention, others out for revenge, and when Kick-Ass becomes
embroiled in a crime lords devious plans, we are treated to a number of
intense melees that gradually escalate in size and repercussions for
those involved. There has been some controversy over the graphic
violence depicted in these scenes, especially as the trailer is
intended to appeal to a fairly young audience, and that comes as no
surprise when a pre-teen girl decapitates villains on screen and uses
the c*** word. Controversy aside, I cannot deny that this was very
entertaining.

Chloe Moretz easily steals the show as Hit Girl - the incredibly
volatile young superhero with a penchant for explicit language, which
will surely propel her into the realms of stardom. Nicolas Cage is
surprisingly effective as her doting father, and Christopher
Mintz-Plasse is ever watchable as Red Mist. However it is Aaron Johnson
who shows the most promise as Kick-Ass, with his convincing turn from a
bumbling student to a brave and reckless crime fighter marking him as a
talent to watch out for.

An essential part of the film is its eclectic soundtrack, with choice
tracks taken from excellent films such as 28 Days Later and For a few
dollars more. Usually I would be concerned at such a prospect but the
Kick-Ass soundtrack adapts the tracks brilliantly, making them feel
like its own, alongside great songs from The Prodigy and Sparks to name
a few. The choice of music fits perfectly with the high-octane action
sequences and even adds emotional depth to key scenes - not bad for a
superhero comedy movie! 

Kick-Ass is that rarest of films, a successful hybrid of two genres
that delivers an almost perfect cinematic experience. My only criticism
would be that some sequences near the end were slightly far-fetched but
in a film where suspension of belief is required, maybe I'm being a
little harsh. This is an essential film for all cinema-goers, catch it
on the big screen and I guarantee you will be completely immersed in
the explosive yet entertaining world of Kick-Ass

9/10 

If you liked this film you will also enjoy these: 

Special, Spiderman, The Dark Knight and Superbad
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely the best movie of 2010 so far, hands down. Not only
is it insanely funny throughout, it has a great story and in-your-face
action that will (pun intended) kick your ass. 

It's the story of a high school comic book nerd who decides he's going
to take up being a costumed hero because no one else will. Early on he
discovers that society could care less about the evils that be, and he
takes it upon himself to do something about it. But of course none of
the "super heroes" in the movie actually have powers, because it's
about real people kicking real ass. Early on you'll find the
protagonist, Dave, is a pushover and even as his costumed alter-ego,
Kick-Ass, he can't succeed in anything he does. He comes off as an
extremely unlikable character, but as the story unfolds and he gets
mixed up with other costumed heroes who really do kick ass, he slowly
becomes the perfect anti-hero and a character which will most likely be
a new icon in popular culture. 

The script for the film is remarkably well written and it managed to
combine hilarious comedy with incredibly graphic, stylized violence.
Never have I seen a movie that combined the two so well. One moment,
you'll be crying from laughter and the next you'll be squinching at a
little girl slaughtering grown men with the slightest of ease. 

The directing was top-notch and this is the first film i've seen from
Matthew Vaughn. If Kick-Ass doesn't put him on the map as one of the
most sought after directors in Hollywood then I don't know what will.

The acting was superb from the entire cast, especially from veteran
Nicolas Cage. He played his part perfectly and I couldn't see any one
else as Big Daddy. As impressed as I was with Cage's performance, I was
blown away with how well Chloe Moretz, Hit-Girl, played her part. She
definitely stole the show.

I honestly couldn't recommend this movie more, and it has become one of
my new personal favorites. Kick-Ass is a film about finding your
identity and daring to do something no one else will. Yet it's also an
intricate tale of revenge, which is masterfully crafted to be one of
the most entertaining pieces of fiction I have ever had the pleasure of
viewing. 

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
You know that rare feeling... happens every year or so... when you pour
out of the cinema SO excited at the film you've just watched, and every
other word is "ohmygodilovedtwithbitwherethey"? Well 'Ding', Kick ass
hits that sweet spot. Comprising teen comedy, kick-ass action (sorry)
and a healthy dose of comic book style violence and gore, it rocks.

It's Superbad meets Kill Bill.

The film is a fairly faithful adaptation of the comic book, and where
tweaks have been made, they make the plot more robust for the audience
to empathise with.

Kick-ass is stylish, fun, daring, and the dark surprise of violence and
gore kept the balance of comic teen angst fresh: a delicious perk me up
when you were settling into comedy mode. There was never a dull moment
in the pace of the film, never a flimsy plot point, and actually the
audience guffawed their way through the film. Did I mention it has a
cool soundtrack to boot? I've already got it on my Phone.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the previews for this and thought this was going to be one of
those slapstick stupid comedy movies (Superbad, Super Hero Movie). I
came on IMDb and saw the rating and the reviews and I thought I'd
reconsider after doing some research on this. I was very wrong with my
initial assessment. Yes, there's some teen comedic elements to this
movie, but the movie flowed perfectly. Great Soundtrack, great fight
scenes, acting was good, story was great and original. With a current
IMDb rating of 8.3 as I write this, look's like I'm not alone on how I
rated this movie. Show stealer was definitely Hit Girl. I foresee her
having a huge career. Possibly the next Natalie Portman. Reminded me of
Natalie's role in Leon. Which leads me to my next point. Unless you're
into comic books, video games, in your teens/20's/30's and don't have a
young kid, you might be taken aback that a little 11 year old girl is
killing people and using bad words. For those that gave this a bad
review because of that, do some research on a movie before you go see
something that you think you won't like. I hate musicals and I'm not
going to pay 10 bucks to see High School Musical and then come in here
and complain that there was too much singing and dancing. It's clearly
geared at a older teen/young adult audience and is rated R, what did
you expect. In closing, one of the most entertaining films I've ever
seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night my combined love of films and comic books finally paid
dividends, as I was invited (along with every other comic manager in
the Boston area) to attend a press screening of Marv films' "Kick-Ass"
(based on Mark Millar & John Romita Jr's Marvel Comics series of the
same name), which opens in theaters April 16th. A bold move on the part
of Marv, considering they were risking a month of "WERST MOVIE EVERRR!"
badmouthing across the entire state. I assure you that will not be a
problem.

So first off, should you see this? Definitely. As I told everyone when
"Watchmen" was out, if you are a fan of comic books, just go see the
movie - if only to add yourself to the communal experience, to join the
debate. Everyone's going to be talking about it anyway, don't get left
behind. And in this case, I think it will be more universally enjoyed
than "Watchmen". Not that it is a "better" film, just a lot more
entertaining - it tries for far less, succeeds at what it attempts, and
therefore hasn't left itself open to as much scrutiny. Bottom line,
this is just a fun romp with clever bits and reassuringly satisfying
plot points, that had a bunch of jaded comic geeks roaring with
laughter and delight, rooting for the good guys, culminating with
applause at the end. Granted, we were seeing it for free, and had
nothing invested besides a night we could have otherwise been sitting
at home playing Arkham Asylum. But even if discussion later turned to
this-or-that subtle difference from the comic, I don't think many were
picking apart plot holes or questionable directorial decisions.

Overall, the impression I was left with was that it was a kind of
hybrid descendant of "Spider-Man" and "Kill Bill". It has its mundane
real-world-kid-deals-with-real-life-situations side, as Peter-Parkerish
"nobody" Dave Lizewski (Aaron Johnson) dreams of something more than
his boring humdrum teen life. Eventually, like most kids his age, he
decides to make an impact on the world by... well, y'know, donning a
super-suit and heading out to thwart evil-doers. Just as we're getting
used to the idea that of course this won't work and that he'll get his
ass kicked every time, he starts learning how to improve his chances,
and also that he's not alone in his quest.

Which then brings us to the film's outrageous, over-the-top side, best
exemplified by everyone's newest favorite comic book character,
"Hit-Girl". Her operatic, homicidal spaghetti-western character is
delivered with so much infectious glee that you could feel the entire
theater perk up whenever she appeared. The fact that she is played by
Chloe Moretz, an actress no older than the "Planetary" comic series,
only adds to the overall delightfully ludicrous nature of her
character. I'm sure there will be the inevitable stink raised by
parental or religious groups, not so much at the well-deserved "R"
rating, but at this particular character, a pre-teen Beatrix Kiddo and
GoGo Yubari rolled into one.

To wrap up: I think the pacing is exemplary, there really weren't any
dead spots for the audience to shift in their seats. Matthew Vaughn's
direction neither dazzles nor bores, there is much that is derivative
of previous films, but he knows how to build up and pay off an action
scene, and there were moments I was sure how a scene was being set up
to end, only to be pleasantly surprised at the result. I think my
favorite aspect of the film was the use of music, from the use of John
Murphy's building epic "Sunshine" and "28 Days Later" themes, to a
hilarious "that's just wrong" use of the "Banana Splits" theme. It's
possible that with a month to street date, we may have seen some temp
music, but I hope not, everything fit perfectly - even Elvis Presley's
"America The Beautiful"! The casting works, from the relatively unknown
Johnson (whose screen presence in this film is definitely enhanced by
how much he looks like Tobey Maguire once he puts the ski mask on), to
the quirky haunted Nicolas Cage (who for once forgoes his normal
Presley-channeling in favor of some Pure West), to the mostly-British
supporting players, made up of bits of cast from Vaughn's previous
producing / directing gigs. And for the most part, the teens actually
look like teens, not like the 25-year-olds that usually portray teens
in film and TV. Christopher Mintz-Plasse (a.k.a. "McLovin'") especially
stands out, in a role that sneakily grows into one of the most
important and poignant of the film.

I had a blast, I think you will too. I know they've got a month to
tinker around with the film, but I for one hope they don't change a
frame. I think casual "what's playing tonight" audiences will enjoy an
irreverent violent funny action flick, and comic fans will get an extra
treat picking out all the comic book references in the background. I
really can't imagine anyone anywhere watching "Avatar" had as much fun
as we all had last night. I for one will be back, this time with money
and peanut M&Ms in hand.
<|_=00=_|>
I've first heard about Kick-Ass and been waiting to see it since
November 2009. After I began to read the comics and they were very
good! I'm just very happy I got the chance to finally see the movie
yesterday at 10:30 pm. I have never done a review for a movie before,
but I'll try to explain my opinions well.

Let me just say that Kick-Ass is nothing like any other superhero movie
out there. It's not even like any other action/comedy/suspense movie
you'll view out there!

I loved Dave/Kick-Ass' character because he relates to most teens these
days. He was very silly, slow but smart, and was just totally
outrageously funny and had quirky lines. I thought Aaron Johnson played
his part perfectly well. Especially the hilarious but 'kick-ass' fight
scenes he was in. When I first saw Red Mist, I already loved him. He
was a spoiled, annoying and conceited kid. And Christopher Mintz-Plasse
did a very great job at portraying that type of character. It was
definitely something different than 'McLovin' and much more of an
interesting character brought to the table! Hit-Girl was absolutely
amazing and ridiculously insane! I loved her and I'm pretty sure the
audience did too. She can be so innocent and sweet as a regular child,
but when she's in her mask and hardcore crime-fighting purple outfit
she's just stunningly awesome! No one is like Hit-Girl, and I can yell
that to anyone! Chloe Moretz is an amazing actress and she seems like
she has a very bright future ahead of her. I admire her acting and her
movies. Lastly, Big Daddy was not only the most hardcore character in
the film, but he had to do a lot with the plot and storyline. Not to
mention his super funny Adam West impressions. I loved Big Daddy, but
hated what happened near the end (movie and comic-wise).

Kick-Ass the most exhilarating, jaw-dropping, and the most hilarious
movie I've ever seen in my 16 years! I loved every single moment in the
film and found most of the humor very funny. Before seeing the movie, I
got a little scared that it might be just another 'let down' or
'walk-out' movie I'd have to deal with. But it wasn't. It was very
perfectly entertaining and satisfying for me in many ways. Kick-Ass is
definitely one my favorite films ever, and it was just simply the most
amazing and hilarious film nobody can't miss! Not to mention that it
was just super fun and exciting just like riding a roller-coaster! This
is the perfect superhero movie anyone would enjoy.

Thank you America, for not letting me down on this one!
<|_=00=_|>
Kick-ass tells the story of Dave, a common teenager without anything
special about him. Through his sense of justice and some events he
decides to become a "Superhero" and hardly tries to save innocent
people.

Why did I like this movie so much? Well, that's not easy to explain.
The acting was flawless (in my opinion) with Aaron (Dave/Kick-ass),
Chloe (Hit-girl) and Christopher (Chris/Red Mist) giving their best and
shining throughout the entire movie. The storyline, even though it may
not be the most original one, is amazingly well developed. The movie
goes by at a perfect rhythm, combining comedy with action just
perfectly. The music was amazingly well picked and combined 100% with
every scene. and so on and so forth...

When I left the theater I was so excited, so happy and so energetic, it
looked like I just had a shot of adrenaline! And I couldn't stop
talking about the movie. It's been a really long time since I felt this
way about a movie.

Now I know this movie is going to feed a lot of haters. It's normal. A
lot of people walk into the theater with their mind already set, like
"This movie is for nerds. It's going to suck so much.", if you have
that kind of mentality just save yourself the time and don't watch it.
Why bother if throughout the whole movie you're just going to be
looking for flaws or rolling your eyes at every joke.

I loved this movie. I don't care about anything other people say. Kick-
ass is my favorite movie of all time. I have no doubt about that.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who has ever wished to be a superhero, pretended to fly, super
punch, turn invisible or just plain kick some ass but knew you never
could...here's the movie for you!

Although deserving it's 18A R rating, this movie will blow your mind
with awesomeness, yes thats right AWESOMENESS. The main character
Kick-Ass is both comedic, quirky, and relatable (weather to yourself or
someone you know) to anyone who's ever been to high school. His
friends, also comedic, also will remind any guy of their own little
group of three musketeers talking about movies, sports, comics and of
coarse girls. The other heroes, such as Hit-Girl (who alone could
provides the R rating) and Big-Daddy act as a total sub plot to the
film that eventually mashes together with Kick-ass's story. They
provide the majority of the REAL ASS KICKING. Also the characters
actually get so connected with you that by the end you will actually
feel and sympathize with the obstacles and tragedies they have to go
through. Despite all the blood and violence there are some touching
moments in this film.

In all, this movie rocked, it's not for kids, it'll blow your mind, the
filming technique was great props to the director, the acting was good,
the action was sweet, and the movie in total kicked some SERIOUS ASS!!!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw Kick Ass i was expecting more action than comedy.
However, I was wrong with how surprisingly funny the movie turned out
to be. I thought Hit Girl was what made the movie shine as she was
cussing and slaughtering people. Aaron Johnson did a good job playing
the lead role of Kick Ass and I thought Nicolas Cage was good at
playing Big Daddy as it wasn't the typical Cage film. This movie beats
a lot of those stupid high school movies and chick flicks that are
trying to be funny but fail. This is a great combination of bloody
action and comedy. Its the Super Bad meets Kill Bill genre. I highly
recommend this film.
