
I got the chance to pre-screen Last Vegas. I had to practically drag my
boyfriend to the movie theater because he said he was not interested in
seeing the movie but the tickets were free so he eventually caved. 

The movie is what a movie should be, entertaining. Morgan, Kevin,
Robert and Michael were so refreshing and funny together, they really
played off of each other well and because of that the film moved along
at a great pace. I hate when movies drag on and fall flat in the middle
and that's when I start checking my watch to see how much longer the
film is going to trudge along. Sometimes movies seem to stall in the
middle and the drag on but this movie is almost two hours long and it
moved along so seamlessly that the time just flew by.

This isn't a movie that's going to win any Academy Awards, it's not
Shakespeare nor will it solve some huge social problem, it's just good
fun that everyone in the audience enjoyed. If you are looking to just
go to a movie for pure enjoyment and forget about the outside world for
a moment, go see this movie, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
"The love of our private friends is the only preparatory exercise for
the love of all men." John Henry Cardinal Newman

Last Vegas is promoted by some as a geriatric Hangover; it's not quite.
It's rather a sometimes poignant if lighthearted comedy about
friendship and love with a dash of philosophizing about growing old.
Three sixty- something buddies have a bachelor party in Las Vegas for
their equally aging buddy who is marrying a babe over half his age.

The usual bachelor party tropes are there: swimming pools, buxom girls,
extravagant digs, gambling, drunken partying, and pappy love, among
others. But lacing through this usually freewheeling, adolescent
humored romp of a cliché are some thoughts about their 60 years of
friendship and what it brings and demands.

Most importantly is the rivalry between Billy (Michael Douglas) and
Paddy (Robert De Niro) over the girl who got away from Billy and
married Paddy. How her death affects their friendship is touching if
not overly sentimental but real as it continues to color their lives to
this day. How it shapes the weekend and Billy's marriage takes the film
beyond Hangover and Bridesmaids.

Absent are scatological humor or retching; those staples of current
buddy comedies are not in the least missed. Each other friend has his
issue as well: Sam (Kevin Kline) his true love for his wife, who gives
him Viagra and a condom for the trip; and Archie (Morgan Freeman) his
over solicitous son. Director John Turteltaub and writer Dan Fogelman
treat the hang-ups with gentleness, never extending to slapstick the
important challenge of each life brought into relief by the trip.

Last Vegas is a diverting enjoyment, most of which is watching highly
successful actors as if they've worked together forever, when in fact
they never did. Movie magic and friendship themes make this a comfort
film among too much glitz on other screens.
<|_=00=_|>
Without being nasty or vulgar, LAST VEGAS is humorous and heartfelt.
This movie celebrates friendship, especially among four friends who
have known each other for more than 50 years. The camaraderie exhibited
by these stars is enviable as well as appreciated. They have enjoyed
much and suffered much in their lives, apart and together. The movie
doesn't dwell on the negative, but it does unfold at a comfortable
pace. The actors are perfect for their roles, and each relishes the
part he plays. The supporting actors are able to enjoy their time on
screen, whether it is for five or fifty minutes. This movie is about
family, too, and grown children might understand their parents better
seeing this film with or without them.

This is definitely a movie for mature audiences - children will not
understand some of the jokes, and parents will become red faced
explaining them. In fact, children will probably want to avoid this
movie at all costs. Young people from 18 to 30 may not appreciate the
depth of the friendships exhibited by these four friends, and they may
misunderstand the difficulty of these "old folks" performing some of
the day to day antics that they take for granted: dancing, drinking,
picking up women. Getting old is neither easy nor fun, but it beats the
alternative! 

Some may refer to this as HANGOVER on Viagra. I prefer to think of it
as "HOW TO ENJOY OLD AGE WITH A BANG." Or maybe it's a first - not last
- hurrah to be repeated annually by anyone over 60.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a straight up comedy and full of great one-liners. Saw Last
Vegas as a free pre-screening (full house with applause at the end)this
evening and originally had just planned to wait for the DVD. Thought
that it would be another half baked comedy. I was wrong. It's
definitely worth the price of your large drink and tub of popcorn.

There is a message to this movie: life your life to the fullest and
don't be afraid to get old. Of course, it's easy when your those four
great actors. Freeman, Douglas, Kline, and De Niro give one of the best
ensemble performances in a movie that I've seen in a while. Everyone
plays well against each other. These guys must have enjoyed working
together, because it shows. Good casting and chemistry.

Decent story and writing; some predictable moments that are elevated to
another level are pulled of because some things done or said that were
surprising. You'll know when you see it.

Mary Steenburgen is wonderful. Still a lovely woman and her character
adds a dose of "heart" when it's needed. A terrific performance from
her as well. Just the right kind of singing voice for the part.

Pacing was perfect. I didn't feel like I'd been siting in a cinema for
very long. Score was well done (good job, Mark Mothersbaugh!)and
enjoyed the cinematography, too. Big moments were spectacular and the
little moments intimate.

If I could rate this, I'd give it a solid 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is the sort of movie Hollywood should be making! All the
talent in these older actors and actresses and it's being wasted by far
too many tasteless, unfunny, crude movies that you either do not want
to see, or if you are foolish enough to be roped into attending, you
regret with every inch of your soul. In this one, each and every part
was cast to perfection. A plot that made sense, fully fleshed out
characters you like, and just fun, fun, fun. Tell you, there were more
people in the matinée my friends and I went to see than for any movie
we can remember seeing in a long time. And all of us left the show
smiling. This one is a keeper. Would actually love to see a sequel to
this, set a year or so ahead. I can think of several older
actors/actresses to be in the film, in addition to these delightful
players. I'm hoping Hollywood is paying attention. Sometimes they do it
right and use the real talent. The Best Oriental Marigold Hotel was
one. Quartet was one. I could name a few more, too. And this is one.
Looking for a nice break in some of the bleak stuff being offered? Here
it is!
<|_=00=_|>
Lost Vegas was the most uplifting movie I have seen in ages. Being of
that 'certain age' I found it poignant and refreshing.

All the cast were magnificent. Mary Steenburgen was a pure delight. I
know she has taken up music lately and brought it to the screen! De
Niro was great as the crusty widower with a chip on his shoulder.
Morgan Freeman was, as usual, bigger than life. Kevin Kline is always a
joy to watch (I've never forgotten his roll in A Fish Called Wanda!).
And last, but certainly not least, Michael Douglas was spot on with his
depiction of a person resisting the aging process. 

If you think this movie is not perfect, you are probably too young to
appreciate getting older. Buy the movie and hang on to it until you are
in your 60's...you will appreciate it then, for sure! All in all, if
you want to feel good, really good, after seeing this movie head out
the door today and enjoy the ride!
<|_=00=_|>
Wonderful Movie. Laughed the whole way through. Way better than TheHang
over. A Must See. Take your wife or friend they'll Love it. Kline,
Douglas ,Morgan Freeman,and De Niro -- What a crew. The 2000's Rat
Pack. We are all still the quoting the movie lines. Not just for the
older audiences. I saw many young college students laughing there butts
off. Smooth story with frequent laughs. If a critic rated this Bad, I
will not give heed to another of his or her reviews. By the way: Mary
Steenburgen is beautiful. Last Vegas is an entertaining movie with a
lot of truthfulness, and it gives all of its actors - all legends and
Oscar winners - real moments to dig in and play something amazing .
<|_=00=_|>
Four childhood friends who where like a good old gang back in the day,
now 58 years later they all(Morgan Freeman, Robert De Niro, Michael
Douglas, and Kevin Kline) have grown apart and living separate lives,
and all pushing 70. But get a call to go to Las Vegas, for a friends
engagement. Will these four old friends have the time of there lives?

All the great actors here have great chemistry and appears to be having
fun being in the film together. The Las Vegas setting is awesome, and
seems to take on a life of it's own. It was also very funny seeing the
adventure and misadventure these guys get themselves into. It's also
quite heartwarming, an enjoyable film for men and women.
<|_=00=_|>
While this is not just a movie for the "over 50" crowd, it definitely
plays toward them. It was definitely much funnier than "The Guilt
Trip," and not quite as predictable. The actors were, of course,
playing the roles they were made for (and I wish Kevin Kline would do
more, along with Morgan Freedman.) I will say, Michael Douglas looked
awful, primarily because his skin tone was so orange. The beginning
riff on Kevin Kline's life was hysterical, and his final action (or
lack thereof) you saw coming a mile away. However, the secret story
between DeNaro & Douglas was good, and I wasn't quite sure in the
beginning which way Mary Steenburgen was going to jump. (By the way, is
it a law in Hollywood that all actresses must get a face lift?) Anyway,
if you want a "feel good" movie with a good moral message and many a
chuckle plus a few gaffaws, go see Last Vegas.
<|_=00=_|>
With this "A" list of actors how can you go wrong in plunking down a
couple bucks and forget about life for awhile. All the crap that is
being put in movie theaters and being pushed off as movies -- this is a
movie you can feel good about and laugh at. Baby Boomers will like this
movie. It pushes a lot of memory buttons. Good actors pull it off
without a hitch. They take you by the hand and show you that growing
older is not an option but growing old is -- there is nothing as
comforting to the soul as old friends -- and new love cannot replace
mature love. This movie also gives women a glimpse into struggles men
have in getting older. Watch with a discerning eye and enjoy
storytelling that makes you laugh and appreciate life all the more. Way
to go Hollywood-- you finally got one right.
