
This is a movie I was prepared to like because Robert Downey is an
excellent actor and Zack G has proved to be a weird character who can
be very funny in the right film.

But, it just doesn't work very well. This story has been done before,
and with much better effect, in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. The
two movies have a very similar story arc, but in the one case you have
two very funny men playing actual mature adults who have differing
personalities, and in the other you have two men who are immature
imbeciles with differing personalities. The former are likable, while
the latter are just annoying.

Zack G's character is just too bizarre to be credible, but at least you
know where they are going with him. Downey, on the other hand, is an
excellent actor badly miscast here. His demeanor is just too "dark" and
his personality too brooding and cranky to play the part of a good
family man trying at all costs to get home in time for his child's
birth. To be honest, his character simply isn't very likable, and is
sometimes just downright mean, even spitting in an innocent dog's face.
This is in stark contrast to the frustrated everyman played by Steve
Martin in P,T,&A - a person every traveler (stuck next to an obnoxious
slob) understands implicitly. Another example of such a role being done
to perfection is Jack Lemmon in The Out of Towners.

I suppose it didn't help that the theater was packed with very young
children who had no business going to this movie. The very crude
language, extensive drug imagery, and graphic masturbation scenes,
while funny for adults, were grossly inappropriate for 5-12 year olds
in the crowd. Some people clearly are not cut out to be parents.

Perhaps the most memorable line in the movie was Downey proclaiming
that he had never done drugs in his life. Given Downey's well
documented real-life problems, his statement in the movie couldn't help
but make the audience compare the character to reality, thus serving to
knock down the "4th wall" in the process. No doubt the contrast was
created by intent, but I'm not sure it was a great idea.

As Steve Martin, John Candy, and Jack Lemmon proved, superior comedy
and deeper laughs come from brilliant acting and comic timing. If you
have to resort to endless gutter language, potty humor, and
masturbating canines, you have already lost the game before it starts.
<|_=00=_|>
The critics are being pretty harsh on this film, and yet they give high
praise to such films like Role Models and Get Him to the Greek, so go
figure. But I had a lot fun with Due Date, It was a fun slapstick
misadventure, almost what we loved about The Hangover, so it is clear
to say I don't agree with the critics on this one.

Peter(Robert Downey Jr) an architect looking to get home to his
pregnant wife(Michelle Monaghan) who is expecting in a week. And when
he gets on a plane, he quickly gets kicked off, when he gets into an
unfortunate incident with Ethan(Zach Galifianakis) a pot smoking moron,
and wanna be actor, who is obsessed with the show Two and a Half Men.
When Peter is looking for new ways to get home. Ethan has a car and
offers to drive him. Although it is against Peters better judgment, but
feeling there is no other way, he goes with him. Will Peter make it on
time for his child's birth, or will Ethan drive him nuts during this?

A lot of people said this is a Plane,Trains and Automobiles ripoff, but
you know what who cares. This was a funny laugh out loud film. Downey
and Galifianakis have funny chemistry, they just play off each other
perfectly. Like The Hangover it is one entertaining misadventure, I say
don't listen to the critics, see this movie and form your own opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
When you make a road trip movie, and you have two mismatched characters
sharing that road, one can't help but to think back to John Hughes 1987
masterpiece Planes Trains and Automobiles. It might not be right, but
unfortunately, it just happens. And when you do, you come up with the
conclusion that this film is a food stamps version of the real deal.
While Todd Phillips is talented and Zack Galifinakis and Rober Downey
Jr. are fine actors, the material in this film is just mean. In every
way.

In PTA you had a work-a-holic who was trying to get home for
Thanksgiving only to get stuck next to a slob. John Candy was that slob
and for all of the shortcomings of his character, Del Griffith, the
character, knew he was a bit of a slob, he knew he was a bit annoying
and he knew that he was a bit hard to get along with. But when all was
said and done, he was a sweet man and absolutely knew WHO HE WAS. If
you compare him to Zack's character, it's like comparing a character
after he has been through the editing process 17 times as opposed to
the original draft that Galifinakis seems that he is. Candy might have
been written like Galifinakis' character is at the beginning, but
Hughes took the time to polish and shine him. And what we were left
with a family man, indelibly devoted to his wife and a man who was
giving, honest, kind and principled. He was flawed no doubt, but he
wasn't a jerk. The same can be said about Neil Page, flawed, but a
decent human being.

Due Date has unlikable characters. I mean every single character in
here (with the exception of Downey's wife) is a complete jerk at times.
Ethan Trembley is so over the top that you just can't take him
seriously. He is just mean and he is such a slob that you have no
empathy for him. Peter Highman is an angry, violent rage of a volcano
that even when he is being helped across country to see his wife, he
finds it hard to be nice. This is a man who will punch a child, spit in
a dog's face and leave a man broke at a rest room while stealing his
car. I found it hard to like any character in the film, but especially
the two leads.

With PTA, there was humour in the situations. In Due Date, it's just
not that funny because in this film, you have crack whores, lots of
drugs, unrealistic and cringe-worthy situations, and scene after scene
of incredulous acts that would get you punched out in real life. To see
a man masturbate in the seat beside you is not funny. However, seeing
the dog do it, I have to admit, is.

Due Date sis not entirely unfunny. There are sporadic scenes of humour.
And Downey is good, as always. But like I said, maybe it's just wrong
to compare it to PTA, but there were laugh out loud scenes like the car
rental scene, "You're going the wrong way", "those aren't pillows", "do
you think this vehicle is safe?" and so on on. Then at the end you have
the cover of Every Time You Go Away and it fits perfectly with the tone
of the film. At the end of this, you just have Zak being Zak.

I wanted to like this, but it disappointed me immensely.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
After R.D.J.'s excellent performance in Sherlock Holmes, I thought it
would be a pretty safe bet that he wouldn't be into making
turkeys.Unfortunately ,I was wrong. This film is everything a movie
shouldn't be.It is gross, offensive and totally without merit.One can
only ask Why????? Robert Downey Jr chose this dross to perform.The
comparison to Planes,Trains and Automobiles is all too clear- but that
was an excellent piece of film making and Due Date just isn't.The 2
characters don't mesh, there is no growing bond which you see in Planes
etc it's too unbelievable that R.D.J's character who has some
intelligence would ever stoop to find worth in anything his overbearing
unstable road partner would do.Suddenly in one leap- he confesses he
"loves" the guy.And wants to stay in touch. The charm and poignant
detail of Planes is sadly lacking.There is no character development,we
don't have emapathy for the nerd character,and by the end of it,I had
none for R.D.J's character either.An embarrassment to R.D.J's great
track record, a bitter blow to your pocket and expectations of an
entertaining night out.This film sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
Recipe for a bad movie. Remake a great movie, "Planes, Trains and
Automobiles" with many good actors. Discard the potential of Michelle
Monaghan and Jamie Foxx. Add canned Juliette Lewis and Danny McBride
shtick to save time. Make the Steve Martin character unlikable. Make
the John Candy character sinister and unlikable. Imagine how one would
react to the antics of the other, and then on occasion, invert the
reaction. (That adds suspense!) Re-write PT&A with more action by
disconnecting the vignettes; this gives you the freedom to create
disasters and then re-start the plot with the leads not dead or in
jail, like Saturday morning cartoons. Here's your inspiration - when
you do "man slips on a banana peel", don't be afraid to make the
audience be the man, make them feel the pain of tailbone falling on
concrete. After 98 minutes of bone breaking aggression and multiple
felonies, add a "oh my god, my kid is black" site gag, make sure
everyone loves one another, sprinkle with pot jokes and sell while
actors' reputations are still hot.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie with my wife and had no idea what to expect as we
had not read any reviews. We just watch anything with RDJ and ZG in it.

However it wasn't long before we both mentioned that this was
strikingly similar to Planes Trains and Automobiles, but with the
difference that the characters just aren't likable - particularly RDJ's
character, who is apparently a selfish jerk with occasional moments of
humanity.

I want a comedy with these guys to leave me with a good feeling. This
left me very disappointed and kind of sad that it's apparently
acceptable these days to be a selfish jerk as long as you come good in
the end.

A sad copy of a classic.
<|_=00=_|>
We went to see this without knowing anything about the plot. We went to
see it because Robert Downey Jr. was in it and we were in the mood for
a few laughs.

Sadly, we got very few laughs. The plot seemed disjointed causing it
not to flow very well. And the majority of the intended humor used
graphical juvenile antics better suited for locker room pranks than a
supposed Hollywood comedy.

A common attribute of high level movies no matter the genre is to have
the audience care about the characters; either liking them or wishing
them to meet their end. But in this movie all that was missing. The
main characters had few redeeming qualities to latch on to. All that
was left was a large amount of indifference...we really didn't care if
either of them made it to L.A. or fell off the cliff at the Grand
Canyon.

It's not the worst movie ever made, but it will do until that one comes
along.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was trying to be funny but it wasn't the only things funny
in it was the kid pulling on Downy Jr's tie repeatedly and then
jab/punch the kid in the stomach because he was misbehaving, the dog
masturbating scene and the trio (downey,jamie foxx and zach)
accidentally drinking the ashes mistaken for coffee.

You can skip to those scenes but actually watching a movie that goes
for over an hour and a half is tiresome and annoying, because you have
to put up with the obnoxious character Ethan (from the Hangover)who
always acts like Drop Dead Fred except his the total opposite and is
just plain annoying without any of the humour. Even at the end he was
still the same, there is nothing likable about him for being a jerk.
His bad from start to finish.

Peter (Downey Jr.) was the serious cast while all this was happening he
just puts up with Ethan's recklessness and doesn't retaliate and only
banters at him in a non-funny way. Jamie Foxx is only in this movie for
10 mins and the pickup truck going over potholes would be funny if
there was not a dog falling all over the place also it get's spat on by
Peter. The way they portrayed animal abuse made it less funny same with
talk about child services. For a comedy movie it doesn't have much
humour.
<|_=00=_|>
There had been in my humble opinion a major lack of entertaining and
good comedies in the film market, but then out of the blue I stumbled
upon The Hangover. A film I didn't know anything about before I went to
see it in the cinema. Just a few seconds into the film I started
smiling and laughing, and they kept on pushing it, and I think there
wasn't one single dull nor boring sequence throughout the whole movie.
The reason why I'm telling you this is because watching Due Date gave
me the exact same amazing comedy experience as The Hangover, and that
speaks for it self! 

Furthermore, the acting by especially Robert Downey Jr. and Zach
Galifanakis were both top notch, and I thoroughly swallowed every word
they said.

If you're in for a treat and hunger for laughs go watch Due Date as
soon as you can! I honestly feel like I don't have words to describe it
as well as it deserves, but I gave it my best shot and I hope you've
got the message! 

PS: I had the pleasure of seeing it in an early screening. The original
premiere date is November 5th.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that Due Date operates under the main premise that the viewer
has never heard of Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, for if they had,
they'd be wondering why they were watching the same movie with all the
jokes stripped out. Due Date is, in total, neither a terrible nor an
offensive film. Its problem is that it's a little too bitter, thus
eliminating with surgical precision any empathy we might have for its
two protagonists. It's a road trip with an obvious end in sight and
somewhat unpredictable wacky hijinks in between. You could do worse,
but you could do much better.

Peter Highman (Robert Downey, Jr.) is an architect who's attempting to
fly out of Atlanta back home to Los Angeles to be with his wife
Michelle Monaghan, who's about to give birth. But thanks to a bag mixup
with a fellow traveler named Ethan Trembley (Zach Galifianakis), Peter
finds himself stranded in Atlanta, placed on the national No Fly list
(minor misunderstanding, of course). Ethan offers him a cross-country
ride in his rental, and off we go.

The movie uses the trope of mismatched people enduring a common
experience. Peter is uptight, dithering endlessly about what to name
his newborn. Ethan is, well, flighty. In fact, Galifianakis seems to be
playing the same character he played in the two Hangover films:
childlike, maybe psychopathic and/or sociopathic, not all there. He's
wildly misinformed about such things as the Grand Canyon and the Hoover
Dam, but he is heading west to try to make it as an actor in Hollywood.
Oh, and did I mention he's carrying the ashes of his deceased father in
a coffee can to dispose of along the way? Well, there's that, too.

You and I both know that there's no way Peter and Ethan will make it
from Georgia to California without any problems. But Peter has no
choice - his wallet was confiscated at the airport, and his bags are on
their way to LA. He has no cash and no ID. It could happen to anyone.
So he's essentially at Ethan's mercy. Along the way, we learn much
about the characters and what makes them tick, but whereas the earlier
Planes, Trains got melancholy without getting maudlin, this one
achieves no such feat.

Downey, Jr. and Galifianakis give it their best shot, and to tell the
truth they're not bad. They make an okay team; it's just that it's a
teaming we've seen before, and much better. Steve Martin and John Candy
got into their share of situations that would never happen to a normal
person, but they also ran into problems with which we could all relate;
here, it's more of the former than the latter. It's as if the movie
keeps daring itself to get weirder and weirder.

The final, near-fatal flaw of the movie is that it really doesn't give
you anyone to root for - except of course at the end. It's a comedy,
after all. But these guys do some rather nasty things to each other,
and not in the oh-no-he-didn't sort of way, either; rather, in the
scowling, almost hateful way. It's a little disconcerting at times. But
the actors do their best, as I said, and you could do worse.
