
Opening up with the shooting of Aldos Snow's latest music video and
then showing his downward spiral that leads to present day was the
hilarious, perfect beginning for this innovative comedic spin-off. If
you saw 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall' then this is exactly what you would
expect a movie about Aldos Snow to be like. This movie has a heart that
I did not expect to see, it's buried under lewd, vulgar and brilliant
wit, but it's in there.

Russell Brand just opens his mouth and his words are comedic gold.
Jonah Hill takes a step out of his comfort zone, a bit, and plays a "no
confidence good guy". (Usually he's the overconfident prick, for all
you naysayers). Diddy delivers a surprisingly strong performance that
I'm sure shocked anyone who sees him. He's actually hilarious! His
repartee with everyone he comes into contact with is spot-on. The
entire cast has hilarious one-liners and the two main characters really
make this movie a joy to watch.

The plot is actually a creative one, something we don't see a lot of
nowadays. Albeit the humor treads into "familiar gross-out" jokes,
there are clever jokes too. But it's all you have to expect when
following "Rock and Roll personified". Another point I was surprised by
was that a lot... a lot of the scenes from the trailers were not in the
movie. I thought that was a good and bad thing. Good because it didn't
show us stuff we've already seen and gave us the chance to see new
stuff. But bad because a few of the scenes were real funny.

For the critics who are hating this movie: Do you like comedy? Do you
like Apatow's stuff? Do you like Russell Brand or Jonah Hill? If the
answer is no to any 2 of these... why are you reviewing this movie?
Your opinion is pointless for the people that actually DO like these
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
The now very famous but widely despised Russell Brand made his
breakthrough in 2008's "Forgetting Sarah Marshall", in which he played
Aldous Snow, the lead singer of the fictional rock band, Infant Sorrow.
In this 2010 spin-off sequel, the comedian got to reprise his role from
the previous film, but this time, it was one of the two lead roles. As
frightening as this may sound to a lot of people, I do think Brand is a
funny comedian, and I found the 2008 Apatow Productions film he
appeared in to be an overall funny and satisfying farce, so I was
obviously interested in seeing this follow-up. I wasn't expecting "Get
Him to the Greek" to be as good, and had noticed a lot of criticism of
it, making my expectations a little lower. It turned out that I found
it a LOT funnier than many others have, but it certainly doesn't stay
as consistent as it could.

Infant Sorrow frontman Aldous Snow, whose current girlfriend is pop
star Jackie Q, makes an album with his band called "African Child",
with the title track as a single, but this turns out to be a critical
and commercial disaster! The singer has now been sober for seven years,
but his relationship with Jackie fails, and he relapses, abusing
alcohol and illegal drugs again after all these years! This makes him
spiral out of control and ruin his career! Meanwhile, Aaron Green is a
lowly Los Angeles talent scout who works for Pinnacle Records, a
company which is currently in a financial rut. He is also a hardcore
Infant Sorrow fan, so he suggests to Pinnacle Records head Sergio Roma,
who is looking for ideas to save the company, that they have Aldous
perform at the Greek Theatre on the tenth anniversary of his big show
at that venue. Sergio sends Aaron on a flight to London to escort the
washed-up rock star to Los Angeles, and tells him he has 72 hours to
get the man to the Greek Theatre. Unfortunately, several complications
will make it difficult for Aaron and Aldous to make it to this major
gig on time! 

Aware of the criticism by the time I watched this, I thought maybe it
really would turn out to be lame, and a major disappointment after
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall", but that wasn't the case for me. I soon
found myself laughing (sometimes lightly) as the film shows Aldous and
his girlfriend and what goes wrong. More funny parts follow as we are
introduced to Aaron Green and his life in L.A., and at this point, it
helps that Sean "P. Diddy" Combs is funny as the short-tempered Sergio
Roma. There are times when the film lags around this point, but not
usually. I think it gets funnier when Aaron meets Aldous in London, and
we hear what Aldous' mother thinks of his father. On the flight back to
the United States, the conversation between Aaron and Aldous is another
comic highlight, with Aaron admitting what he really thinks of "African
Child" and the Infant Sorrow frontman's reaction to this. The big
laughs continue with all the problems these two characters face as the
talent scout tries to get the singer to their destination before the
time is up. Sure, there are some pretty lame gags, but these are fairly
rare. However, after a while, it wears a bit thin, and it sometimes
gets kind of disturbing with Aldous' drug problems and what happens
when he gets Aaron to smoke some of these drugs without the talent
scout knowing, though I'm certainly not saying that it's all
straight-faced from this point on.

Other viewers can hate this movie and look down on anyone who likes it
all they want, but after watching such lousy attempts at comedy as
"Ed", "My Boss's Daughter", and "The Master of Disguise" recently, I
have to say that this one is a LOT funnier than those! "Get Him to the
Greek" is the first comedy I've seen in a few weeks that has actually
made me laugh a lot, so I have to give it credit for that! Still, even
all those bad comedies didn't make this one look like a work of genius
to me, as I could still see the flaws in it, which eventually get more
significant as the movie progresses. Since this is another effort from
Apatow Productions, you can obviously expect it to be very raunchy, and
some scenes could gross you out, but even if you can take this and are
prepared for it, and even if you like "Forgetting Sarah Marshall", you
could find "Get Him to the Greek" disappointing. Still, while many
would disagree, I certainly think it could have been MUCH worse, and it
can obviously please certain audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great. I expected considering how much I enjoyed
Forgetting Sarah Marshall, and how much I enjoy Jonah Hill in general.
I was not disappointed. The only reason that I did not give this movie
a higher rating was because it was so ridiculous and unbelievable. I
could not stop laughing out loud in the theater and neither could the
rest of the audience (which was decent sized for a mid week night time
showing after release). If you do not like drinking, drugs, and sex
than I would recommend that you do not even come close to this one. It
is above the top in all three of those aspects. You may be offended by
some things, but that is the whole point of the movie... enjoy it. See
it soon, I foresee this one growing in popularity as word of mouth
spreads. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailers for Greek, they looked moderately funny. I
hadn't seen Sarah Marshal, so I had no idea what that was all about.
But, reviews were good and I thought, hey, what the heck. What I found
was a very funny Apatow-filmish take on the rock n roll film. All the
elements of a usual Apatow troop film are there: focus on unusual
moments, sex drugs and gross out humor, friendship and some serious
moments, and the breaking down of typical film trappings. Suffice to
say, this is a great summer comedy.

The film, as many know, charges Allen Green with getting washed up rock
star Aldous Snow to the Greek Theater in LA for a 10th anniversary
concert. As one would guess, things don't go accordingly, and a whole
lot of comedy ensues. The film, more than anything, is essentially a
rock pic. It's about the life of this rock star who has burned out his
bulb and is attempting to put in a new one. And as Aldous Snow, Russel
Brand is fantastic. He truly embodies this rock star and you feel he
really IS this character. He boozes it up, drugs it up, sexes it up,
and whatever other manner of things a rock star might abuse. He's a
mess of a guy, and like so many famous people who have gone south, he's
a complicated person who has let fame get the best of him. This is
translated extremely well. Despite all the comedy, this is an excellent
rock and roll biopic type film. Jonah Hill is great as the lead
character with baggage of his own and he does what he does best here,
although he plays a more awkward kind of character versus his geek-in-
charge style that we're so accustomed too.

Stealing the show, however, is Sean Combs, who plays Green's boss
Sergio. Every scene he is in is hilarious and he is surprisingly funny.
It was definitely pleasant to see him pull off such a funny role. The
other supporting characters are great, doing a fine job of being very
funny themselves. Most of the film falls into stages of comedy bits,
and all are pretty damned hilarious. There's nothing here that's too
ridiculous, which is nice. There is once scene that kind of makes you
raise a brow, but it's just so damn funny, you forget how insane it is.
And that's really the charm of the film. Everything about it is larger
than life, yet believable. This is exactly why it perfectly molds both
the rock star film and an Apatow comedy so perfectly. It's the kind of
comedy you would expect it to be, while not knowing exactly what is
going to happen. If you don't like these kinds of comedies, this one
may not be for you. But if you've enjoyed other films like Sarah
Marshal, Pineapple Express, and other Apatow troop films, you'll find
Greek hilarious. I know I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Unexpectedly funny, with many celebrity cameos, very grotesque on-drugs
characters... Develops the same charm as "Fear and loathing in Las
Vegas" while maintaining a certain message and character development.

The movie picks up issues most people (obviously - judging by other
review s here on IMDb - not all) have thought or dreamed about. How
would it be to go anywhere anytime you want, have any woman you want,
use drugs whenever you want. Would it be a lonely life, is it
destructive? What would you do or react if you were thrown into such a
lifestyle, if only for a few days?

This movie made me laugh heartily while giving me things to think
about. Absolutely grand and absolutely hilarious.

WARNING: Expect this movie to be an underachiever concerning ratings
because of moralists all over the world though. So if you're an open
minded person, easily add 20% to your average rating and enjoy!

Very fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I kept hearing Get Him to the Greek, being compared to The Hangover,
which I loved and thought extremely funny. Get Him to the Greek was at
times more disturbing, pathetic, and gross than funny. I should have
waited for it to come out on video. Normally you can hear people laugh
around you, but I do not recall hearing anyone really laughing. My son,
son-in-law and daughter also saw it. They said they liked it but they
usually will instantly start talking about the movie and playing out
some of the scenes, but that did not happen either. So it leads me to
feel, they were not very thrilled by it. My son actually said he could
have done without the threesome scene. They all agreed, not near as
good as The Hangover.
<|_=00=_|>
They should have called this movie "My Favorite Rock Star" because
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall" director Nicholas Stoller scenarist Jason
Segel look like the Peter O'Toole comedy "My Favorite Year" inspired
them. Pinnacle Record President Sergio Roma (Sean Combs) is searching
for a surefire hit to keep his brood of kids in Air Jordans when an
intern Aaron Green (Jonah Hill of "Super Bad") suggest that they stage
a comeback concert at the Greek Theater for washed up British rocker
Aldous Snow (Russell Brand of "Forgetting Sarah Marshall")whose career
tanked after he produced an album called "African Child." Sergio packs
Aaron off on a trans-Atlantic flight to London to pick up Snow and
bring him back in 72 hours. Meanwhile, Aaron and his live-in girlfriend
Daphne (Elisabeth Moss of "Did You Hear About the Morgans?") are having
relationship woes. She is a hospital intern who is worked so hard that
she doesn't get to spend much time with Aaron. She finds a job in
Seattle that would give them more time together, but it would force
Aaron to look for a new job. They decide to break up and Aaron flies
off to England. Of course, the comedy here is that Aldous is a
drugged-out rock & roller who cannot get enough booze and narcotics
into his system while straight-laced Aaron does his best to keep him
off drugs and get him onto the plane. The irony is that Aaron
eventually winds up doing all of Aldous's narcotics. At one point,
Aaron has to stuff a ball of heroin up his anus so that the two of them
can slip past the airport checkers. Aaron discovers what it is like to
be a free-wheeling, drugged out guy and gets laid once in a bathroom by
a woman and later is raped by a drugged out Vegas chick called Destiny
who stuffs a dildo up his butt while she straddles him in bed. Indeed,
poor Aaron does virtually everything to nurse maid Aldous to the
concert. The jokes are not that funny and the formulaic characters are
far from sympathetic, despite the fact that Aldous redeems himself and
Aaron becomes Aldous' producer. Incidentally, Aaron and Daphne hook
back up and make it to Seattle. Sean Combs delivers one of the funniest
performances and Colm Meaney of "Con Air" isn't far behind him as
Aldous' father Jonathan Snow. Kristen Bell appears in a cameo.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this movie tonight as an advanced screening
at my school.

It is the funniest movie of the year so far and I think it will be a
sleeper hit like The Hangover was last year. I loved Russel Brand's
character in Forgetting Sarah Marshall, but I was bit hesitant to see
an entire movie based around the character. If you feel the same way as
I did, stop! This was an excellent spin off with a great cast. If you
love movies like Superbad and The Hangover, you will not be
disappointed with this. Although, don't go in expecting another
Forgetting Sarah Marshall, which is more of a romantic comedy. This is
just 108 minutes (approx) of pure fun and a lot of crude humor.

Russel Brand, Jonah Hill, and Diddy are flat out hilarious. I'll go far
as to say that Diddy's character Sergio is to this movie as Russell
Brand's Aldous Snow was to Forgetting Sarah Marshall. There are a lot
of hilarious lines throughout the movie and a couple of awesome cameos.

I haven't laughed as much as I did tonight since I first saw The
Hangover last year. If you love comedies, then don't miss this! I
highly recommend it.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The comedy films of writer/producer/director Judd Apatow have somewhat
dominated the last eight years or so. As well as being commercial hits,
they have been lauded by critics for their sweet approach to comedy,
blended with gross-out aspects and genuinely good scriptwriting. Apart
from his best works - The 40-Year Old Virgin, Superbad, Knocked Up -
his films can often be lazy, relying on quirky randomness to get
through. The overrated Anchorman, which has somehow become a massive
cult hit, was the biggest example of this, and although I could watch
Will Ferrell all day, the film just felt like it was desperately trying
to get through to the other side. Get Him To The Greek is another
example of this.

Music producer Aaron Green (Jonah Hill) convinces his somewhat angry
boss (Sean Combs) that an anniversary concert for failing rock star
Aldous Snow (Russell Brand) is the way forward. Convinced, Green is
sent to London to collect Snow and take him on a few promotional spots
before arriving back in America for his concert. Snow would rather have
endless parties, take lots of drugs, and sleep with lots of women -
which is okay with Green, only he has an angry boss on his ass and a
girlfriend (played by Mad Men's Elisabeth Moss) who he's not sure has
broken up with him or not.

This is really a film of two halves. The first being genuinely funny -
with Brand breathing likability into his somewhat loathsome character,
and the exchanges between Hill and Diddy being a particular highlight.
This is coming from a person that hates Russell Brand. I mean I really,
really hate him. But the charm that everyone else seems to see only
becomes apparent to me when on the screen. Here he reprises his role
from Forgetting Sarah Marshall, where I was surprised with his comic
timing. When the second half comes around, I began hating him again.

The film simply runs out of ideas, throwing in a troubled father-son
relationship between Brand and his Las Vegas-based father Jonathan Snow
(Colm Meaney) that is of no interest. It also throws up one of the
unfunniest scenes in the film, with Hill being smashed on a 'jeffrey'
(a mix up of a variety of drugs smoked like a joint) and stroking a
furry wall while Brand and Meaney fight. It resorts to scenes like this
because it has no more jokes to tell, and combined with Aldous Snow's
increasingly crap and unfunny array of songs, it all feels like it just
wants to end.

Sadly, a more interesting sub-plot that reveals Snow's serious drug
habit crops up then seemingly fades out without being properly
explored. It could have added another dimension to Snow's character,
and stopped him becoming a whiny and annoying protagonist. That said,
the first half is funny enough to make it worth a watch, and Sean Combs
near enough steals the entire film.

www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
This is Nicholas Stoller's first mainstream film in which he both wrote
and directed, exploring the high's and lows of Jason Segal's Forgetting
Sarah Marshall's character "Aldous Snow". 

Aldous Snow is the controversial, alcoholic, drug addict rock star
stereotype played by Russell Brand. He does it well and leaves us with
a strong and convincing performance, but then It's hard to criticise
his acting when he for the most part just plays himself, and to that
point he does it well as always. 

The story-line is basic but strong, and doesn't skimp on the laughs...
or the nauseating, leaving the theater in stitches and disgust several
times throughout. It takes you on a journey of the highs and lows of
life as a rock star, the publicly glorified side and the more somber,
touching on the loneliness and struggles with relapse. 

It flew by fast and felt squashed at the end, the resolution was a tad
jammed and left me slightly disappointed, but i'll be watching it
again. 

If you liked the hangover, you'll defiantly like this.
