
The first installment in this series was decent enough to spark my
interest in checking out the sequel. Unfortunately, Why Did I Get
Married Too was a sub-par attempt to reprise Perry's previous venture
in couples therapy. There were a few redeemable aspects of the movie,
namely, some of the characters have been further developed. The new
aspects of their relationship dynamics made it interesting to see how
their lives have changed. Also appreciated are the moments of bare
sincerity in the dialogue. There are a few scenes where a husband and
wife could be seen having a believable, vulnerable discussion about the
impact of individual choices on their relationship without the bravado
of over-the-top displays.

Sadly, any redeemable parts of this film were heavily flanked in
overwrought dramatic scenes in an effort to create meaningful turning
points, and mostly uncomfortable attempts at humor. It's as if Perry
thought that hearty laughter from the characters in the more comedic
scenes would somehow make the scene funnier; the mission was not
accomplished. Also, Perry decided to have the movie be more dependent
on Janet Jackson's character as the center pin of the plot, which is an
unfortunate shift because she simply doesn't have the skills to
deliver. While she is more highly emotive throughout this film, she
isn't believable. It just left you feeling uncomfortable watching it
happen. To make matters worst, the scene transitions felt abrupt, like
you were being yanked by the collar from one end of a room to another.

On a more pitiful note, there were several lines and scenes that were
way too close to those from the movies Boomerang, Soul Food, and
Unfaithful. It's one thing to have a trite storyline; it's a whole
other issue when scenes are taken from other movies and executed so
similarly to the original that the forerunner immediately comes to the
viewer's mind. This kind of poorly-done mimicry leaves you feeling
duped by and embarrassed for the person attempting it. The worst part
was the ending, which felt rushed and forced. Perry is certainly
invested in happy endings, but this was insulting to the characters and
the viewers.

Overall, the only reason I continued to watch the movie was not because
it was in any way worth it, but because I have a sometimes silly desire
to finish what I've started. I hope that Perry soon decides to employ
screenwriters to broaden the scope of what seems to be a one-man show
and production because movie scriptwriting requires a level of skill
that he has not yet polished.
<|_=00=_|>
Why Did I Get Married too? More like Why did I waste $[...] watching
this crap? The real title should be: How does this guy take ten pounds
of crap and stuff it into five pounds of movie? WTF was that ending?
Good God, this film meandered from the start. It was people sitting
around and talking. Then after some airport drama from Angela, going to
the Bahamas to TALK SOME MORE. It irks me that in all of Perry's movies
he TELLS instead of SHOWS. Hey, aren't people supposed to be DOING
things in a movie? Aren't films supposed to be about oh, ACTION? Isn't
ACTION supposed to define CHARACTER? That's what I learned from Syd
Field and Robert Mckee about screen writing, but Perry don't know about
that because he probably never bought any of these books to learn
something about the craft of writing for the screen as opposed to the
stage.

Man, the writing on this film was SLOPPY, sloppier than previous Perry
films. I'm still waiting for dude to learn how to tell a basic story,
let alone know how things work On screen. I'm still waiting for him to
learn how to use plot points and use stuff like CONTRAST, IRONY,
FORESHADOWING, and SYMBOLISM like Lorraine Hansberry or Spike Lee do in
their stories. I'm still waiting for his characters to have some DEPTH
and COMPLEXITY. Seriously, a six-year-old could write a better
screenplay than Perry, and it would make more sense than anything he
puts together in his ridiculous Ed Wood styled plots.

I mean, looking at the plot holes in this movie (That ending STILL
GIVES ME A HEADACHE: I Love how the guys hooked up with Mike, who shows
up out of nowhere. Shouldn't the timeshare have been settled in the
DIVORCE FROM THE LAST MOVIE? Oh and Jill Scott's new husband not being
able to find a job as a COP? COME ON! Civil service jobs are always
hiring, even in recessions. Big cities ALWAYS NEED POLICE OFFICERS to
replace retiring ones. The fact that dude had experience in LAW
ENFORCEMENT would have been a plus for him. Dude probably would have
been selected FASTER than anyone else in pools because of his
EXPERIENCE. Blue protects blue, and Blue helps out blue even when it's
black. That's the culture of law enforcement. At the least dude would
have gotten a Security work or bouncing at a bar. Sloppy writing from
Perry there; he should have researched the details. A better plot line
would have been about him adjusting to being part of the group. I mean,
he's the new guy. He doesn't know these people as closely as they've
known each other. Wouldn't they be averse to trusting him or getting to
know him better? Angela and Marcus- both these characters were so
One-dimensional. If it wasn't for their loud arguing and use as comic
relief they'd have no story at all. I love how they never resolve their
trust issues and will be back to bicker and act a fool in yet another
movie.

Gavin being made out to be a heel mid-film. The brother just wanted to
save his marriage and do right by his lady, but he's turned into a
monster by Tyler "Man-hating" Fairy. Hey Tyler, How about some BALANCE
to your stories? How about showing the BROTHERS as complex
three-dimensional people and not "good" or "bad"? You do know that
people have LAYERS and DEPTH to their personalities, and that people
have REASONS for the way they act or react.

I Love how Pat never dealt with her issues FOR A SECOND MOVIE. But TP
needs some drama for Dwayne to NOT deal with in the next installment.
Keeps the suckers (I mean fans) coming back to plunk down cash for
another installment. The Rock Cameo was just a diversion to deflect us
from underdevelopment of the storyline.

I Love how Perry's character and his wife never deal with the deeper
reasons for an emotional affair. This entire part of the movie was
extremely underdeveloped. Perry tells us his wife is glowing; everybody
tells us she's happier than she's ever been. Hey Tyler, Instead of
having people joking on the beach, how about SHOWING us some frames of
her getting things like text messages and pictures in e-mails? Again,
sloppy writing.

Seriously, All the characters came out of the movie just like they came
in. That's just bad writing all around. Even Ed Wood had some type of
change happen to Glen in Glen or Glenda.

Hey Tyler: stick to stage plays and leave movies to better Black
directors that are way more skilled than you at telling stories!

PS: The proper term for Tyler Perry's movies is minstrel shows not
Blaxploitation. Even the most silliest of Blaxploitation movies had
more integrity than any of the chittlin circuit garbage that Perry
makes yearly.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, what a movie. I made an account just so I can review this one
particular movie. When it started out, I was bored out of my mind, I
didn't care about the characters and then something epic would happen
and I would be like "oh yes! Finally, something good!" and then it
would be shot down by predictable acting and I was like "...really?"
However, once Janet had her pleasant outburst with her soon to be ex, I
was happily engaged in the movie although still edging on falling to
sleep and being half awake. I think her performance was one of the
better aspects of the movie due to the fact that I could understand why
her character did what she did. It bothers me though that you never
understand WHY they were getting a divorce. Then at the end, it was
forced in that she would go harass her husband, that was the only part
where I was like "lol...wut?" Then you have the other sub plots such as
the wife cheating on her husband, it was OK but it bothered me that
when he wasn't with his wife, he showed no signs of being bothered at
all. Life was swell. And then with the wife you didn't see her change
toward her husband at all, they just assumed you were supposed to just
take it as is and not ask questions. Then you had Mark(I think that was
his name) who shows up randomly and acts all hunky dorey and I miss my
ex wife which, once again, you don't really get a full grasp of the
situation you're kinda just thrown in.

I will admit Marcus and his wife were funny and they made me feel happy
although they were stereotyped, it was refreshing because I know people
like that and its just hilarious.

Now...my biggest complaint that leaves this review to be a 4...the
ending. I didn't care that Terry died, I figured that out but they
could have tried to resolve it better and then at the hospital, Janet
screams "Fix it!" and everyone is like "ok! *smooch* fixed!" it could
have been so much better! Don't bring me up to the top of the mountain
just to push me down with that sorry excuse of a resolution.
Then...what really set me off was the cameo of The Rock or Dwayne
Johnson if that's correct. Why is he in it? That was a distraction from
the entire movie in general! He didn't need to have the epic camera
shots, I walked out but then stopped because it was the end of the
movie anyway.

Speaking of camera shots, the face shots when they were talking was a
horrible way to portray the movie. It annoyed me because I kept
thinking this scene could be a lot better if they just zoomed out and
let us watch the characters speak. This may sound odd but I felt like I
was watching a movie, not someone's life. It kept reminding me that it
was a movie and if the Tyler Perry was going for a POV shot, fail.

This movie starts off boring, gets good, and then becomes
just...difficult. So much potential...what happened? That's all I gotta
say.
<|_=00=_|>
In trying to recall a good or personal fave moment in this movie, I
come up with zilch. I don't know any people of color that act like
this. Sure, I hear about it in stand-up comedy but this is not stand-up
comedy. What this ends up being is a farce. Right on down to Janet's
closing number which recounts events from the film. Cicely Tyson is a
legend IMHO and seeing her "ACT-ive" is perhaps worth the cost of the
ticket. I really did enjoy the first installment but I now believe that
if I go back and view it again, it will unravel right before my eyes...
just as this did. This movie was just embarrassing. Let's hope a 3rd
installment never surfaces. And Dwayne Johnson's (The Rock... or
whoever) cameo is not enough to pull me in again. Maybe a cameo from
Madea would have saved this film's ending. AUDIENCE HEARS MADEA: Oh
h_ll no, I can't use any of this... cut, CUT! CAMERA PANS OUT TO REVEAL
MADEA IN DIRECTOR'S SEAT. SHE THEN GETS UP AND COMICALLY THROWS HER
WEIGHT(2) AROUND FOR A BIT BEFORE HER FINAL WORDS: Let's take it from
the top. FADE TO BLACK. Movie saved.
<|_=00=_|>
The Mrs (her choice of movies) & I walked out after 20 minutes or so &
was allowed into another movie. I am not an actor but my gosh that was
some really shallow acting. The setting was nice but very little
action, elementary dialogue was rampant & too many close up's of actors
faces. I thought the actors had recently memorized their lines &
repeated them without any emotion or passion. The movies plot was weak
& the photography and cameras set ups were below par. My suggestion #1,
do not waste your money.Suggestion #2, Tyler Perry is living off the
positive movies of the past & should get back to producing a more
thoughtful & deeper movie content.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I'd like to point out that I am extremely open minded when it
comes to films, and I've been trying so hard to give Tyler Perry and
his films a chance but this was just plain AWFUL!!!!! 

From the moment the movie starts until the very end ... there are
scenes that were obviously supposed to be funny but no one in the
theater laughed and all the couples are just awkward or obnoxious and
it's soooo ridiculous!!!!! All throughout the movie I just kept asking
myself.. WHY?!?!?

Why would Angela be o.k with humiliating her husband every chance she
gets? And the whole idea of causing so much trouble over having your
husband's cell phone number password is just lame!!!!!! Why would
Sheila and her husband even go on vacation knowing that they have such
horrible money issues? Why would Patricia announce to everyone (even a
couple they just met) that her and her husband are getting a divorce?
And why did it take the writers so long to mention Dianne being unhappy
in her marriage?? I mean it was obvious from the very beginning that
she was hiding something... why drag it out???

Anyway I give the writers a little credit for trying to blend a good
mix of Drama and Comedy but some things were just over kill..
especially that whole stunt with the gay guy coming out of the cake..
What the heck were they thinking?!? After finding out that Mike had
cancer,and after seeing Gavin die after getting in a horrible car
accident.. All I could do is *gasp* and not in a good way!!! The Icing
on the cake for me was when they tried so hard to get people excited by
introducing Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson as Patricia's new love
interest... Wow as if I needed another reason to hate this film
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I saw this on Saturday night for our date night. What a
waste of 20 bucks!!!! I was about to write a review when I read the
review from TamPam which summed up how we felt. I'm re-posting the
TamPam review again. Here it is: 

The original "Married" was not Oscar material, but it was at least a
solid 5 or 6 on a 10-point scale. It had some freshness and some
unpredictability to it that at least made for some fun entertainment.

The sequel is none of these things!!!!!!!!!! Quite possibly one of the
worst movies I've ever seen. Clichéd to the hilt. Weak, repetitive,
IQ-lowering humor bordering on sloppy slapstick. From the slow
beginning to the disappointing end, this movie is starved. The plot is
begging for more development, the actors are aching for better
utilization of their characters, and the script is pleading to be burnt
to ashes.

Like Perry's "I Can Do Bad," this movie seems rushed as if very little
thought was put into making it. I have no idea how the mess I saw on
that screen made it pass the editing booth. There's just no
way...unless someone was trying to beat some kind of deadline and
concluded that since this movie is guaranteed to win the box office,
"who cares about quality? We make it and 'they' will come. Release it."
And release this stink bomb of a film they did. What a waste!!!
<|_=00=_|>
1. An appearance of The Rock aka Dwayne Johnson at the end 2. When
Angela (Tasha Smith) finally shut her trap 3. When the movie ended. I
was put out of my misery.

This movie sucked in every possible way. It was one of Tyler Perry's
worse movies ever produced, written and directed, right behind Meet The
Browns. The character Angela was a total embarrassment to all black
people, and her situation was entirely unrealistic. In real life, her
husband Marcus would have either fled the coop or engaged in domestic
violence, knocking Angela's teeth out. Throughout the entire movie, her
mouth and tongue yapped so much that I ended up having a migraine, but
I was determined to finish watching the movie so I could see Janet
Jackson's performance, especially since she's been receiving so many
rave reviews. She did come out of her normal comfort zone and let
loose, but was it Oscar worthy? Well, if you compare her performance to
others who have recently won an Oscar then "yeah, I guess she should
have one too... Pass it around!" 

There was no chemistry with any of the couples, except for Sheila and
Troy. Tyler Perry looks so uncomfortable in all of his intimate scenes,
as well as the one who plays his wife, she looks as though she detest
touching him. Mike's appearance was pointless. No one accomplished
anything in this movie. I presume Gavin's death and Patricia's
statement of "Love one another" was the ultimate message in this
movie... Work out your problems and love, because tomorrow is not
promised. Despite the moral message, the movie sucked. Bad acting, poor
chemistry, weak plot, poor direction, stereotypical buffoonery = 2
thumbs down.
<|_=00=_|>
While I do enjoy the good majority of Tyler Perry's work, and
absolutely loved the first 'Why did I get Married?' ; I find myself a
bit annoyed with the storyline of the sequel.

The flaws I see with this movie are what the majority of people have
said; the ending was horrible and there are a lot of loose ends.

The story of Mike going through chemo could have been closed properly.
Though not a big part in this movie, it still drew me in enough to want
to know what happened with his character.

Also Gavin dying from whatever injuries he sustained from the car
accident was very abrupt. This might have seemed like a clever way to
put in a message about how life suddenly takes a drastic turn, but this
left a bad taste in my mouth.

As for the other couples... I did wonder where their stories ended. One
kiss and everything is all better? No, no no! This is not how things
work. They should have expanded more on these stories as well as the
main plot.

There are other issues with this movie I'd address but I'll just leave
it to the viewer to find them.

All in all I give this movie a 3/10 stars. It lacks character
development. It lacks an ending that is satisfying. A poor sequel to a
movie that was actually good.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts out okay, i mean its typical Tyler Perry so its
somewhat corny and over written but it was entertaining. It made me
laugh it gave me some interesting insights into different
relationships. I think all the actors and actresses were doing the best
they could with the script they were given. BUT the end of this movie
was UNREAL! Are you serious? Patricia's character is sooooooo selfish
the only thing she gets passionate about is keeping her money? SHE
turns their entire divorce after 14 years﻿ into a war zone over "her"
money? if that was a man in that role, we would have all been calling
him a jerk for holding out money on his wife! He would have been the
villain, but Tyler perry somehow writes Janet's character to be the in
the right??? no matter how foul and selfish her actions. Lets keep in
mind, that her husband was depicted as a faithful, supportive, honest
loving husband throughout their whole tragic marriage. As if that
wasn't bad enough this evil woman crosses the line again, she goes to
his job and tries to humiliate him as much as possible, shes screaming
at him calling him a bitch and hitting him in front of his employees, (
again if a man had been doing this we would have been ready to burn
him) and as a DIRECT RESULT she gets this good man killed in a car
accident!!!! and then I'm supposed to be happy for her at the end like
a fairy tale cuz she meets a new man right away?? what?? so she gets
him killed and gets to keep all their money and now she gets Duane
Johnson? RIDICULOUS! stupid stupid script!! looked like the end of a
horror movie where the serial killer gets another victim. 

It is WRONG for Tyler Perry to give the impression that women have no
boundaries, Even when Tasha Smith's character went to her man's job
that was disgusting and wrong! but they don't even address it for a
second as wrong or inappropriate. He gives women this green light to be
irrational and insane, well thats not a message i want to send to my
daughters. I am a strong black woman and i never need to make a scene
to make a point, I never need to humiliate a man to make a point, Tyler
Perry practically encourages that. i cant believe Tyler Perry or anyone
thought this was a strong movie. Im so angry that i watched it all the
way to that stupid ending.
