
The creative team behind this movie have taken the Back to the Future
theme and have obviously had a lot of fun making this Bollywood version
- expect plenty of 70's throwbacks with quirky costumes, hairstyles and
moustaches, wacky comedy ably performed by the seasoned cast, and of
course this being Bollywood a decent soundtrack - there some good
songs.

I cannot see why this has been slated as a 'flop' - it brims with so
much fun, laughter, and wackiness of time travel! It just shows you
have to make up your mind and not always follow the crowd, especially
when they turn a dud of a movie like 'I hate luv stories' into a hit.

I recommend this to anyone, so go check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
At first once i saw the movie's trailer I thought it was a great movie
but soon my illusion faded away when i saw the whole thing. Cast of the
movie is great. We have Aishwarya Rai and Akshay Kumar as a parents of
Bunty played by Aditya Roy Kapoor. He also did a nice job but the story
seems very Shallow. All those who have seen 'Back to the Future' I
strictly advise them not to watch it because comparing to Robert
Zemeckis Epic master piece it is very boring. The story goes like
this....There is boy(Aditya)who don't want to marry because he thinks
that he will end up as his parents. His girl friend's(Sudeepa Singh)
grand father (Randhir Kapoor) is a scientist who have invented a time
machine. Now Bunty goes to the past to mend the life of his parents and
got succeeded. In this ROM-com we can easily sense a lot of
over-acting. So over all my rating of the movie is 2/5.
<|_=00=_|>
Vipul Shah's 'Action Replayy' is an entertaining film, that worked for
Me. I still wonder why were critics so harsh to this flick, and why did
the audience reject it outright? Surely, an under-rated escapist fare!

'Action Replayy' is escapist cinema. The main character travels back in
Time through a Time Machine, to sought things out. And even after he's
done the impossible, there are a couple of sequences that make no
sense.

But, non-sense fares do wonders in Cinema. Look at 'Avatar' or the
hugely over-rated 'Transformers', they are absolute fiction, but they
worked, and the topic ends there. 'Action Replayy' entertains,
especially in the second hour, which is superb. The first hour is
flawed, but surely not unbearable.

Vipul Shah's direction is good. The Writing is flawed in the initial
portions, but picks-up majorly in the latter hour. Cinematography is
fine. The art direction deserves a mention as well, as it truly brings
back the era of the 70's.

Performance-Wise: Akshay Kumar is Fantastic. As a geek, the superstar
delivers a performance that easily ranks amongst his finest works.
Aishwarya Rai is very likable. Aditya Roy Kapoor is excellent. Neha
Dhupia gets limited scope. Ditto for Sudeepa Singh. Om Puri, Rajpal
Yadav and Kirron Kher are decent. Rannvijay Singh is least impressive.

On the whole, 'Action Replayy' surely deserves a watch, as it offers
some genuinely entertaining moments, that remain with you. Thumbs Up!
<|_=00=_|>
I feel that I'm being quite generous on my rating of 7/10, as I was
expecting a lot from Action Replayy and it did not live up to those
standards. With Akshay Kumar playing a lead role, I was expecting
gut-bursting laughs, and thankfully, that has fulfilled it's promise. I
found the humour to be the saving grace in the movie, and there are
laughs. I would not call them gut-bursting laughs, but there were many
comical moments that evolved into a hearty laugh from me. Akshay did
not disappoint. 

The plot is basically non-existent, and is loosely adapted from Robert
Zemeckis's genius "Back to the Future". Sadly Action Replayy is not in
the same realm in the slightest. It's sad that BTTF has to be linked to
this as it is a poor adaptation of a classic movie. The lack of plot is
the key factor which lets the film down. In addition, the film is quite
jumpy and many important details are left unexplained, confusing the
viewer. 

The casting is well done, although I never would have placed Neha
Dhupia in her role of Mona. I feel she has the talent capacity of a
grape, and was not wrong as she was just a pretty face in the movie.
Akshay was lovable and funny, and the physical transformation we see
him in is hilarious. He makes a fantastic geek. Aishwarya as his love
interest was an interesting choice - they have not been seen together
on screen for a while and I was curious to see the outcome. She looks
stunning on screen, the 1970s style and attire suits her brilliantly
and she looks very much like a Hindi Film heroine from that era. Her
performance was satisfactory, I enjoyed her in the role of Mala, and
there's no denying she performed well, if we excuse some overacting.
Rannvijay Singh as Kundanlal was irksome and brings out a lot of the
comedy in the movie - he was a great villain. Rajpal Yadav as always,
made me laugh. However the most striking piece of the puzzle was the
newcomer Aditya Roy Kapoor as the protagonist Bunty. He's very
appealing and for one of his first few films I'd say he did a good job.
There were points where I found him quite irritating but it was more
the fault of the poor screenplay and lack of storyline. Bunty screaming
"Woo Hoo!" at seeing his parents fall in love, made me cringe
immensely, but I hold this more to the script and not him. Kirron Kher
and Om Puri are wasted, but as usual play their parts par excellence as
expected. And there is even another fresh face playing Bunty's love
interest Tanya.

I loathed the "time machine" scenes because they were done with about
the effort of a five-year old. We were told the bare minimum about the
time machine and the CGI-travelling-through-time sequence is terrible.
I also found the music less catchy than what I expected, and some of
the lyrics are terrible - "all my ladies and my mans, and my mans and
all my ladies!" - there were very few good quality musical bits. 

Action Replayy is a flawed film, with it's plot (or lack of) being the
main letdown, but I still wouldn't say this film is not worth watching.
As much as I didn't want to, I did find the humour amusing and there
are definitely laughable moments in the film. Action Replayy is more
lighthearted than anything, and should be seen with an open mind and
low expectations. This is good for a lazy evening in, but don't watch
this expecting a great cinematic experience, because it's not that sort
of film. If you're looking for an easy laugh, however, this could be
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was hoping for a lot more when i first saw the trailers and promos.
But i was wrong. The movie was alright, nothing great.

Akshay Kumar was very good as always, he is always 1st class in a comic
role.

Aishwarya Rai B was looking amazing in all the 60s costumes and hair,
acting was very good from her too.

But the film overall was not worth it, i mean it is worth watching once
and they should be for the great performance from both Akshay Kumar and
Aishwarya Rai B.

Music was decent, nothing great.

My review on Action Replayy: 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The phrase "Dimaag side mein rakh ke dekh" fits perfectly here. I
started watching this movie without little to no expectations. Probably
just for the song "Zor ka Zhatka"... but as the movie started
unfolding... it started adding fun, comedy, nice one liners and super
acting by everybody...

whoever watched movie with great expectations thinking it will be a
next big sci-fi hit, they were either sleepy heads or crazy in mind...
guys some movies are made for light heart comedies.. if you are so much
looking for a sci-fi go check out all the big Hollywood movies..

bloody all angrez...
<|_=00=_|>
Bollywood directors are experimenting in a rather harmless manner
nowadays, and Action Replayy is the result of such an attempt from
Vipul Shah, who entertained us with Namastey London and disappointed us
with London Dreams in the previous years. However, Action Replayy is
much much better than the boring London Dreams. In fact, it is
entertaining and good. Moreover, the movie comes up with a pleasant
surprise, Aditya Roy Kapoor. He is that type of typical bollywood guy,
with his cute and innocent looks, and he is so lucky to get such a long
role in such a big film. He performs equally, or even more than Akshay
Kumar, in every sequence. In fact, he is the real hero of the movie.
So, the movie is about a son travelling back to 1970s to set his
parents' marriage alright. A lot of questions of plagiarism come along
with the subject of travelling through time, but I never felt any
resemblance with any other movie, this is original work, IMO. There are
many flaws in the movie, but still it is enjoyable, with an interesting
screenplay and good performances. Also, the songs are good, even though
few of them are not properly placed. There are lot of entertaining
moments throughout the film, some of them are very good. The
performances are good, and Aditya Roy Kapoor is on the top amongst all.
Akshay Kumar and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan are good, so as Rannvijay
Singh, Om Puri, Kirron Kher, Neha Dhupia, Rajpal Yadav etc. One big
letdown is the ending of the movie, the credits begin to roll up so
quickly, there should have been a proper ending. May be editor's
mistake!!

On the whole, it is a good movie, definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
No way should this movie be rated under 6 or 7 out of 10 (it is 4 now).
I think people don't get the kind of movie this is. It is meant to be
light hearted comedy, don't try to find logical loopholes. For me this
was the best comedy of 2010, better than Goolmal or No Problem or any
other movie from earlier this year. This is a must see for all Akshay
fans. I would rate it his second best comedy after Garam Masala. He is
the #1 actor in Bollywood today, no one has his shown as much
versatility as him in the types of roles has has portrayed over the
years. Salman is close second because he still struggles with more
serious, emotional type of roles. SRK or Hritik can't even come close.
Don't let the low rating fool you, if you have enjoyed Akshay comedies
in the past, this one will be a blast.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie.Although the concept of the time machine may not
have been digested by many viewers i thought it was unique.
Akshaykumar's acting was par excellence with hiilarious look and funny
style of walking. The songs were good especially zor ka jhatka and
bekhabar. However, the editing could have been better. Unfortunately, i
have noticed that movies like chandni chowk and action repplay had bad
editing. Akshay kumaris truly a great actor who is not only versatile
but also can handle comedy scenes with ease. It is not easy for an
actor to undermine his looks for amovie and he has done well. I enjoyed
the movie and i watched it twice. It is a real treat for all Akki fans
out there.
<|_=00=_|>
Akshay's career had blossomed in 2005 when his comedy got noticed but
post 2008 his career started going downhill with flops and flops and
his comedy getting repetitive, Housefull was a hit but Khatta Meetha
was average while Action Replay bombed. The film had a novel concept of
time travel which is new for bollywood or less seen in Hindi films
hence the film was hyped but sadly it falters In fact the writers take
the audience for granted, One fails to understand how the time travel
will change present things? Also several scenes are too childish and
bizarre and get irritating

Direction by Vipul Shah is bad,however his imagination should be
applauded Music is okay, Jor Ka Jhatka was famous those days but the
songs do interrupt, Camera-work is fab, the 70s era is well recreated

Akshay Kumar tries to look the part and does justice, he is superb as
the bucket teeth simpleton and also later as the stylish guy Aishwarya
Rai tends to overdo it Aditya Roy Kapoor who debutted in London Dreams
got an imp role and does a good job Om Puri,Kirron Kher are given half
baked roles, Rajpal Yadav is wasted, Ranvijay Singh fails, Neha Dhupia
is average, Randhir Kapoor is okay
