
I've been writing reviews for IMDb for ten years, and I think something
fishy is going on here. STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON is getting very, very
high reviews from the vast majority of IMDb reviewers -- but the nine
and ten- star reviews are all getting pelted with "negative" marks,
earning scores of "1 out of 15" likes.

So what's the problem? The problem is that this movie wasn't supposed
to be a hit. The mass audience wasn't supposed to respond to the story
of young black men facing oppression and coming out on top. The
American people were not supposed to see the real truth about how their
police treat minorities every day. 

Quick, let's bury the good reviews! Let's spawn a phony backlash! Let's
discredit Dr. Dre and Ice Cube on the basis of things they did twenty
years ago. Oh, and let's all get sentimental about Eazy E because he's
dead, and young black men are okay once they're dead. The dead ones are
no longer scary and threatening. 

The problem with this movie is that the people who made it actually
dared to portray young, angry black men as heroic, not as criminals or
predators. It's okay to glamorize white criminals, because Hollywood
was built on that. From PUBLIC ENEMY to THE GODFATHER, white audiences
have always loved to sentimentalize their own criminals. But you can't
do that with black men who rap about crime, even when they aren't
actually criminals themselves. When Cagney postures like a thug in some
ancient piece of crap that's cool. But when black men do it today
that's dangerous and irresponsible!

There are very powerful elements in this country that are terribly
frightened by this movie. They're frightened because this movie gets
white audiences to see young black men as something other than
dangerous criminals. The scenes of NWA being roughed up by police are a
terrible threat to the powerful elements in our society, who stay in
power only by keeping white people scared of black men. They can't
tolerate the idea of black male victims, so they instantly start a
media backlash portraying the victims as criminals.

I say this is a good movie, a powerful, exciting film that presents a
side of American life that is almost never seen on the screen. I know
I'm not going to get many likes for this review, but what the hell. 

I've got enough already.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was poor, I was expecting a real rag to riches story and the
films to portray the troubles of easy e, as he made nma.Instead it hown
him to be a money grabber, when in fact that was dr dre and ice cube.

The movie is a typical " lets make black people cool" movie, gloryfying
mindless violence, over the top swearing, and thuggery, its not cool,
its not big and its not clever.

It really is a poor portrayal of what could have been a half decent
movie, It if would have employed decent actors, stuck to a real life
story and made the characters more likable then it might have made it
but it was just another " lets glorify black men as being cool thugs"
movie. Boring, over rated, tedious, and had every stereotype under the
sun to go with it. who ever rates this movie above a 1 is either a
mindless teenager or someone who knows absolutely nothing about movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot stress how disappointed I was with this movie. I expected a
powerful, raw and real view into the true story of the revolution of
hip hop/rap. I was quite young when all of this actually occurred but
(growing up in the 90's) music was evolving in new and significant ways
that was truly exciting. As far as the stories behind the music we were
left with what little we heard on MTV news, read in the few gossip
columns of magazines and word of mouth. That's why I was eager to see
this movie. With social media now we know every step everyone takes-and
they are aware of that-so I was looking forward to seeing a depiction
of a time before that. A behind the scenes look at what really went on
when nobody was looking-because then compared to now-nobody was.

...Instead what I got was 2 1/2 hours of horrible acting! I've seen
more character in infomercials than in this movie. Seriously I'm more
emotionally invested in if Bob can get that burnt cheese off his
non-stick pan than I was of the deaths in this movie. The actors seemed
as if every single blink was scripted, nothing seemed natural or real
at all-which to me is important when you're portraying something that
actually happened! 

If the intentions of this movie were to take a real life, hard,
emotional yet exciting revolutionary story and make it seem fake and
drab it gets 10 stars. But it wasn't, therefore I give it 1. It
could've and should've been something great.
<|_=00=_|>
Straight Outta Compton tells the bad way of life about NWA corrupt
artists who seem so happy to be bad,aggressive,violent and depraved.
They enjoy their perversion and rejoice in being angry and ruthless
thugs. What A Great Shame!. The music in Straight Outta Compton Is
Completely Disgusting Just Like This Nonsense Movie.

I know that rebels should not resort to any violence if they want to
get their rights. Those dirty rascals always swear and enjoy being evil
and corrupt and they suck so bad indeed.

Straight Outta Compton Is Completely Boring From The Start Till The
End.

Do Not Believe The Fake High Votes!.

Do Not Believe The Hype!.

Honestly this is The Worst Movie Ever Seen.
<|_=00=_|>
This was appalling to watch real hip hop and rap was people like Kool
Moe Dee or the young Busy Bee movie's like this make our world a harder
place It felt like this was sent out out to all the teens and children
it's wrong appalling. This isn't how music should be this genre is so
poisoned and tainted it shouldn't of been funded it was unbearable.
Would it of been so hard to have some positive people in it positive
lyrics. Not that their life stories aren't bad or respected it's just
the movie was all about rewarding ignorance I feel like anyone that
watched this has been tainted it's not the cast, I respect some of the
cast it just put the wrong message out to people especially the ones
underage that will watch this. The swearing, drugs and violence were a
huge impact on this and now more teens will do it monkey see monkey do.
If it was old school if it was like respected hip hop artist in the
80's it would of been way better and I would of loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a big fan of N.W.A and their music does not interest me. I
have to admit that after seeing this movie I was overwhelmed with
dismay. It is true that the media and the movie critics have been
slanting the news to trap us into seeing this film.

Alas what a boring film!.

From the beginning to end,this documentary movie about five black
rappers failed to impress me.

Off course this movie deserves a fair NC17 rating,but the explicit sex
and the bad language did not offend me since I am an adult.

What I strongly hated about this movie is that it indirectly promotes
racism and hatred against black people for in this movie are
represented as ruthless and immoral rebels .

Sorry to tell you that (Straight Outta Compton) is a movie you should
avoid if you do not want to waste your time and lose your money.
<|_=00=_|>
Gosh what the hell is going on with this movie?.

It ain't worth watching!.

"Straight Outta Compton" portrays the life of ruthless beggars who
abruptly rose to fame as a result of their infamous vulgarity.

Everything is boring and disgusting about this bad and violent movie.

The music really sucked and the acting was artificial.

The few enjoyable things that lustful adults could temporarily enjoy
are the naked prostitutes and the blow job scene.

I think this ain't a musical biography but rather a story of evil men
who enjoy pornography and who fantasize about committing every kind of
sin.

REALLY IT IS A GREAT SHAME!.
<|_=00=_|>
Straight Outta Compton is the worst movie of 2015.

Don't believe the Hype!.

It is enormously over-rated and too boring.

A commercial movie with sex,nude women and fellatio.

Worst Drama ever seen and the worst acting ever!.

5 Black scum men who sees no shame in practicing shameless sex
,drinking too much alcohol,using drug,swearing too much and enjoying
seeing graphic nudity of shameless sluts.

This movie was previously rated X (for the blow job scene).But even the
rating is unfair.It deserves NC-17 for all the disgusting things in it.

For all of these above reasons,Straight Outta Compton is truly the
worst and most over-rated movie of 2015.
<|_=00=_|>
In F. Gary Gray's docudrama biopic, Straight Outta Compton, it tell's
the story how six men from Compton, California (Eazy-E (singer), Ice
Cube (songwriter, singer), Dr.Dre (DJ), DJ Yella (backup vocals), MC
Ren (backup vocals), and The D.O.C. (backup vocals)) rose to fame their
debuting album Straight Outta Compton by their band N.W.A. previously
they all worked together on the hit- single Boyz In Da Hood by Eazy- E.
After Boyz In Da Hood blow up, Eazy-E met with music manager Jerry
Heller who was played by Paul Giamatti who I think did a great job
playing the manager. Ice Cube's son O'Shea Jackson Jr. play's his
father in the movie and does a good job at it acting like his old man
and capturing his charm, eventually the manager Jerry doesn't pay Ice
Cube the money he deserves and the legal representation to sign a
record contract. So Cube leaves the group and start's his own music
label and becomes a film actor starring in Boyz N the Hood and also
becoming a film writer for the 1995 movie Friday and the film show's
both these event's. Before Ice Cube splits the group their
controversial song f the police show's the crew getting arrested and
fighting for their freedom of speech. Leading to other rapper's basing
their material to what N.W.A. did. Dr. Dre would leave and would
discover Snoop Dogg, Tupac, 50 Cent, and Eminem which I personally
loved how they introduced them. N.W.A. would now just be Eazy-E, MC
Ren, and DJ Yella, Eazy-E now finally realizes that Jerry was screwing
him over from the beginning and Dre and Cube were trying to tell him
but he didn't listen, he tries to reunite N.W.A. without Jerry being
involved which I think is pretty cool, he reconciles with Ice Cube and
Dr. Dre but find's out he has HIV/AIDS dying shortly after he's
diagnosed causing the group to grieve, but people will always remember
him, finally Dr. Dre leaves Death Row Records because Suge Knight
wasn't fair to him and starts his own label Aftermath which becomes
very successful. The music for the movie was perfect, what wasn't was
they never explained what happened to Jerry Heller after he was fired
by Eazy-E. N.W.A. led a movement of modern day rap to let it be what it
is, N.W.A. wasn't afraid to have changes in music which is what's great
about the group.
<|_=00=_|>
So I know people within the music industry that have been in it for
over 20 years. I usually have access to V.I.P./backstage....

So that being said, when this came out quite a few of my musician
buddies mentioned they had been around N.W.A. in those days or knew
people close to them. Their responses though were not so kind. They
mentioned quite a bit of this movie is made up/Hollywood fluff just to
sell it. So don't take this as an actually history piece, because it is
NOT. Pretty much all of them were disgusted by it. Think the real story
will ever happen? Most likely not.

Sure, I grew up to their music, but I just couldn't bring myself to
finish watching this.
