
I attended the London movie premiere for this on Tuesday and there is
always one BIG PROBLEM about premieres... if the movie is bad you can't
leave. I realised very early on in this movie that I had a BIG PROBLEM.

Getting through this movie and hearing other people chuckle politely at
the jokes just so as not to offend SJP and HG made the atmosphere
unbearable. The storyline was terrible, the dialogue was predictable
and the characters were as if plucked straight from other movies: HG
was Charles from 'Four Weddings', Sam Elliot was Virgil from
'Tombstone', Mary Steenburgen was Clara from 'Back to the Future 3' and
SJP was Paula from 'Failure to Launch'... and you spend the entire
movie thinking about how much better all of those other movies were!

When this ended, I thought to myself "Why has this been made at all?"
and then it dawned upon me... MARKETING PLOY. SJP has SATC 2 coming out
next year and needs to get back into the public eye just before that
and HG needs to help his Ex (Liz) raise awareness for her charity. This
movie will get them some column inches in magazine and some exposure on
the Internet. It makes perfect sense now...

PRO: I smiled at the last joke in the movie. CON: I only smiled at the
last joke in the movie
<|_=00=_|>
Ever sat through a movie wondering to yourself "how does crap like this
get made?" Well, Did You Hear About the Morgans makes those movies look
good. The first word that came to mind when my daughter asked what I
thought was "excruciating". I can NOT believe the same person wrote Two
Weeks Notice and Music and Lyrics. Did he lose a bet?

And Hugh Grant...what to say? He acted like a man being held at ransom,
trying to convey a desperate plea for help. I expected to see a "Help
me" sign taped to his back every time he turned around. His performance
was forced and there was literally no chemistry whatsoever between him
and Sarah Jessica Parker. The plot, the dialog, the story
arc...literally everything in the movie was a poorly executed cliché.
The witness protection plan? Seriously? This is 2009 and not 1986,
right?

As a die hard Hugh Grant fan, my only hope is he made this movie to
please some big studio boss in order to get his own screenplay (about
his war hero grandfather) made. If so, it had better be good...it's
going to take nothing short of another Saving Private Ryan to save
Grant's reputation after this stinker of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read so many critics trashing down this movie that I felt the need
to come on its defense. I've seen it just a hour ago and for me it gave
me what I was hoping to receive: after a tiring working day, traveling
around in the rain, and not having time to lunch, I've stopped for
dinner and between the Morgans and Mandela (Invictus) I went and bought
a ticket for that romantic comedy. I don't understand how people can be
so demanding about the genre. Everybody knows how a romantic comedy
ends. It's not the story that matters and although I find Grant and
Parker an unlikely match, they made me laugh and that was what I
needed. "It's so quiet here I can hear my cells dividing". For that and
a little bit more it was a pleasant experience, not so happy as
Disneyland, though.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I just got back from seeing "Did You Hear About The
Morgans" and it was a cute movie but very predictable. Hugh Grant's
acting is almost painful to watch. I had read somewhere that he
actually doesn't like acting and it appears that way in this film.
Sarah Jessica Parker acts the same way she does in Sex And The City.
She isn't much for characterization. Sam Elliott and Mary Steenberger
have smaller parts but they are the best thing about this movie. Both
are superb actors and don't "overact" or "overdramatize" their parts.
Overall it is a cute date movie and it's worth seeing but I can't give
it more than four stars. It is just another cookie cutter type romantic
comedy that Hollywood is cranking out these days. You can actually
predict some of the dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're expecting an original groundbreaking comedy, you're probably
going to be disappointed by this film. But if you're looking for a bit
of sweet entertainment, it will fit the bill. 

The acting was pretty decent, and there were quite a few chuckles
throughout the movie. If you're looking for much more than that, you'll
probably want to pick another movie. The biggest disadvantage was that
the plot was absolutely predictable. 

However, I was impressed with the way it showed a couple trying to work
through a very serious problem in their relationship. The romance part
was fairly believable.

It's not a movie that I'm dying to see again or rushing to go out and
buy, but it was an enjoyable way to spend some time. I went to see it
with family, and we all more or less enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be fooled by most of the reviews here. I can't explain them, but
it may have something to do with the fact that some of the jokes in the
movie are not immediately perceptible to those who haven't worked/lived
in a big city.

I just watched this last night and had a blast! It's not for the
quality of the movie itself. In fact, some of the acting is quite bad.
But one of the points in going to the movies is to have fun. Movies
entertain you. And this one did an exceptional job in that matter! 

As a comedy, it is one of the best I've seen in the last couple of
years or so. It's a good laugh that is worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a separated couple who has to move to a small town
in the countryside, after witnessing a murder.

I thought "Did You Hear About the Morgans" was funny! Yes the plot
follows the same formula as of all romantic comedies, but it is
enjoyable and fun. There are some laugh out loud moments, such as the
angiography joke or the fourteen political followers joke. I think does
present the life of a small town in an entertaining and humorous way. I
particularly like Mary Steenburgen's character, when she talked about
reconciling with her husband because of lots of cows, she looked so
genuinely reminiscent the amazing feeling. This backdrop of a small
town provides the catalyst for a change in the Morgans' relationship
status. Sometimes, a change is what is needed for things to go well!
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer editor of the movie is amazing, he fouled me into thinking
this is an unoriginal but funny holiday comedy. Actually, the movie is
not funny at all, I've never smiled once during the whole séance.The
pace was too slow, it can be easily cut off 30 minutes. All the gigs
are old and not funny. The two about bear and horse are OK, but even
those two are not funny in the movie with bad begin or end lines. The
movie is so bad that during the last hour I actually wanted the killer
won and kill both of the Morgans. PS Don't get me wrong, I was not
dragged into theater by a woman, I'm a shallow movie goer and always a
fun of Hugh Grant comedies(I felt Two Weeks Notice was very funny), I
volunteered to go alone.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so it's not some great wonder-movie which will get a zillion Oscars
- but hey, it was a pleasant movie to watch. 

I liked that it was gentle and friendly, and suitable to enjoy with my
10 year old son. There are so many movies today where I feel like that
I've spent some time with very rough individuals with low standards -
and I should look for a better class of friend. So it was a great
relief to simply have an enjoyable afternoon

I loved the warmth & down-to-earth-ness of the locals, and the city
slickers seemed to appreciate that too.

Not the most amazing movie of the decade - but a very pleasant way to
spend an afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
My dear old friend sent the CD to me, sick and lonely flue patient, as
she knows I used to fancy Grant. I was not prepared for this. The plot
is so generic one can predict every other scene or line. Jokes are
second-hand, too. In fact, everything in this film is second hand.

I had no hopes for SJP as an actress after SATC movies' disaster except
discovering how much scarier the woman can get in a relatively short
time, but Hugh just killed me with his wooden awkward performance. I
think he or rather his agents must realize he's past those adorable
insecure English guys and irresistible cads. You're not there anymore,
mate! It is absolutely obvious he can act other parts, like I loved
American Dreamz (though not only for him). Actually he'd be amazing in
a role that brings out the slightly sinister side you can smell just
looking at him. Time to stop charming and start acting.
