
This was one intense movie-going experience. Throughout the entire
running time of the movie, the suspense never lets up.

The director masterfully weaves the haunting atmosphere, and I was at
the edge of my seat. The plot is a wonderful puzzle, unraveling slowly
to reveal hidden layers of depth and complexity. The acting was
wonderful, emotional and nuanced, with some unforgettable moments (The
two leads - Gyllenhaal and Jackman - give their career best
performances, but the biggest achievement in my opinion is Paul
Dano's). The musical score contributes to a sense of dread, as well as
the rich sound design and the chilly color palette of the breathtaking
cinematography.

All those parts add up to a rare, gut-wrenching, dark and fascinating
masterpiece - the kind that lingers with you long after the credits
roll.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a sensitivity that Director Denis Villenueve and writer Aaron
Guzikowski inhabit in bringing their newest film "Prisoners" from
Warner Bros. to the screen. Starring an Academy Award nominated cast
that includes Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Terence Howard, Maria
Bello, Viola Davis, Oscar-winner Melissa Leo, and Paul Dano, this is a
smartly constructed and emotionally resound mystery thriller that is
thoroughly enjoyable.

The synopsis is fully in the trailer. When two young girls go missing,
one belonging to Keller and Grace (Jackman and Bello), the other to
Franklin and Nancy (Howard and Davis), a hot-shot detective
(Gyllenhaal) is assigned to the case and relentlessly tries to find the
clues that could lead to the whereabouts of the missing. When a
mentally handicapped Alex Jones (Dano) is found near the scene of the
disappearance with no hard evidence, Keller takes matters into his own
hands.

I have to say that I've never been this hypnotized with the works of
Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal. Jackman, who is fresh of his
inaugural nomination for Tom Hooper's "Les Miserables" has capitalized
in a massive way. Approaching his character with the ferocity that made
him a star in the "X-Men" franchises, he hammers his way into every
scene, keeping the audience guessing about their own moral
complexities. He tears into scenes in a way we've never seen him and
layers his character with plenty of affection, empathy, grief, and
rage. It's his best dramatic endeavor he's ever done.

When it comes to Jake Gyllenhaal, many, and probably for the right
reasons, gravitate towards his work in Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain"
as his shining moment in film history. I believe he's gone deeper in
works like "Jarhead" and "Zodiac" but those were just the surface of
what he can do as an actor. As Detective Loki, Gyllenhaal stands firm
and tall in one of the year's finest performances. Terrifically
executed as a man disconnected from real emotion, he finds himself
enamored by the mystery surrounding two missing girls. He also
orchestrates character beats and ticks that's reminiscent of Joaquin
Phoenix's towering work in "The Master" last year.

What is very refreshing in the film is it offers a great reminder of
how brilliant an actor Terence Howard is. The Oscar-nominated actor
seemed to fall by the wayside following his nomination for "Hustle and
Flow" in 2006, coincidentally the same year Gyllenhaal snagged his
first, and now has realized his capabilities when he chooses more
dynamic and passionate characters. In a film that centers around his
involvement, Paul Dano doesn't have too much to offer but is completely
adequate in form.

The film however is not entirely perfect. Aaron Guzikowski's depth
screenplay offers a great mystery story, full of twists and turns, all
the bit a tad predictable, but that's not where he falters so much. His
construction of the female counterparts, Maria Bello, Viola Davis, and
Melissa Leo, are not as crisply or smoothly put together as I'd like
them to be. They each have one "scene" that gives us their character's
motivation and the look into their cinematic psyche however, some are
thrown in quite lazily and manages to halt the story in spots.

The film's technical merits all rise to the abilities of its cast.
Roger Deakins, the most overdue Cinematographer in the business,
captures stunning portraits of conversations, weather, and scenes that
continue to prove his brilliance in the film world. The film's score is
masterfully placed by Jóhann Jóhannsson while Joel Cox and Gary Roach
edit the film to an impeccable pace. 

At 153 minutes, the film is detailed, precise, and engaging nearly
throughout. I feel there's a shorter cut of the film that would surely
be a Best Picture nominee for this year's Academy Awards if it existed.
The film could still garner that support with what they have now, but I
think there are aspects of the film members won't be able to get
around. A high level of violence and torture scenes infused with a
longer run time could keep people at a distance. One thing that can't
be denied is the towering works of Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal.
The two have offered plenty of memorable performances in their
filmography, but their work in "Prisoners" is cut and clear their best
they've offered.

"Prisoners" is a magnificent achievement for the film year. Thorough,
enigmatic, and purely amazing. A must-see for the movie lovers.

The film opens in theaters this Friday, September 20.
<|_=00=_|>
Prisoners is a gritty, incredibly well-acted, suspenseful,
thought-provoking crime drama thriller. The film mainly focus on the
choices taken and the consequences faced by the characters when worst
things happen to them.

It simply raises the question: When your kid's life is at stake, how
far are you willing to do to protect your family? It explores the
likelihood of human behaviour when such crime is happening to us,
blurring the lines between good and bad people.

For a 153 minute movie, the story does unfolds at a slow and solemn
pace (which hurts the film and might bore some audiences) but the
dramatic scenes performed by the main cast members in the film will
keep you engaged. Hugh Jackman and Jack Gyllenhaal both giving intense,
Oscar-worthy performances here, defining and developing their
characters with various layers of emotions: affection, anger, grief,
empathy, guilt...throughout the film.

The film's atmosphere, heavy rains, stormy days and icy cold winter
managed to create a dark, dreadful environment to make up the dreary
and haunting mood in the film. Every violent action taken by the
characters are acts of desperation given that they are running out of
time.

However, the film is not perfect. Despite some plot problems from the
various twists and turns shown in the film, the superb performances
from the casts was sufficient enough to make the story succeed and
believable.

Highly recommended for those who wanted to watch a serious drama
thriller with powerful, engaging acting performances from its talented
casts.

http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2013/09/movie-review-prisoners.html
<|_=00=_|>
Hugh Jackman takes you on a trip through the intense emotions a family
is put through during its darkest hour. This may be his best role to
date. From the trailers you know that his character will be out for
blood as their daughter was kidnapped, but throughout the film you feel
his pain, anger and moral struggles as he deals with this situation.
The director does an excellent job of keeping you invested in the film
emotionally even through some intensely violent scenes. Its dreary
setting provides no comfort, but goes hand and hand with the narrative.
This film may not be for those faint of heart but should be a must see
for most viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, what an intensely suspenseful film Prisoners was. The film
commences with a naturalistic and peaceful look of a suburban
neighborhood, leafless trees calmly swaying along with the cool air
that encompass them. All is fine, and a perfectly normal family visits
their friends/neighbors for a delightful dinner and some music.
Everything is fine and dandy until both family's two kids run off to
retrieve a toy they left outside. After pleasant conversation, the two
families begin to realize that their kids haven't gotten back yet. The
noiseless environment around them feels incredibly unusual, and once
they realize that their kids have officially gone missing, chaos breaks
loose. We are suddenly presented with a ruthless father (played by Hugh
Jackman) who loves his daughter so much that he's willing to transcend
any morally difficult obstacles to hopefully locate her. 

A spectacular cast, ranging from the likes of Hugh Jackman to Jake
Gyllenhaal to Viola Davis and Terrence Howard, create such a chilling
atmosphere that everyone in the audience immediately notices the
discomforting subject matter as they prepare for a disturbing viewing.
One should know prior to visiting the movie theater that this film
doesn't feature morally perfect individuals. They are all human beings
cast into an unbelievably frightening situation, and this is where
larges amounts of debate will stir. There's one side of the audience
that will persistently detest the characters' actions and the
characters themselves, and there's the other side (which I am proudly a
part of) that will essentially understand that people can't possibly
(always) be the "goody-two-shoes" heroes, perceived in Hollywood
blockbusters, in reality- that, by god, I will partake morally and
ethically questionable activities to save a precious, loved one,
absolutely! Such conversation/argument is healthy for it proves the
memorability factor of the film itself. After you witness the
terrifically-crafted picture, you will find enjoyment in discussing the
movie's events with friends and family with- eventually- two sides
forming over the talk. 

And holy crap is Hugh Jackman entirely convincing in his performance.
You can see the longing to find his sweet, innocent daughter through
his miserable eyes, filled with redness, desperation, and anger. Then,
there's Jake Gyllenhaal as the second lead, playing an ambitious cop
who holds a very impressive resume: no unsolved cases left under his
plate. Can that mean his skill will greatly help in this predicament?
On a similar note, Paul Dano takes the prize after Hugh Jackman for
another wonderful performance. No offense or anything, but he
completely fits into these immensely creepy and eerie roles. 

Speaking of, the soundtrack will definitely remain in that shocked mind
of yours long after you've left the theater because it fills us with a
sense of hopelessness and discomfort. At times, it sounds exceptionally
ominous with the disconcerting sound of those violins in play. At
others, it sounds like the music weeps for all those involved. The pace
never seems to drag even though it clocks in at around 150 minutes as
you remain at the edge of seat the entire time, utterly perplexed by
everything that's transpiring and wholly befuddled by the choices that
these people are making. The film will make you cringe and question the
humanity of the participants or the competence of our law (that word
could mean two things). Although I was slightly disappointed with the
end result, the majority of the film strongly intrigued me. And, oh,
how could I forget, the cinematography is simply amazing. Roger
Deakins, the brilliant cinematographer behind last year's Skyfall,
manages the camera-work of this film as well. As one wise critic said,
a drive in the rain never felt so disquieting- a moment of foreboding. 

Furthermore, I would not recommend skipping out on Prisoners unless
you're of the type that prefers more lighthearted and fun movies like
The Avengers. If you love films that explore more than just
entertainment and "fun," such as important themes and moral ambiguity
as a whole, you cannot go wrong with Prisoners. With a mix of top-notch
cinematography, remarkably unsettling music, superb performances, and a
thrilling/powerful story, Prisoners will definitely be one of this
year's features that I'll surely be remembering. The true cinema season
has started; now, let's hope every film from here on out delivers like
this one did.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from the theater and to be honest I went into this
movie with very low expectation! But WOW did it prove me wrong. The
film left me on the edge of my seat all the time, one could argue
things were slow sometimes but it only adds to the beauty of the big
picture.

Performance are top notch and if it was for me I would give Jackman his
very deserved Oscar for this amazing performance, of course all the
other performances were really great also but Hugh's stands out for me.

This movie is worth your time, and I'm sure by the end of it you'll
keep talking about it with your friends, for me that is a success stamp
if the movie can keep my mind busy all the time.

This is not your feel-good movie. This is a perfectly paced thriller
which I haven't seen anything like it in a very long time. For me this
was a totally new experience as I usually go for lighter movies in the
cinema, but after this movie I will go out of my comfort-zone in movies
more often to find masterpieces like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Prisoners, the new film from Canadian director Denis Villeneuve
(Polytechnique), is a top notch nail-biting crime-drama that is as good
a theatre as modern Hollywood has the ability to produce. 

Hugh Jackman and Maria Bello play the parental figures of the Dover
family. They are your average hard-working blue-collar family who begin
their story by visiting neighbours Franklin and Nancy Birch (Terrence
Howard and Viola Davis) for a Thanksgiving dinner. The Franklins and
the Dover's each have two children, the youngest of which (Anna and
Joy) head out from their home on a November afternoon to play only to
mysteriously disappear. 

Upon a frantic search, the Franklins and the Dover's suspect the worse.
Especially when their elder children tell them of a mysterious camper
that was parked just down the street. Police soon find the camper with
Alex Jones (Paul Dano) behind the wheel. Alex has the mentality of a
10-year-old and tries fleeing when surrounded by authorities. But when
Detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal) begins to interrogate Alex, he is less
convinced that Alex was a part of the abduction. As days pass, Loki and
Keller Doller work in opposite directions on the investigation. Keller
is convinced that Alex Jones was a part of the abduction and kidnaps
the frail and challenged Jones and tortures him for days in an attempt
to extract answers. Meanwhile, Detective Loki follows leads that open
up possibilities of a crime where multiple persons may be involved. And
Oscar nominee Melissa Leo appears in a supporting but pivotal role that
will assist in the closure.

The trailer for Prisoners may have audiences hearkening back to Ron
Howard's Ransom, but this is hardly the cookie-cutter kidnapping film
that Mel Gibson lead back in 1996. Prisoners instead is an engulfing
drama. One with a superb performance by lead Hugh Jackman that
challenges how far someone would/should go in an effort to locate their
stolen child. 

The script, from writer Aaron Guzikowski (Contrband) takes audiences
down many different paths and emotional rides and Jackman's performance
will have you rooting for his quest for answers even though his methods
are unorthodox and highly illegal.

The film is gritty and full of realistic characters and situations
culminating in a perfect ending that goes 9/10ths of the way in giving
its audience full closure. Not as much an edge-of-your seat thriller as
it is a Zodiac type of crime drama where the stakes are the lives of
two small children. 

Denis Villeneuve's last effort, Incendies, was nominated for an Academy
Award for Best Foreign Film in 2011. Prisoners shows that he can move
solidly into big star larger scaled films with the ease of a well worn
slipper. And Prisoners catapults Villeneuve into not just a director to
watch, but a director whose work should be awaited with palpable
excitement.

www.killerreviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Prisoners is extremely suspenseful and equally disturbing. Canadian
director Denis Villeneuve, whose last film was the equally spellbinding
and disturbing Incendies, builds up the tension from the first frame
and does not let up for the full 153 minutes of the movie. Aaron
Guzikowski's script, though on the surface a child kidnapping thriller,
bucks all Hollywood trends and, as well as being a taut thriller, poses
serious moral issues. It also helps that the film has a first rate cast
doing outstanding work: Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Paul Dano,
Terence Howard, Melissa Leo, Maria Bello and Viola Davis. Prisoners is
not for the faint heated but is likely to feature strongly at next
year's Oscars.
<|_=00=_|>
Prisoners movie review

Prisoners is a Mystery/Thriller film starring Hugh Jackman, Jake
Gyllenhaal, Terrence Howard, and Paul Dano. Prisoners is a film about
two families who both of their daughters get kidnapped and both of the
families with the help of the police, investigate and look for their
daughters. This is a very dark, grim, and at times is a hard film to
sit through. That being said, I have created a PainOmeter scale out of
five (five being the worst) to inform you guys if you simply cannot
take very violent and painful scenes. This will be addressed along will
the film's final score. I loved this film! Hugh Jackman plays Anna's
father and is the protagonist of the film. You can see how Jackman
really loses his rag and does a great job as Keller Dover. There is one
scene that involves Jackman doing something that I won't spoil but you
will notice it and go WOW! The story is also very thought provoking and
will keep you on the edge of your seat because of the direction and
character building involved with this movie. Also Paul Dano who plays
Alex Jones, is this weird adult with the IQ of a ten year old and is
the main suspect of the investigation. I thought he nailed just the
right tone of the character and was hard to "look at" at times. My
favorite part of the film was surprisingly Jake Gyllenhaal's
performance as the detective looking for the missing girls. Gyllenhaal
still plays the role of a cop very well after all of that training for
End Of Watch. Another great part of the film is that it manages to
never take a rest on character building and story development. I hate
when films give you time to take a break then start all over again and
this film really avoids that entirely. I really have no problems with
the film except for the runtime. Even though this was a great movie I
just couldn't go for a perfect grade of an A+. I will give Prisoners an
A solid.
<|_=00=_|>
Why You Might Like It: I can go on and on about the good things in this
film and why most viewers will enjoy it. It has an outstanding cast
that play their parts well, the directing and cinematography are
gripping, and the story is something to marvel. This is an excellent
film that I highly recommend.

Why You Might Not Like It: I don't know why anyone wouldn't enjoy the
movie. It does run over 2 hours, so some movie-goers might think that
is a bit too long, but I don't think this movie will lose anyone's
interest.

Acting/Casting: 9.5* - As mentioned, the casting and acting is
outstanding. Hugh Jackman gives the best performance of his career in
my opinion. Paul Dano is downright creepy and plays his part to a tee.
Jake Gyllenhaal, Terrence Howard, Maria Bello and the rest of the cast
do great work as well.

Directing/Cinematography/Technical: 8.5* - Let me just say that Denis
Villeneuve has made his mark in the US after this one. The directing in
this movie is gripping and pulls the viewer in from start to finish. I
can't say enough about all of the small things that go into making the
atmosphere in the movie amazing (the weather, the buildings, music,
etc.) 

Plot/Characters: 8.5* - This is arguably one of the better
abduction/kidnapping stories that I have seen. The plot is deep and has
many layers that keep the viewer guessing all the way up until the very
end. There is no doubt that the story plays a huge role in the final
product that you see on the screen.

Entertainment Value: 9* - It keeps you guessing throughout and on the
edge of your seat from start to finish. Movies like this are why we go
to the movies. Get out and see it.

My Score: 9.5+8.5+8.5+9 = 35.5/4 = 8.875 Email your thoughts to
filmwatchinfool@gmail.com
