
I went to see this film after I saw an initial rating on here of 8 out
of 10, but let me tell you it is very, very poor.

The film is littered with blatant product placement to the point that I
thought at some points I was watching a slick advert. The first of
these adverts is when the film lead stops to buy a drink of coke for no
reason and proceeds to slowly drink it with the can taking up most of
the screen, really just like an advert.

This was a little annoying but I kept hope that this was a small issue
in what could become a very good film. Unfortunitly it didn't and car
and phone adverts continued through the film. The script was poor and
events unbelievable. Most of the action scenes you will have seen
copied from Bourne or other action movies but made laughably similar
but much worse. The acting from weaver was poor, although I am not sure
if the blame lies with sigourney or the director. To be honest Bruce
Willis is by far the best actor and carries the film for the first
20min giving some hope it will become a good action film, unfortunately
it did not.

I have never walked out on a film but after a number of laugh out loud
moments ( at the film ), I was seriously contemplating it. I may be
wrong but i think we have a nomination for a rotten tomato award.

3 stars is being kind,
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen the Bourne Trilogy, and then you go and see this -
you're going to be severely disappointed. It's like a poor man's
version! This film tries to be everything that the Bourne series was -
but fails spectacularly. Every element of this film that comes together
to make the whole - is worthy of criticism. The storyline is
amateurish. When you get to the end of the film, you recollect what
you've just seen and think to yourself - man there were so many far
fetched scenes and wholly unnecessary ones - but then again, if plot
didn't contain them, there'd be no film! I'm sorry to be so vague, but
this film was put together like a recipe. The writer must have asked
himself - what do I need to put into an action/thriller to make it
worthy of that genre? Got all the elements together, and mashed them
together hastily to produce this utter waste of time. You're left
devoid of any satisfaction by the time you reach the end. Just don't
watch it and save yourself some money. Rent it on DVD, you'll thank me
later.
<|_=00=_|>
Even without a viewing of the trailer, I came into this movie with
mildly high expectations as the the outline and cast list sold it to
me. I wasn't expecting ground breaking, I wasn't expecting
Willis/Weaver to have the roles of their careers, I was however
expecting a middle of the road Bourne style action/mystery/spy thriller
that had me entertained and interested... I was WRONG.

Although I wasn't expecting anything new, I thought maybe a new take?
No. This movie was the movie you've seen a million times, but worse. It
was clichéd to the extreme, the acting was laughable and wooden and
everything about it seemed hard work. Even the one scene Willis and
Weaver shared together seemed laboured, like neither really wanted to
be there at all.

There is nothing memorable about any part of this film whatsoever other
than the blatant and at times literally 'in your face' product
placement. I've never seen anything quite like it. The whole movie
looked like it was written in 5 minutes with the sole purpose of
cashing in on Bourne, selling a few Audi's and cans of Cola, and
providing Mr Willis and Ms Weaver one more paycheck before inevitable
retirement (seems Weaver will do anything for a peanut these days).

2/10. Poor, poor waste of time. Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The cinematography is
migraine-inducing, the directing is pathetic and the main character is
laughable with the most exaggerated of acting methods. It seems the
entire premise of the movie is to blur in and out of frames while
affording no story, no character development and ultimately no point to
over half of the existing scenes.

I did not have the opportunity to walk out of the theater because of
the company I was with. However, if I could, I would have because it is
simply impossible to maintain any interest in this movie. I do not
think it is worth seeing anything this director makes in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
If I could give this movie a 0/10, I would.

First off, and the only good thing about this movie is, there were some
great actors and actresses in this movie. However, they couldn't pull
off their respective roles really well.

Bruce Willis is made out to be, according to the movie poster, a lead
character. Instead, he was only in the movie for the first 20-25
minutes.

Sigourney Weaver was the movie's villain. Her character tried to
project a calm, cold/chilling, I don't give a crap demeanor. Instead,
she just came off as sounding silly.

The plot was predictable, as was every scene in the movie. Product
placement in the movie couldn't have been any more obvious.

It doesn't make sense how the movie's hero, a Wall Street trader, is
able to outrun and outsmart trained CIA agents...

There are too many flaws in this movie to summarize it in 1000 words or
less so, if you are going to watch, be prepared to be bored to tears...
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first ever comment on IMDb and it is the only time i've
found it imperative to do so, simply to say that this is the worst
movie I have ever seen.

I think the whole movie was just used as a base to plug any product the
makers could find, form coke to blackberry, using Bruce Willis to help
with it. Oh how the mighty have become desperate.

From the terrible acting to the obvious clichés, this movie needs to be
buried deep underground and never dug up.

Do yourselves a favour and save yourselves 90 minutes of your lives,
maybe even take up a hobby, like watching paint dry.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember a film I've seen that has been as bad as this one. The
plot is confusing at times and very poorly written with some scenes
being laughable while the excessive and boring action scenes are pretty
dire. If the thought of seeing Bruce Willis would persuade you to see
this film regardless, don't bother; they kill him off 15 minutes in
just as you start to get a small hope he could save this abomination.
The rest of the cast give a lacklustre performance overall.

I'd urge you to please save your money and not see this film, unless of
course you enjoy an excessive amount of product placement, which is
probably the only thing this film succeeds in doing.
<|_=00=_|>
If I have to describe this movie with just one word, this will be:
"flat".

It is when a movie tries so hard to be original when you know that it
will fail miserably in doing so.

From the start the movie is victim of a thousands clichés that on and
on progress from worse to unbearable as the movie end.

There is no character progression whatsoever, dialogs are flat, there
are no indications of a script, there is none in fact.. Two sides
looking for a briefcase that contains a "something" that is not even
mentioned in the end is a pathetic attempt as a plot resource.

Even worse is the fact that Bruce Willis is non-existent in the movie,
he is basically just for the sake of putting his face in the front
cover of the movie.

Sigourney tries so hard with SO little, she surely doesn't need to
accept this kinds of roles, specially with movies such as this one.

There are so many plot holes and incoherences that I completely lost
all my interest 50% into the movie, for example, in the first 40
minutes of action, our main character was surrounded by cops as soon as
he displays a gun, he couldn't move without being surrounded by cops,
he even manage to have a warrant order for arrest from the local
police, but, incredibly enough, the last 40 minutes of the movie we see
car crashes, tourist and local people being killed for no reason,
shooting in the streets, so on and so forth with ZERO cops, totally
ridiculous!

The movies is a pathetic attempt at an action movie, flat and excessive
in violence for no other reason than the lack of a good script.

It doesn't even deserve a 2 in my scale, since any B-movie will surpass
this one very easily.

My advice, do not waste your time on this one, it's flat, boring, very
unoriginal, being done a million times before and much better.. if you
want to see real action with a good script, please, rent or take out of
your personal collection the first Die Hard, you will be much more
entertained, even if you saw it a hundred times.

Total waste of good actors.

1 out of 10, horrible.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to really pin down what The Cold Light of Day is supposed to
achieve. It reads like a concept reel for emerging leading man Henry
Cavill who will proceed to star as Superman in next year's Man of Steel
but it makes so many concessions to the sensibilities of a spy movie
that it's never going to be a real jumping point for Cavill. Director
Mabrouk El Mechri is almost entirely to blame here, making the most
unremarkable decisions that force us to reexamine the intrinsic
cleverness of spy fiction. The result is a watery, meandering spy movie
that manages even at its best moments to be completely ordinary.

Will Shaw (Henry Cavill) is barely a day into his vacation in Spain
when financial problems at home in San Francisco threaten to shorten
the trip. After a dispute with his father (Bruce Willis) on the
family's rented boat, Will decides to swim ashore for a break. He
returns to find his family gone and a call for help at the local police
station ends in more trouble. Discovering that he can recover his
kidnapped family by giving up a certain briefcase, Will must beat the
clock to unravel the underlying mystery but not before he encounters
corrupted CIA agent (Sigourney Weaver) and his lost sister (Verónica
Echegui).

On one hand, it's easy to be enthusiastic about engrossing yourself in
the story but on the other, The Cold Light of Day gives very few
reasons why you should. Better spy movies have thrived on providing
viewers with at least some clue on what motivates each character to
retrieve an important object, kill a person or escape from capture so
the audience can make sense of what transpires on screen. The Cold
Light of Day, quite questionably, never reveals or alludes to the
life-or-death contents of the briefcase, meaning the biggest difficulty
is in believing the necessity of all the carnage. It's perfectly
reasonable that Will is willing to fire his first shot and participate
in a mad car chase only because he wants to save his family. But it's
hardly convincing to have pockets of mercenaries and agents chasing a
briefcase that might as well be empty.

Such is the silliness of The Cold Light of Day that it often struggles
to establish what exactly any of its characters intend to accomplish.
If Weaver's character is indeed the CIA agent she claims to be, then
she must be the dumbest agent to ever be enlisted. With the briefcase
already tucked away in her car seat, she turns a mission-accomplished
situation into a senseless civilian killing spree as she trades car
paint with Will's vehicle down the busy streets of Madrid. Spy movies
usually ask the audience to forgive some disbelief in order to enjoy
them but The Cold Light of Day is by far the most demanding. The
slightest bit of investigation into the weak plot will crumble the
movie faster than a fragile egg tart.

Fortunately, there remains a vestige of believability in Will. As an
innocent civilian unwittingly hooked into a web of dangerous games
between mercenaries and agents, Cavill brings a sort of genuine
clumsiness to his role, allowing the audience to easily buy his
character. For this reason, there won't be any explosive set-piece or
many scenes featuring hand-to-hand combat. There're a few tricks to
prevent the action scenes from becoming too stale and while some of the
stunts are decent efforts, others don't always work. Handcuffed between
the tragic decision to set most of the action scenes in the night and
the already blurry shots of fast-moving action taken by hand-held
cameras, you would be hard pressed to find any shot of action that
isn't obscured in any way.

It's a shame because The Cold Light of Day has a talented cast which
can actually do justice to the action. However, none of them bothers to
offer a performance that's required to make other scenes work. Cavill
comes across poorly as a man who's truly shocked that his family's been
kidnapped, responding to a call from the kidnappers with an uncanny
calmness while Weaver maintains a surprisingly stoical composure
throughout. Willis's character is quickly written out of the story
before he could show his acting chops. In a year filled with other spy
movies like Total Recall, The Bourne Legacy and the upcoming Bond film,
The Cold Light of Day looks like a distant relative.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I wasn't expecting much from this film to begin with and I
certainly wasn't wrong with how the film panned out. When I arrived in
the theatre there was background music playing over the trailers and
adverts. This even continued into the start of the film! Therefore I
couldn't actually hear what was going on for the first 3 or 4 minutes.
I should have known what my experience was going to be like after that.
I thought the film had a promising start with Willis being about the
only semblance of my enjoyment. But it all went downhill after the
first 25 minutes or so. I thought the script was dire and the action
sequences were poorly directed. In some of the scenes I could plainly
tell an effort was being made by the director to imitate some classic
action scenes in the Bourne series. The whole business with the
briefcase also left a lot to be desired. 

Weaver's performance was puzzling. She appears as a ruthless agency
operative but at points in the film I was wondering if she thought she
was starring in a comedy with her outrageous behaviour in some of the
end scenes. Overall I'd say save your money for a better film that
doesn't try to rip off other films in its genre.
