
There is nothing wrong about this film... there is nothing right about
it either. It's just another Adam Sandler feel-good movie, and if you
like these (I certainly do), you will like this movie too. If you hate
them for a lack of plot or the shallowness of the jokes, you won't. I
just know I laughed a numerous amount of times, and I felt good after
having watched it.

And no, I'm not a stupid guy; I like a good plot, good acting,
directing and well-thought-of puns as does the next guy. But there are
times when you feel like watching a complicated drama, and there are
times when you feel like watching a no-brainer.

This is definitely a no-brainer, which will make you feel good from
time to time. That's why Adam Sandler makes these movies, and that's
why they keep doing so well.

They will make you feel good :)
<|_=00=_|>
If you prefer two words, I can think of any number of things to say.
Since I am bored, I will give you a full review.

If you had told me the premise of Grown Ups maybe a year ago, I would
have been stoked... "Adam Sandler, Kevin James, Rob Schneider, David
Spade and Chris Rock, hanging out in a lake house, cracking wise at
each other for two hours? Sign me up! Whats the plot? Wait that IS the
plot? You mean they just hang out and insult each other? OK OK, still
somewhat excited, it will be R rated right? No? Hmm."

That would have been my reaction a year ago. However, I first heard
about this film recently, so I fortunately didn't have any time to
build my expectations for it above "first day of school" levels of
dread. Even so, I was disappointed. Grown Ups is a horrible thing that
has been unleashed on the movie-going world.

I guess maybe I'm not giving this film any credit. There is a plot;
seems the five aforementioned stars used to play Middle School
basketball together. The coach of their championship team dies, and
THAT'S why they all get together at the lake house. Sorry if its hard
to follow but if so then maybe you will like this movie.

What follows is an odd collection of tender family moments interspersed
with fart jokes, nut shots, and fat people (Kevin James) or short
people (Rob Schneider) getting hurt. Oh and did I mention the barrage
of one-liners? Basically, the entire script is one big wry joke after
another. I guess the writers realized nothing they could come up with
was particularly funny, so they should go for quantity over quality.
There are also several running gags (the not-yet-weaned four year old,
the dog barking a lot, Kevin James is fat, etc. etc. ad nauseum). This
might have worked, if even 25% of the jokes were actually funny.

sample of actual dialogue: (wayward basketball knocks beer out of
woman's hand) Woman: Hey! You spilled my beer! Husband: Why does
everything have to be about you? Woman: Why do you have to be such a
DICK? hahahahaha! funny right? no? anyone?

Problem is I laughed maybe three times, and I'm being generous here,
throughout the whole movie. The phrase "one-joke-premise", used
disparagingly for many films, would be an accolade for Grown Ups. Oh
and lets talk about casting; I appreciate the filmmaker's decision to
help make up for their lack of skill by putting as much eye candy on
screen as possible (Rob Schneider's daughters especially). But am I
really supposed to believe Kevin James is married to Maria Bello? I
didn't believe it with Leah Remini in King of Queens, I'm not going to
buy it now. And Sandler with Salma Hayek? That one was only plausible
because they made his character filthy rich.

I could probably rant about this film for a few more paragraphs, but I
digress. You get the point by now I hope.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is terrible. What a poor excuse with all of the talent
involved. I am so glad that Adam Sandler and his friends had fun making
this piece of garbage. Next time include a paying audience in on the
joke. It would have been nice if one joke (were there any?) would have
worked. Did I mention that not one joke worked? Adam Sandler claims
that he co-wrote this mess, but we all know there was never a script.
Adam just called up his SNL drinking buddies and said, "Hey, Let's take
a vacation and film it for $80 million and charge people for it". Adam
Sandler plays just a lazier version of himself. There is nothing he
does in his movie that is amusing, but he did manage to crack himself
up in nearly every scene. So at least he has that going for him. (I
know that Adam's character stepped on the line and that is why he grew
up to be a jerk.) I don't think anyone told Chris Rock that they were
filming a movie until after it was completed. He looks befuddled in
every scene. It is a shame that he is so bad in this trash when he was
so good in Death At A Funeral. His acting in this movie is the real
kiss of death. Kevin James has never ever been funny and so I expected
nothing from him and he delivered a grand slam. Kevin spends almost
half the movie inside a KFC box. That is how embarrassed he was. Dennis
Dugan did a lazy job of directing(?) this "woodland waste". It's like
he just set the camera down and let these 5 men try to act around it. I
bet he spent most of his time trying to convince the stars how funny
each scene was. He should be Razzy nominated. I will skip to the end of
the movie because nothing really ever happened. Out of nowhere comes
not even half-baked melodrama with each couple overcoming some stupid
problem. Each issue is brought up and resolved within 5 minutes and
then never mentioned again! Why bother even brining it up in the first
place because no one cares in the slightest. The final basketball
showdown is filmed as if the entire crew fell asleep. I've seen more
tension in a Dora the Explorer episode. Sandler's final lesion is
worthless and really doesn't make much sense when you think about
everything that has happened before it. Sandler's family was due for a
loss and the evil guy was due for a win. What??? The evil guy was a
jerk to everyone in the movie. And besides how do you know he was due
for a win you haven't been in town for a long time. You know nothing
about his life. How in the world does that insignificant game change
that much? No one in the audience is buying that ending Sandler. No
one. The women characters in the movie do nothing of note, are
interchangeable and look as bored as they audience watching these 5
idiots try and make the lamest stuff funny. I won't mention the women
by name to spare them of unfair blame. And last but certainly not least
(or very least) is the acting duo (?) of Spade and Schneider. They are
so bad that they make the acting in Troll 2 look Oscar worthy. Both
should have to give up their SAG cards for this. I want to vomit just
thinking of their acting again. They are worse then amateurs. I think
both of them must be hiding a dark secret of Sandlers; otherwise why
are they here. I have an idea for Adam Sandler's next movie. Please
call it "Train Wreck". This way when it is released no one will be
surprised when it sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
Some might disagree, but I'd say Adam Sandler, Rob Schneider, Chris
Rock, David Spade and Kevin James is actually a pretty good main cast
for a comedy. But that's also pretty much what makes the movie so
frustrating, because absolutely nothing is done with them. Not only are
the jokes weak and almost maddeningly predictable, the actors don't
even get an actual story to work with. You can literally just erase
main characters from this movie and it wouldn't affect the proceedings
at all. Honestly, what does Chris Rock get to do in this movie? Can't
remember a single one of his lines, really. The movie never really
works up to a point, the characters have no goals, they just exist and
you sit there and accept it. I really wish I could say something nice
about this movie but seriously, even Steve Buscemi is bad in it. A bad
Steve Buscemi. How do you do that? Very tiresome, witless comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
What do you get when you put Sandler, Schneider, Rock and Spade in a
"comedy?" The makings of a pretty good film! Sprinkle in a little Kevin
James and Selma Hayek and you might have a bona fide hit on your hands.
Why then, does a film like this go so awry? Why did every joke miss?
Why was every character completely unlikable. There wasn't a redeeming
quality to any of the characters from the start of the film and the
kids that some of the characters had spawned were even worse. All
around, its such a dumb film that I was actually angry with myself for
sticking to it and then wasting almost two hours waiting for it to get
better. 

When they finally introduce antagonists into the movie (almost an hour
in), it's like Sandler and friends decided it as an afterthought. 

For the purpose of full disclosure, I am a big fan of Adam Sandler and
the rest of this bunch from movies like Happy Gilmore to I Now
Pronounce You Chuck and Larry, but this POS was sooooo bad. What the
hell happened to you in making this movie, Mr. Sandler? The ending of
this movie reminded me of the worst SNL skits that never really ended,
they just had the audience applaud at the end of the sketch. What a
waste!
<|_=00=_|>
Lenny (Adam Sandler) and his pals Eric (Kevin James), Kurt (Chris
Rock), Marcus (David Spade), and Rob (Rob Schneider) once played on a
junior champion basketball team, winning at the buzzer. Their beloved
coach took them to a swanky eatery to celebrate, when they were kids,
and told them to live their lives meaningfully before the "final"
buzzer sounded. But, now, as adults, the quintet may have forgotten his
words. In Lenny's household, the two sons play video games and text the
nanny for refreshments all day long while his wife (Salma Hayek) works
on her fashion designs. Lenny, a top agent, is living the good life but
can't get his kids to go outside, not even his lovely daughter. Word
arrives that coach has died and, although Lenny and family were to
travel to Milan, they postpone the trip by one day to attend the
funeral. Meeting up with his former friends, Lenny finds that their
lives are off-track, too. Eric has gained weight and has 2 bratty
children, Kurt has become a house husband, Marcus drinks too much and
chases skirt while Rob is married to a considerably older woman, his
fourth go around. Changing plans, Lenny rents a huge loghouse to let
everyone linger a few days together, ceremoniously scatter the coach's
ashes and re-connect, children, too. From hikes to swims to "paper cup
phones", this crowd is discovering what is important, right? It would
be impossible not to laugh at the good moments of this film, which
seems like a long improvisation by these experts of comedy. There are
some great lines and funny situations, certainly. No, its probably not
the most memorable film of the year but if a feel-good experience is
needed, this one should fit the bill. The cast is stellar, with all of
the major actors doing fine and funny work. For the most part, too,
they seem to work as an ensemble, passing around the catch phrases
nearly equally. This viewer, however, wished that Rock had had a few
more lines but he certainly makes the most of what he was handed.
Hayek, Maria Bello, Maya Rudolph, and Joyce Van Patten, as the leading
ladies, support the men nicely. The scenery, from the lovely wooded
home to the riverfront, is a joy and the costumes, camera-work, script
and direction are above average as well. Yes, some of the humor is not
appropriate for younger children so parents need to be cautious.
Nevertheless, if you like Sandler, James, Rock, etc and/or you would
welcome a chance to laugh with your loved ones, ante up and go see this
flick soon.
<|_=00=_|>
In all honesty I didn't have any high expectations for this film. I
only went to see it because me and my girlfriend got into a fight and
kicked me out of the house for a few hours. I had already seen Toy
Story 3 and noticed today that "Grown Ups" would be starting in 30
minutes. I said to myself, "What The Heck. It couldn't be any worse
than the trailer of it suggested." I was wrong. Dead wrong.

The plot in itself is about as thin as you can get. I don't want to get
into trouble on IMDb for posting spoilers but there is really nothing
to spoil about this movie because there really is no plot to it. It's
really nothing more than just a bunch of random 'jokes' thrown together
for a few cheap laughs. What can you expect out of an Adam Sandler film
but at least "Happy Gilmore", "Billy Madison", "Click" and "Big Daddy"
were tolerable. This film on the other hand is not.

I will spoil one thing for you however. There is an obese black woman
who is the mother of Chris Rock in this film. We get a nice little shot
of bunion and callused feet as well as her habit of farting randomly.
There are some jokes that rather fall flat such as jokes about
homosexuality and so-called 'male bonding' and the film seems to insult
today's 'tech savy' video game and texting children. Plenty of morbid
dark humor (such as making jokes at a funeral and spilling someone's
cremated ashes into a bucket of KFC.) There's also quite a bit of
slapstick (being shot in the foot with an arrow) and toilet humor
(Peeing in swimming pools.) Basically if you have an IQ of less than 45
and/or you find jokes similar to the ones in movies like "Big Momma's
House" and "Are We There Yet?", "Grown Ups" is the perfect film for
you. But if you want more intelligent humor, I suggest staying away
from this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually i am a big fan of Adam Sandler, Chris Rock and most of all
Kevin James. I was actually somewhat excited to watch this movie. How
ever when i walked out with my friends, i was telling them, it might be
one of the worst movies i ever saw. The humor is shallow and it is a
pathetic attempt for laughs. Most jokes were so predictable that they
lost all sense of humor about them. The directing was appalling. The
story was boring. I pray that there is no Grown Ups 2. Another factor
that is irritating is Adam Sandler and his pals. after the many funny
movies they made it becomes repetitave and you ask yourself why cant
there be a different cast for once?
<|_=00=_|>
This is a harsh review but exactly how I feel a few hours after
watching it - unhappy and depressed! I looked at the front cover of the
DVD in tesco, it looked fun, was £3 and promised lots with some of the
best comedy actors in the business, I was excited to see it, I love
Sandler, Buscemi, Rock, James and Schneider...then...

...Two hours later... I was wondering whether to hang myself or
convince myself that times have changed and this is what comedy is now.
This film is without a doubt one of the unfunniest funny films ever.

There can be no real spoilers for there is no real plot - that's okay
though, some films without plot are some of the best ever made - but
this is just badly written and it's one of those films where every
scene you're watching: you're thinking to yourself "Well, my Nan could
have made that scene funnier" (by writing it, not starring in it!) I've
turned away from Hollywood before and if this is the new future of
comedy then count me and millions of others out.

Is this the final nail in the coffin of the career of Adam Sandler?
Maybe! But when 'Men in Black 3' is funnier than the latest Sandler
film then you know that something has gone terribly wrong. This has
actually been £3 wasted and I've never said that about a film before.

If you want a film to make you go "huh, that was kinda comical" three
or four times in a tedious two hour sitting then this is it, if you
want to have a good laugh and feel good about yourself after - head off
elsewhere!
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely love a lot of the actors/actresses in this movie so I
originally was very excited to see it. I mean, Adam Sandler, Chris
Rock, Kevin James, David Spade, Maya Rudolph, Steve Buscemi?? Sounds
like comic gold! Nay. There was no plot & the one liners were just
constant and 99.8% completely unfunny (we get it, you like to razz each
other). It was almost like some of the actors even forgot how to act
for this movie! I laughed a few times but pretty much spent the entire
feeling like this level of comedy was insulting my intelligence. I
expected more.

My kids though did think the movie was amazing so if you are between
the ages of 6-14, you might enjoy this.
