
The first few minutes of this i was genuinely quite impressed. I've
never seen such fluid, believable movement in digitally animated
characters before, it's got to be at least as good as Avatar in that
department. It's pretty cool people can make such an authentic looking
world with computers.

The problem is, what kind of world is it?

Mars is a world which badly needs mothers, it turns out. It's a
female-run planet (shouldn't that be Venus then?) where babies simply
pop out of the ground in a kind of immaculate test-tube conception. We
don't see any male martians, they are referred to once in the film then
forgotten about. "The boys are sent below, where they are raised by the
hairy tribe guys". There are no fathers. They don't need fathers. No
one needs fathers.

There's a section in the film where family is discussed & the writers
go to some quite tortuous lengths to not mention the words 'man' or
'father' anywhere. Keep an eye out for it if you end up watching it.
When Milo is asked by a martian what parents are, he replies 'you know,
people like my mom, who look after kids like me'.

What kind of message is this for little boys, like the one in this
film, & the ones watching this film, who after all must grow up to BE
fathers? Here's the message:

You are not needed. A father's role is sperm donor & ATM machine. The
miracle of life is a exclusively female domain.

This is a misandric movie because there are no normal, ordinary men in
it, only Gribble, a fat, creepy overgrown child (subtext: what little
boys will grow up to be if they don't change their ways & get with the
feminist program) & Milo's unreliable, absent father, on screen for
literally seconds. Milo's future is laid out for us along these two
roads.

The female characters, on the other hand, are kick-ass & cooooool...
with Ki, the strong, independent, heroic graffiti artist rebel who
rescues Milo & saves the day. There are practically no other speaking
roles except for her & the mother, who is wholly good. Flawless, in
fact. She doesn't have to learn or change or grow, there is no lesson
for her. I guess mothers are the target audience for children's films,
after all they're the ones that are going to be choosing which films
their children see. So i suppose it makes good business sense to pander
to their egos. 

Awful belaboured dead-horse beating dialogue aside ("I'm looking for my
mom. She washes my clothes. She vacuums the house") this isn't actually
a badly made film, it's just a bit needless & empty, with shiny
technology being used in service of some disturbing & hateful politics.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't going to watch this movie at all because of the terribly low
score (4) on IMDb. Luckily, my kids talked me into it, and I was very
pleasantly surprised indeed.

I am amazed that this movie scored so low. Yes, granted, its nothing
groundbreaking; there are plenty of well-worn formulas applied. But its
far from unusual in this regard, and the story is full of fun
situations and characters.

Visually, its very nice to look at, and I found myself thoroughly
enjoying the time I spent watching it. So did my kids, 8 and 10, who
both thought it was great! I don't usually review movies here, but I
often check the ratings before watching films. In this instance, I am
amazed at the low rating this film received, and feel its
unrepresentative of the actual quality.

So 7/10 from me, and really at a loss as to how almost 30% of viewers
could have possibly thought 1/10 was a fair rating!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it with two of my little cousins and i was not looking forward to
it atall after hearing how it bombed in box office and everyones
reviews were really bad. It turns out I kinda liked it, the animation
was very cool in 3D, which it must be seen in 3D or not nearly as cool.

It was simple family friendly entertainment, very vibrant and original
with very creative digital technology behind it. It was fast paced and
kept the kiddies smilin'. More than I was expecting definitely, and
overrall not that bad, I would definitely recommend if you are looking
for a film to bring some kids to. As a small bonus at the end they
shows behind the scenes of how they filmed it with live action actors,
very cool.
<|_=00=_|>
The average rating for this movie by professional film critics is about
3.0 out of 5 stars. That average is realistic. I would probably give it
6.5 out of 10 if I could, but I didn't feel it was as bad as movies
I've given 6 out of 10 stars, so I gave it a 7 out of 10.

The movie uses motion-capture computer animation to apply more
realistic textures and movements to its characters, following movies
like A Christmas Carol (which wasn't as good), Beowulf (which was much
better), and The Polar Express (also much better).

Mars Needs Moms features a plot that wasn't demographically targeted
correctly. It features a boy who needs to rescue his mother from
awkwardly humanoid-looking Martians, but boys that age are working very
hard to separate themselves from needing their mothers. It is a very
natural consequence of a male's life. So while the movie might appeal
to mothers, I'm not sure it will appeal to boys.

The next problem, which exacerbates the previous one, is its timing.
The studio made a big, big mistake trying to release it at the same
time as Battle: Los Angeles, and only a week after Rango. Parents
already took their kids to Rango the weekend before, and the dads
really wanted to see Battle: Los Angeles (especially after being sorely
disappointed with the similarly themed Skyline last Fall).

A lot of movies in January through March have been juggled around
recently, causing all sorts of problems. Many movies were yanked from
their original release dates and moved out later in the year. But Mars
Needs Moms should have been released in early January. It would have
fared a lot better. As it is, the movie has been a complete disaster at
the Box Office. I fault Disney for the poor release strategy (they were
only the distributor, not the actual producer of the movie), and Simon
Wells for the rest.

There is also the point that a lot of viewers were troubled by the
Martians themselves. I think Simon Wells could have had his animators
design them a little more intelligently. They seemed awkward to me --
they were humanoid, but slightly differenced to a degree that some
people found disagreeable: legs too far apart, butts too big, and legs
like they were inflated with air. Mr. Wells also made the mistake of
giving the male Martians dreadlocks-like hair, which has accidentally
incited a lot of racist remarks, although racial nods was not intended.
(People really need to stop being oversensitive. Grow some skin,
please!)

There is an army of people flaming the movie, however, and the computer
animation is at the core of their argument, which is very curious. One
critic said, "Mars Needs Moms stands as the potentially final
Zemeckis-produced motion-capture effort, and, like The Polar Express,
Beowulf, and A Christmas Carol before it, its characters boast the waxy
complexions, unreal movements, and dead eyes of mannequins..." (Nick
Schager, The Village Voice)

What the...? I'm confused here. What standard is this critic holding
computer animated features to? I don't recall any waxy complexions or
unreal movements or dead eyes of mannequins in any of these movies, or
at least nothing that distracted me from the otherwise near
photo-realistic computer animation that has only been around a few
years. While they fall short of the realism of characters inserted into
live action movies such as Peter Jackson's King Kong and Gollum, or
George Lucas's Yoda in Star Wars episodes II & III, and certainly not
the characters in Avatar, it didn't strike me as being a requirement in
an animated feature to be THAT photo-realistic. Nobody complained about
Shrek's movements being unrealistic or his eyes being dead as a
mannequins, but clearly Shrek isn't being held to the same animation
standard. What gives?

While I'm not going to defend Mars Needs Moms on every point, I don't
understand the beating its taking from reviewers here at IMDb. It's a
fairly average film from a director who isn't very good to begin with,
with plotting that could have been better and could have been worse,
and some character design that could have been more intelligent. But
unfortunately there seems to be a subculture out there (probably made
up of mostly teens, and maybe even competing film marketers and
computer animation folk -- perhaps some Rango promoters attempting to
keep its returns high in the second week) who are throwing one stars
around IMDb with malignant glee. To give 1 out of 10 stars to this
movie is dishonest, and an abuse of having a rating system in the first
place. There were 404 people who gave A Bug's Life "1 star" for
example, and 3,284 who gave Shrek "1 star." And so forth. Movies need
to be rated with some perspective on similar movies.

Mars Needs Moms has some redeeming values. Not nearly as witty as
Tangled or Shrek, but easier to understand and more enjoyable than
Rango, which seemed to bore my two boys (4 and 7) whereas Mars Needs
Moms entertained them. In all fairness, Rango was intended for slightly
older children than mine, but I'm a pretty old child myself, with a lot
more filmmaking, movie-going, and storytelling experience than the
average IMDb reviewer, and I didn't find Rango nearly as brilliant as
Johnny Depp's ground-worshipers claim.

My advice to you, if you haven't seen Mars Needs Moms, is ask your kid
if he or she is interested, and if so, take them. Forget about what you
hear about it on IMDb boards, it's likely tainted.
<|_=00=_|>
This seems to be a movie that people either enjoy or virulently hate. I
am one of those who enjoyed the movie and I am mystified by the
virulence directed against it. Yes, it was a little long and obvious at
times but the animation was simply gorgeous, especially the cave
sequence. One poster said the animation was "too good" and felt that
animation should look more cartoony. I think the value of animation,
even if it is "too good", is that you can do things with animation that
you could not otherwise do. And as other posters have said, this movie
is actually about something. It is about the importance of having a
mother and father raise their children. Because of the title, some
posters seem to have missed that the movie is about the importance of
having fathers as well. Think of how the Martian fathers ended up in
the movie. The movie also touches on the difficulties of raising
children and on the dangers of the modern move towards "efficiency" and
outsourcing tasks to machines. The movie seems aimed at kids with the
sometimes overdone Gribble character but I think the movie is more
interesting to older audiences. I saw it with my parents and we all
enjoyed it. We are long-time science fiction fans and we loved the
science fiction aspects and the lovely scenes of Mars. I am usually
disappointed by Mars movies but I liked this Mars movie the best. It
was like Avatar Meets Mars. It wasn't perfect but it was lovely.
<|_=00=_|>
Like andrewj-lee wrote, how fun to read the obviously planted movie
reviews here. Ranging from the ones in a journalistic style to the
short and tear-jerking. That's the way to do it, Disney. As for the
movie, it is terrible. Disney is dead. The people who now control the
corporation have nothing in common with its founder. Walt Disney had a
vision, his movies had a soul. "Disney" today has only calculation,
with movies made of plastic.

For example: Who in his right mind would give a movie aimed at kids the
tag-line "Mom needs a little space."? It means that children's' mothers
want to get away from them. Is this heartwarming? Is it truly what
children should hear? Or is it just something a movie producer thinks
is a clever play on words? Few parents will pay to see a movie with a
tag-line that insults them.

The characters look freaky. Aliens with bloated heads that would make
their tiny necks snap are not a welcome sight. The anteater-like
"Wingnut" character is outright disturbing. I am reminded of the creepy
Australian children's show "Dirtgirlworld". (If you want to be freaked
out, look it up in YouTube.) At the end you have to wonder where the
people went who could make Lady and the Tramp and put true feeling in
it, with way less technology than today. Now we get
do-it-by-the-numbers productions: "Let's find a Heartwarming Subject.
Let's throw in Funny Sidekicks (loved that Jar-Jar Binks). Let's have a
Mean Enemy Boss. Give him a mean name too. In the end the kid Saves The
Day. With lots of special effects." 

What could go wrong? You did it by the numbers, right? Took it from A
to Z. Why doesn't it work? Like when you survey people about what they
like to see on a car, and put it all together to make the perfect
vehicle. How could it be a flop? (It was, it's a marketing disaster
classic.) Or when you hire a decorator to decorate an apartment in an
"eclectic" style, choosing only the most expensive parts and the most
appreciated objects in the catalogue. How could it be awful? Or when
you go to the gym and pump up your muscles, targeting exactly those
muscle groups that people are said to look at the most. How could
people think you look fake? 

How do you explain soul to a Hollywood executive - and do they care?
<|_=00=_|>
Easily the biggest flop of 2011, and pretty close to of all time, this
Disney motion-capture film is about a young boy, Milo, who must save
his mother (Joan Cusack) from Martians. In Martian society, females
rule the world. They discard the males (who then live on the
trash-strewn surface world) and the females are raised by nanny-bots.
They need the Earth mothers in order to program these nanny-bots, and
the process they use leaves the Earth mothers dead. With the help of
another human (Dan Fogler), who was brought up to Mars in the same
fashion as Milo (trying to rescue his own mother, he stowed away on
their ship), and a rebellious female Martian (Elisabeth Harnois), Milo
sets out to save his mother. A lot of viewers get stuck on the film's
gender politics. I admit they do seem a little backward, especially
with the shrill, feminist stand-in villain (played by Mindy Sterling,
whom you may remember as Frau Farbissina from the Austin Powers
movies). However, I think that Ki, the Martian girl who helps Milo, is
a positive enough female character that she should make up for the
villain (the remainder of the female Martians are more or less faceless
soldiers). If you can get past that stuff, the film is actually a lot
of fun. Simple and straightforward, but a lot of fun. It's fast paced
and beautiful to look at (thankfully, now that it's on video, you don't
have to see the colors diminished in 3D), and it's very funny. Fogler
and Harnois are both very good. Fogler's character, Gribble, is easily
the best looking motion capture character I've ever seen. Gribble is an
80s kid and Ki has fallen in love with humanity after watching sitcoms
about hippies, so they both talk in idioms from those eras, bugging
modern kid Milo the whole time. I think most kids will love this movie,
and it imparts a nice moral (respect your damn mother!). This fits in
with the late crop of severely undervalued Disney films of the past
several years, which includes The Princess and the Frog and Meet the
Robinsons. None of these films are masterpieces or on par with Pixar's
best, but they're excellent films nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not the most brilliant movie I've ever seen but it's not the worst
one either. 

I enjoyed the animation except for the way Milo's face "feels". I'm not
sure what it is, but I had the same thing while watching Polar Express:
the kids don't really have childlike faces which makes it difficult for
me to become attached to the characters. 

I would have liked to see more humor in this movie. The only part that
I thought was actually funny and sort of cute was in the end, when the
bug-like pet (Tuka??) went "ew, ew" when walking on grass for the first
time. 

I don't think this movie is suitable for small kids because some parts
are pretty creepy. For instance, when Gribble is captured by the
Martians, he ends up in a public execution place in front of a fire
squad where there are remains of the previous victims. Also, there's
the message that when you're a good kid, Martians will come to take
your mom away to do horrible things to her.

(Oh, and why do men become dumb, sloppy creatures and why aren't they
capable of creating the same sort of "intelligent" society as the
females did when left without the presence of the opposite sex? I'm all
for girl power but this really bothered me.)
<|_=00=_|>
Due to the copious negative reviews about "Mars Needs Moms," I decided
to write a quick positive one.

I've read a bunch of different kinds of bashing over this film; from
sexism and hidden political agendas to poor animation and a poorly
timed release. Now, I think we can all safely agree that if the viewer
really wants to find something negative about "Mars Needs Moms", they
won't have to look very hard. Keeping this in mind, I went into
watching this film with just one simple goal in mind, to be
entertained, and I was. This film really isn't as bad as everyone says
it is as long as you just go into it with the right mind set.

The animation is incredible, as well it should be with a $150 million
dollar budget and over 6 minutes worth of end credits of people who
worked hard creating it. Like Beowulf, the human characters look almost
identical to the actor/actress voicing them and the surroundings like
the space sequences, the garbage mountains, and the Mars tunnels are
breathtaking. This simple animation element will be enough to entertain
the open minded person. Yet, the overdone and predictable story is
still heartwarming and I believe it served as a nice reminder of how
special a mom really is. Though some of the dialogue isn't the
greatest, and there are a few ominous notes played throughout (leaving
me to recommend this movie to children over ten), wait for it to go
down from a new release rental price and give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
In Mars, the female babies are nursed by robots while the male babies
are dumped in the junkyard under the command of Supervisor. They
research Earth and finds that the boy Milo is raised by his Mon with
love and discipline.

The Martians come to Earth and abduct Mon, to use her brain to instruct
the robots about how to raise children. However, Milo slinks into the
spaceship and comes to Mars. He meets Gribble, a young man that behaves
like a child and together with the hippie Martian Ki and Gribble's
friend Wingnut, they try to rescue Mon and bring her back to Earth. But
Supervisor will give her best efforts to stop Milo and his friends. 

"Mars Needs Moms" is a delightful underrated animation about that crazy
love thing and a tribute to the mothers and to the families. There is
no explanation of how the Martians breed but the wonderful story can be
easy enjoyed by those that have the concept of family, and not
hatchery. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Marte Precisa de Mães" ("Mars Needs Moms")
