
Adam McKay is not a household name yet, but movie buffs like me know
that when he teams up with Will Ferrell, magic happens. The former
"Saturday Night Live" writer directed Ferrell in "Anchorman: The Legend
of Ron Burgundy" (2004), "Talladega Nights" (2006), and even the
popular viral video "The Landlord" (2007). Movies with Ferrell that
have not involved McKay have tried to duplicate the success of
"Anchorman", but have failed ( i.e. "Semi-Pro" (2008), "Land of the
Lost" (2009)).

As director and co-writer of "The Other Guys", McKay brings the best
out of Ferrell, Mark Wahlberg, and the rest of the cast. It combines
action and comedy better than any similar comedy I have seen in a long
time.

"The Other Guys" refers to, of course, the detectives who rarely get a
piece of the archetypal cops-and-robbers shenanigans that are
frequently seen in action movies or on "Law & Order". They remain
mainly at their desks doing paperwork, something almost never seen in
movies. Ferrell is Allen Gamble, who is somewhat content with managing
case work on his computer, and Wahlberg is the far more forceful and
ambitious Terry Hoitz.

Their characters are in sharp contrast to the cops that Samuel L.
Jackson and Dwayne Johnson portray in this film (and definitely in
other films). Although Jackson and Johnson were also funny here, I hate
that the previews gave away their cameos in this movie. It would have
been more exciting if the audience didn't expect them when they stepped
into the theaters. Then again, that is the fault of whomever marketed
this film, not the filmmakers themselves.

When Allen and Terry start working on a case they have a lead in, one
they get to before other senior detectives do, a really interesting
detective story progresses that would not feel out of place in dramas
like "The French Connection" (1971) or similar action/detective movies
to that nature.

''When you do a comedy, it does no good to reference comedies,'' writer
and director Adam McKay told Entertainment Weekly, ''You want to treat
it like a drama 80% of the way. Then, at the last 20%, you f**k it up".

The last 20% made this movie work, naturally. More than that, though,
Ferrell didn't get all the funny lines, which is the mistake that many
buddy cop movies such as the recent "Cop Out" (2010) make. Wahlberg is
as intense as he usually is in most movies, but he has laugh- out-loud
hilarious lines that he plays effectively with a straight face. His
line about being a peacock may make AFI's Most Memorable Movie Quote
list in the next few years, and the hot water his character got into in
an incident involving Derek Jeter (making a cameo as himself) made the
audience at my screening cheer. Of course, I saw the movie in Boston,
but I'm just saying.

However, the 20% of the movie that was funny was further enhanced by
the story. Again, many buddy cop movies of recent years that have tried
to be "48 Hours" make the mistake of introducing the villain early on,
similar to a superhero comic book. This movie has you try to solve the
mystery along with Ferrell and Wahlberg, and there are some decent
twists and turns that really make you wonder who the culprit is.

I will say that the mystery was a bit confusing, especially since it
involves a Rupert- Murdoch-meets-Donald-Trump tycoon (Steve Coogan) and
some financial plot. As a critic, I could pretend to accurately
interpret everything that I see on screen. However, I'm not a Wall
Street expert, and numbers involved in trading, stocks & bonds, and all
the rest confuse me. Nonetheless, even if you watch this movie not
knowing who's wrong or right and why, you will still love the ride.

The closing credits featured cleverly-animated financial facts
pertaining to the recent financial meltdown, which appeared to be
meticulously researched but still out of place. Their presence reminded
me of Charlie Chaplin's anti-Nazi plea for humanity at the end of "The
Great Dictator" (1941). His speech didn't fit the slapstick comedy of
the first 90% of the movie, but looking back, it was still necessary to
hear. I feel as though this montage of facts may have the same effect.

Overall, though, "The Other Guys" is not just another movie. Some gags
seemed a bit out of place, and the tired plot point of the police chief
pulling the main cops off the case still seeped its way into the story.
However, it helped that that chief was Michael Keaton in what could be
a comeback performance, and that he had some hysterical lines as well.
The movie tells a great story, everyone in the movie is funny without
appearing to try too hard (especially in Ferrell's case), and the
ensemble cast works together perfectly. In a year of mediocre
(non-animated) comedies, "The Other Guys" lives up to its hype.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the advanced screening tonight in New York City and it was
hilarious. The dry humor was tremendous and the chemistry between Marky
Mark and Will Ferrell is unmatched. They were so funny together it was
great. The story of the movie is pretty predictable but there legit is
non stop laughter through the entire film. The only draw back was the
length of the movie, they could have trimmed it a bit but overall it's
a solid summer comedy. Dare I say this was Will Ferrell's best
performance since Anchorman. It's certainly one of those movies you
will be quoting with your friends for a long time. The entire theater
was laughing throughout the entire thing..Great movie...go check it
out.
<|_=00=_|>
Just when you think, "If you've seen one Will Ferrell movie, you've
seen them all," think again. Ferrell is back and totally redeems
himself from the flop that was Land of the Lost by giving one of his
most genius performances to date. 

It does help that Ferrell is partnered with hottie Mark Wahlberg who
delivers a superbly-angst-ridden-yet-hilariously-gut-ripping
performance. The movie is filled with fresh, sarcastic, and humorous
one-liners, non-stop laughter, plenty of action, car chases, and
explosions, and a complex plot with a thought-provoking political
message. Just make sure you stay through the credits.

I cant't remember the last time I laughed out this loud and this often
in a movie theater. One early particular scene in the movie in which
Ferrell and Wahlberg argue over whether a lion or a tuna would win in a
fight is so well acted and delivered that I was left gasping for air
after laughing so hard. And don't be too sure you know who would win
such fight, because their logic doesn't go the way any of us could have
imagined.

I watched this movie right after I saw the painfully boring Dinner for
Schmucks. But that can't be the only reason I loved this movie because
the whole theater was laughing and clapping along with me, so much so,
that I missed half the jokes due to the sheer volume of both. I don't
know what else to say about this movie other than "Go see it--it's by
far the best comedy of the summer." Parisa Michelle,
www.CelebMagnet.com
<|_=00=_|>
Just when you think you've seen one Will Ferrell movie, you've seen
them all, think again. Try this on for size: Usual Ferrell comedy plus
crazy action plus subtle political and economical commentary plus
excellent soundtrack. The Other Guys is a surprisingly hilarious and
surprisingly action-packed movie that will keep you entertained
throughout without actually dumbing you down. Unlike most Will Ferrell
movies, you don't have to shut off your brain in this one; you actually
have to pay attention because aside from the comedy, there is a complex
crime to solve. Adam McKay delivers his best writing and directing
performance, while the excellent cast ranging from Ferrell to Wahlberg
to Keaton provides plenty of laughs, plenty of one-liners, and plenty
of entertaining moments that propel this movie past the slowest of
scenes.

The Other Guys is about two mismatched behind-the-scenes paper-pushers
(Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg) quietly investigating a series of
suspicious events stemming from a unique bank robbery. Along the way
they try to defeat their personal demons and try to figure out how to
get along with each other. Unlike most Ferrell movies, in which it's a
simple concept and improv provides the filler material, this movie
actually has a mildly complex and heavy script, but still gives the
cast a chance for a little improvisation. Written by the director and
also Chris Henchy, I'll even go as far as to say that this among the
best comedic scripts since last year's The Hangover. To add to that,
McKay and Henchy pull a neat trick by slowly feeding you some
commentary about big business and its mannerisms. The last mainstream
comedy to attempt this was the mildly underrated Fun with Dick and Jane
remake with Jim Carrey.

While this movie does not have the extensive magical gathering of
comedians like Anchorman (then again, what movie does?), the cast still
does an excellent job bringing the comedy from the script to the
screen. Will Ferrell is a little more toned-down this time, but still
has his usual moments (screaming like a girl, random quotes, random
singing, quirky one-liners). Mark Wahlberg however, steals the show
with his angry lines, his bitter delivery, and his outbursts. The only
thing hindering Wahlberg is the PG-13 rating; who knows what more
classic lines he could have pulled off if he was allowed to go uncut
(Remember him in The Departed?). Smaller roles fill the bill in the
laughs department, including Eva Mendez (beautiful as always), Michael
Keaton, Steve Coogan, Samuel L. Jackson, Dwayne Johnson, and the
cameos.

Even though Farrell has been hit-and-miss with the public and the
critics, his best work always has been with Adam McKay. Anchorman,
Talladega Nights, and Step Brothers were their previous collaborations
and those three clearly top anything else Farrell has pulled off. The
Other Guys in terms of directing and pacing dethrones them all. McKay
does more than just handle the camera and let the actors mouth off; he
stages some great action sequences and does a fantastic job directing a
slow-motion bar sequence that displays the coolest slo-mo effects since
Zombieland. The first half was so overloaded with funny scenarios, the
audience very often was laughing so hard they missed the next couple of
jokes while trying to recover from the last two. One scene in
particular had the audience nearly drown out the sound of the audio
coming from the movie.

The first half was absolutely spectacular and downright comical; the
second half never had a chance to duplicate the magic of the first
hour. This is where Adam Mckay's biggest issues have been: in the final
third of the flicks. All of McKay's movies lose steam and slow down
towards the end, preventing them from becoming eternal comedic
classics. In the case of The Other Guys, he improved a bit by still
providing some of the laughs, even though you will still feel the
momentum slowly die down. The cop clichés, while not taken seriously,
still mildly hindered the moments leading up to the climax. There were
some unnecessary scenes; a little bit of editing could have really
helped this movie. But, unlike the other movies, the third act stays
afloat thanks to the Wahlberg/Ferrell mix, as well as the continuing
mystery that was slowly unfolding. Then stay tuned for the credits,
when the commentary rushes at you full-force.

Bottom Line: Honestly, I never thought that Will Ferrell would be
involved with Mark Wahlberg, a creative script, hidden commentary (that
unveils itself when you least expect it), and a soundtrack consisting
of Rage against the Machine. Nonetheless, the combination worked like a
great mixed drink that has you asking for seconds and thirds. The
one-liners are flying all over the place, and so are the bullets. The
Other Guys is the funniest movie of the year so far, and clearly the
best surprise we've had this summer. Adam McKay continues to claim the
throne as the best comedic director in the business, and this movie is
more evidence. All McKay needs to do is cut back on the overall running
time. This is the first Will Ferrell movie that you must pay close
attention to (in terms of visual humor and crime-solving), and is
overall one of his best movies.
<|_=00=_|>
OK first off I will say that the story was just OK. But that usually
happens in comedies. So you have to rely more on the film trying to
make the viewer laugh. If you are a fan of Will Ferrell's comedy and
Mark Wahlberg, then you will pretty much laugh throughout the film.
Ferrell really gets to act like himself in this film. I mean he is
playing a character, but he gets to use his typical humor. Wahlberg
plays a really angry cop and some of the things that come out of his
mouth will really get you laughing. I actually laughed more at Wahlberg
than Ferrell. Samuel L. Jackson and Dwayne Johnson are in the film a
bit as the head cops; like a newer Starsky and Hutch. They were
entertaining. Eva Mendes plays Ferrell's wife and she is actually
entertaining. Then the chief of the police station is played by Michael
Keaton. Throughout the movie he kept quoting from the group TLC. He was
actually also pretty funny. You will find yourself laughing a lot
throughout the film. But there are some parts where they do try to be
serious and most of the time it can be a turn off in a good comedy.
There are some great one liners and scenes that will stick in your
mind. So a pretty good comedy and I will end by saying, I want to see
Mark Mahlberg do more comedic roles, because he is pretty good in them.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the film with my 60-year-old mom and my teenage son and we all
cracked up throughout the film--sometimes at different things and to
different degrees. That's touching a true cross-section!! Although the
latter 1/3 of the movie isn't quite as funny as the first 2/3, it still
brought the laughs. I can't imagine why anyone who enjoyed Will Ferrell
in Anchorman, Talladega Nights, and Step Brothers would give this movie
anything below 7 stars. 

Maybe the reviewer who said that everyone didn't get the comic
references was on to something...although I can't imagine why people
wouldn't. There are humorous references about modern technology,
sports, pimpin', geriatrics, !! Who can't find something in one of
those to laugh at?!? lol 

I say DEFINITELY check it out for yourself! I needed a good laugh and I
got one...even some true tears of laughter.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another underrated movie given only a 6.6 when a minimum should be
an 8. This movie will have you laughing throughout the entire movie.
I've watched this movie 3 times already and definitely bought it as
soon as it came out on DVD. Will Farrel is a genius at finding some way
to make everyone laugh as usual and Mark Walburge is just the touch
needed to make the dysfunctional team even funnier. I love Sam and
Dwayne's(the rock) part in the movie all though I thought they should
have gotten a bigger role. Overall a great movie and no complaints by
me at all. The casting was perfect also. I hope there's a second movie
after this or something similar to this because I haven't laughed this
much in a long time. Great comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Will Ferrell is back since the disappointing "Land of the Lost"! Who
knew Mark Wahlberg could be genuinely hilarious? "The Other Guys" is
the latest comedy to poke fun at the buddy cop genre, but this one is
one of the best because the actors and director knew what they were
doing.

Ferrell and Wahlberg have terrific chemistry and both of them have
perfect comedic timing. But let's not forget the other supporting
actors (too many to list here), as all of them have some memorable and
quotable lines.

The jokes weave through slapstick and crude territory, while not being
overly vulgar and overdone. The story is actually pretty engaging, as
it is a genuine cop mystery at its core, but it is used as a vehicle
for all the jokes to come in. And the jokes kept coming and had the
entire audience laughing as well, this one the loudest compared to the
previous Steve Carell entries "Date Night" and "Dinner For Schmucks".
Sorry Steve, this year Will and Mark stole the audience.

Having said that, the production design, cinematography, editing,
stunts/special effects are good, and the direction by Adam McKay is
lighthearted and brisk. McKay is seriously becoming a big name in
comedy film directors, and here is another memorable feather in his
cap.

Overall, if you are in need of a laugh, see this movie A.S.A.P. This
one is one of the funniest movies in years, and that's being honest.

Overall rating: 73/10
<|_=00=_|>
I typically only take the trouble to go watch a movie if it has an IMDb
rating of greater than 7 out of 10 and fits my genre preferences. So
when I saw a 7.1, I was expecting a fairly decent comedy out of two
seasoned actors. However, the movie fails on a number of counts:

1. Parts of the script play out like a broken tape recorder i.e. mind-
numbing repetition of the same lines and similar jokes. It's as if the
script writer got permission to put only 10 funny lines in a comedy
movie and tried to squeeze every last drop of humor out of them.
Constant references to TLC, Wahlberg's "I'm a peacock" line, the
constant portrayal of Will Ferrell as a paper-pushing dork etc. made me
feel like my mind was turning to mush as the movie progressed. 

2. They weren't kidding when they rated it PG-13 for "crude
...language". The movie is overwrought with misogynistic comments and
jokes. It literally reminded me of being in school watching a bunch of
prepubescent guys belt out one liners like:

"I didn't know they sold tampons on wheels" (referring to the Red Prius
that Will Ferrell drives), or, "I feel like i'm sitting inside a
v****a" (referring to the Prius again).

Orgy loving hobos, a grandma passing sexually explicit messages between
her daughter and son-in-law etc etc etc. The list is long and I could
go on all day. They really overdid it on that count. 

3. The plot is weak and devoid of details. It looks like the filmmakers
were hoping that no one would care about the story or central theme
with the "in-your-face" "comedy". Ferrell and Wahlberg are paper
pushing cops (for feeble reasons that are revealed in the movie, and
really not worth my time to list) who accidentally stumble into a case
far larger than either of them imagined. Contrary to what the plot
summary says, nobody wants a part of this case, and the only reason
they get into it is because Ershon forgets to file for scaffolding
permits for a few buildings he owns. Their investigation ruffles a few
feathers and everything goes downhill from there. All of this while
these two mismatched cops try to "find themselves", resolve their
differences, and fill the shoes of the two knuckle headed "red-bull
high" macho cops who randomly jump off a building at the beginning of
the movie. Throw in a few car chases, bullets flying willy-nilly, and a
stupid wooden gun that Will Ferrell totes around (which is supposed to
be soooooo funny for some reason), and that's the summary of this movie
for you. 

Don't waste your time with this one, unless.... actually, don't waste
your time on this movie, period.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is funny to start and rolls along nicely but quickly loses
all steam and finishes quite weak. Having every single character be an
off center borderline nutjob loses something without any straight men
to set them up or play off of. Mark Wahlberg played the straight man
part well for the first half of the movie but turns as loony as
everyone else before it's over. A few laugh out loud moments save the
entire experience but it really could've and should've been a better
film in general and certainly funnier across the board.

Not nearly as bad as Step Brothers but not half as good as Anchorman.
Probably Semi-Pro and Jackie Moon levels here.
