
Released just in time for Halloween is the macabre tale of Burke and
Hare! Set in 1820's Edinburgh, two Irish immigrants, William Burke
(Simon Pegg) and William Hare (Andy Serkis), try one business venture
after the next, and one after the next they fail. Just at the point
where they're about to face financial ruin, the duo come up with an
ingenious idea when they spot a in the niche in the market for the
supply and demand of fresh dead bodies which manages to turn their
fortunes around.

The story is inspired by true events which took place in Edinburgh
between November 1827 and 31 October 1828 when the real life Bukre and
Hare murdered 16 people and sold their bodies to a private anatomy
lecturer, Doctor Robert Knox (played by Tom Wilkinson in the film), for
dissection at Edinburgh Medical College. Although this is the 8th time
their story has been brought to the big screen, this marks the first
time that we see them as two likable lead characters.

From a screenplay penned by Nick Moorcroft and Piers Ashworth and
directed by the legendary John Landis, Burke And Hare harks back to the
days of the old Ealing Studios dark comedies like Kind Hearts and
Coronets (1949) and The Ladykillers (1955) which director John Landis
is very fond of. It looks at the friendship between these two guys and
focuses on the idea of who the bad guys really are. The doctors or the
killers themselves? Mixing in a little Shakespeare with an all female
production of Macbeth by Isla Fisher's character, Ginny, an aspiring
young actress whom Burke falls madly in love with, another layer is
added to the story. While Ginny ponders what would drive a man like
Macbeth to murder, Burke looks at her and explains the character's
motivation; "He did it for love".

By and large, I really enjoyed Bukre and Hare. The biggest challenge
the story faced was turning two mass murderers into characters you can
follow, laugh with and have empathy for and I think this film does it
really well. As Burke is talked into the business with Hare, there's
never the slightest feeling that his friend is purposefully leading him
down a path to his own downfall, unlike the real Hare who gave Burke up
in the end to escape a public hanging. Another element of the movie
which was enjoyable was seeing so many familiar faces turning up in
smaller roles; Ronnie Corbett decked out in his red and blue uniform as
Captain McLintock, Christopher Lee as Old Joseph, one of Buke and
Hare's early unfortunates and perhaps the most hilarious scene of all
is when they push Paul Whitehouse down a flight of stairs! It's a good
one to see if you're after something dark and funny this Halloween.
<|_=00=_|>
Expectations from other reviewers must have been too high. This movie
is thoroughly enjoyable, despite the subject matter, which I suppose is
the whole point. I found it to be comically dark as expected. Although
in a lighter tone than "I sell the dead" which is another good film in
the same vein. The casting was well composed and at times gave me the
feel of a Terry Pratchett production. The sets and cinematography were
spot on and very believable. I simply wouldn't try to compare this film
to any of John Landis' previous works ,it stand on its own and
demonstrates the dynamic abilities of both cast and crew. All in all
worth a go if you are in the mood for a few good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Burke and Hare is not a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination,
but it is not a bad film either or completely deserving of all the
panning it got. It is far from talented director John Landis's best
film not like Blues Brothers or An American Werewolf in London, but it
is not his worst either as is the case with Blues Brothers 2000 and
Beverly Hills Cop III.

Does Burke and Hare completely work? No it doesn't. Is it entertaining?
On the most part yes, even with the hits and misses. The film to me was
never laugh-out-loud hilarious excepting two or three scenes(Jessica
Hynes's eureka moment inventing funeral parlours being one), most of
the time it was still amusing. In my view, the sight gags were better
than the script. The sight gags range from nicely understated such as
the pot shots at Wordsworth, Lister and Greyfriars Bobby to crass
slapstick such as chamber pot contents being dropped on heads. There is
even a sex scene that raised a laugh, decide for yourself whether it is
intentional or not, whether it was or not I personally did find it
amusing. The script(the smart black humour kind) varies as well from
having a good chuckle, raising a smile to where I found myself rather
blank faced.

John Landis does do a credible job directing. He mixes contemporary
innovation and social issue with ease, and although he doesn't quite
make Burke and Hare the dark, smart, hilarious homage to Ealing comedy
it strived to be or the throwback to American Werewolf(the comedy and
horror elements are decent on their own but have mixed results
together), there is evidence of the effort which is what mattered. The
character development is very straight forward, that I do agree with,
but the cast do make an effort to make us empathise with them, and I
think they succeeded there. The Georgian setting is also convincing,
the sets are beautifully evoked and I quite liked the costumes and
cinematography too.

I do think all the cast have done better before, but I cannot deny this
is a great cast. Simon Pegg and Andy Serkis are a well-matched double
act. They work very well together, and both give entertaining
performances in the process. I also liked seeing Christopher Lee,
Ronnie Corbett, Paul Whitehouse(the scene where he is pushed down the
stairs is hilarious) and Bill Bailey even if their appearances are
rather brief. Isla Fisher(the love story between her and Pegg though is
pretty weak and underdeveloped) and Jessica Hynes are alluring and do
show at least some flair for comedy, Hynes actually is very funny, and
while they should have had more screen time Tom Wilkinson and Tim Curry
are suitably antagonistic and compelling. I do agree about the accents
being variable, I had little problem with Pegg and Serkis and
Wilkinson's was convincing, Curry just about passes, while Fisher's
comes and goes and some of the cameos don't quite make it.

In conclusion, entertaining enough if somewhat hit-and-miss. With a
longer length, perhaps more tighter pacing and some more care on the
accents it could have been more. But the direction, setting and cast
convinced me, so I enjoyed it. 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Burke and Hare is a fast-paced, fun filled riot and the title roles are
inhabited brilliantly by Simon Pegg (as William Burke) and Andy Serkis
(as William Hare). Harking back to the good old American Werewolf days,
Burke and Hare joyfully plays with your expectations, creating
characters you like and sympathise with and then making you squirm as
they nonchalantly murder their way through Edinburgh. Andy Serkis
proves that he is the most easily likable man in the world with his
earnest, all or nothing approach to acting, and as he reasons that
mankind's fate is sealed the moment they're born, you almost find
yourself nodding along happily when he suggests "helping them along the
way". Simon Pegg has the straighter role, though not by far, as he
gleefully goes from love-struck puppy-eyed romantic to monstrously
suffocating old ladies in the blink of an eye, his facial expressions,
mostly of dim witted "innocence" perfectly contrast with Serkis
(Burke's reaction to Hare's coinage of the term "burking" is
hilarious). All in all the duo are a perfect pare, thick as thieves and
as funny as, well, horrible murderers.
<|_=00=_|>
Can't believe some of the negativity on here and in the press. And I
really don't why people are saying that it isn't funny. This is a very
funny, charming film in the tradition of the old Ealing comedies. The
cinema I went to see it in was packed and was laughing all the way
through. How anyone can say that Landis has delivered a turkey is
baffling. It's witty, well shot, got great performances and it has
Ronnie Corbett! Hilarious. I think this is a film that has suffered
from all of the expectation and the mass marketing. I don't think it is
consistently laugh out loud movie but it is consistently funny. I'm so
glad that I got the chance to see something different, other than all
of the franchise crap on offer at the moment. Two thumbs up to Landis,
Pegg and Serkis and of course, Mr Ronnie Corbett, long may your career
continue! 4 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
The true story of Burke and Hare, the Edinburgh body snatchers, here is
given a first comic turn. Both the leads and the support obviously
enjoyed making this - and the result is a refreshingly straight-forward
comedy with plenty of genuine laughs.

The film is simply a well-paced and well thought out comedy -
everything for direction to script to the excellent costuming just
works - and it is one of the better comedies of the year as it actually
makes you laugh often and hard. The humour is dark enough to work, and
all involved deliver it very well indeed.

We enjoyed this one a lot, it's got the right mix of silliness with a
little horror that Simon Pegg does well, and all in this, this is just
good straight-up entertainment with a huge galaxy of British comedians
on display. Good stuff indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
While there was another movie with a similar theme, that I watched last
year, I thought this would be superior to that one. I mean this is made
by John Landis. So I was expecting quite a bit more from it, I have to
admit. It does not disappoint completely, it just feels like a bit too
light. There seems to be something missing. Character development is
straightforward, but still it's nothing grand. Something I came to
expect from a Landis movie.

Of course I might be nit-picking. The movie is not bad at all. It has
quite a few comic moments (an intercourse scene that is just funny and
could not be called arousing at all, works greatly, there are scenes of
great comedy value besides that too), but there is still something
missing to make it better. I would recommend a watch. I'd just say not
to expect too much!

Edit: I just found out a month ago, that there is a very good chance,
that there is another cut of this movie. A cut approved by Mr. Landis
himself (which seems not to have been the case with this one) ... that
would explain quite a lot ...
<|_=00=_|>
It is good to see a John Landis film back on the big screen but i feel
he missed a trick or two with this average effort. Firstly, for a film
set in Scotland i found it odd that the cast was almost entirely
English, betraying the roots of the story (and of the English cast only
Tom Wilkinson ,a splendid actor, managed to give a good approximation
of a Scots accent).

This film felt a bit of a homage to the Hammer films, a point made when
a certain Hammer Icon makes a cameo appearance (i won't name the
individual as i don't want to add a spoiler). I am guessing Landis is a
Hammer fan and to be fair to him the sets and locations work quite
well, giving Edinburgh a spooky feel to it. Both Pegg and Serkis are OK
in the lead roles and do their best to sound Irish. It was also good to
see Jenny Agutter make a brief appearance too, especially as she is
invariably remembered for appearing in Landis's American Werewolf in
London nearly 30 years ago...a nice touch by the director. In fact
there seems to be quite a lot of casting British film and TV icons in
this film (Ronnie Corbett being another) so i'm guessing that maybe
Simon Pegg or Andy Serkis only agreed to do it if certain British
childhood icons of theirs were also given parts.

To be honest the Burke and Hare story has been better done before but
this film puts a comedic twist on it that doesn't always work. The bad
language feels unnecessary for a start and the gore isn't as bad as i
thought (certainly not on the levels of the Hostel or Saw films...and
not even as graphic as the Final Destination franchise). There are some
genuine laughs to be had but usually when Pegg and Serkis are on the
screen. The story itself also swings back and forth between gruesome
and the unexpected romantic angles that may have been intended to show
Burke and Hare as committing their crimes for something other than just
greed.

Basically this is a reasonably graphic horror story with heart and
morality that has some good laughs but falls flat in a few areas. The
cast give it their best shot and whilst it has an old fashioned feel to
it in many ways, it is the unnecessary post-modern touches, the
inconsistent rate at which the comedy comes and the rather odd casting
that jarred me. However do keep an eye out for the odd cameo appearance
from some famous actors and comedians.
<|_=00=_|>
Burke and Hare is a story of two men in Scotland in the late XIX
century barely making a dime when an opportunity comes along to earn
hard cash by killing people and selling their bodies to the benefit of
science.

This movie may seem morally rotten at its core making a comedy out of
murder, but it succeeds at it while quite a lot of comedies with far
less harmful plots don't, not to mention that some of the most popular
TV shows of today make it fit right in. John Landis comedies much in
common with ZAZ productions and sometimes are almost live action
cartoons. The title characters are shown as flawed people in a
desperate situation which they think justifies their actions - we don't
laugh with them, only at them. And that's intentional.

John Landis came back with a surprisingly decent feature. It's as if
the MTV-style cinema revolution has passed him by (the one that hit the
new Sherlock Holmes square in the face). No camera gymnastics, no
forced sensual assault, all the action and physical comedy happens in
frame. Burke and Hare is his first 2.35:1 feature and it shows - the
frame at first appears a little too wide, like if the characters were
taken from a 16:9 movie and arranged accordingly. By the way, "highly
entertaining", "very funny" and "packed with the cream of British
talent" - those bits on the poster aren't far from the truth.
<|_=00=_|>
The amazing Simon Pegg in this historical comedy based on the real life
murderers Burke and Hare. Very funny all the way through, witty and
with a star-studded cast of the English screen. Have wanted to see this
since it was in the cinema and I can't believe it's taken me this long
- well worth the wait! Some cringeworthy gross bits, but an all round a
romp of a good film. So many laughs. Some at the expense of the
accents.

Reminiscent of Plunket and Macleane with dark bawdy humour and little
colour, period pieces with lots of physical humour and style in keeping
with how the times would have been, not too showy and "hollywood." Pegg
and Serkis were brilliant together and Jessica Hynes is always a comedy
genius. British film at it's best.
