
This movie looked so promising based on it's trailer. Not to mention
the visuals were absolutely gorgeous. It had this fantasy quality about
it without looking fake; even though you absolutely know its green
screen. Also, the plot premise was such an interesting idea;
star-crossed lovers separated by the science of their universe. I was
excited to watch it because I thought It'd have an "inception-like"
quality. HOWEVER, I was horribly wrong. 

The character development was just sort of...there. And no real
relationship ever seemed to develop between the characters. It went
from WE LOVE EACH OTHER to I DON'T KNOW YOU to WE LOVE EACH OTHER again
without anything real happening. The romance has a bad back story and
the sudden realizations were too flimsy. Adam was adorable in his
endless attempts at trying to get to Eden. But thats all. They were so
flat in the end and nothing interesting happened. Not to mention, the
excitement factor was a bust and it was clichéd and awfully expressed
in the end. It felt like I was watching a poem told with gorgeous
figurative language, but lacking any substance, heart, or care. The
movie needed a better plot, it needed more events, it needed more
character development, and it needed a lot of polishing up. Since it's
main point of drama was in the romance and even THAT was awfully put
together, all in all, it was flop.

However, it was an okay watch and again, the visuals of such a
disorientating world totally threw me off whack. For the next ten
minutes after the movie, I felt like things should be floating upward
and I should be upside down...it was weird but showed that I actually
did get immersed into the world.

My recommendation? GET A BETTER WRITER
<|_=00=_|>
If there is one thing "Upside Down" has going for it, it's the visuals.
Good God, the film is gorgeous to look at. We've seen hints of a
similar visual style in the "Total Recall" remake and "Inception," but
the filmmakers milk the unique look in "Upside Down" in as many frames
as possible. At times, the visual puns can be a bit too obnoxious to
the point it becomes stupid, but overall, they portray the "dual
gravity" idea really creatively. Of course, with fantasy films like
this that operate within its own set of rules, you usually have to
ignore the implausibilities and just go along for the ride.

However, the story is a whole different matter. As the film opens to
explain the world's rules through voice over rather than showing it on
screen, I knew I was in for trouble. Within the first five minutes,
exposition after exposition is thrown to the audience at such a quick
pace it's almost impossible to keep up. It also doesn't help that the
dialogue is downright embarrassing. With the film's over-reliance on
narration, "Upside Down" leaves little time for its characters to
develop which consequently makes the story as a whole feel contrived.

For example, the love interest that grows between the film's two main
characters comes out of nowhere. Unfortunately, actors Jim Sturgess and
Kirsten Dunst don't have the chemistry to sell their newfound romance
authentically as well. Every story development feels fake and
mechanical where it should feel natural. Furthermore, the film lacks
any real climax, so the last 20 minutes where everything should build
up to a resounding resolution, instead, just fizzles out to an
anti-climatic, deus-ex-machina-like ending as if the story didn't know
how else to end.

"Upside Down" has a great idea that should have been a lot better than
it ended up being. However, it's obvious the filmmakers were more
interested in focusing on the visuals than actually telling a good
story. "Upside Down" proves that as awesome as visuals can be, it can't
overshadow incompetent storytelling and a weak plot.
<|_=00=_|>
The film's setting is magnificently beautiful, there are a lot of
stunning ideas and images and the main story is good enough to make the
two-planet world look real. The one and the only one flaw of the film
is that it pretends to be a sci-fi film rather than a fairy-tale in an
unusual setting. If you judge it as a sci-fi you will find a lot of
"how could it be" things that tear the imaginary world apart. The
actors are great and it is fun to see Spall as a protagonist friend
rather than foe. Both Sturges and Dunst are wonderful. So if you want
to watch a sci-fi film you better avoid "Upside Down". This is a love
story set in the fantasy world. No more, but no less.
<|_=00=_|>
Einstein once famously said, 'If you can't explain it simply, you don't
understand it well enough.' Nothing truer could be said about the
writers of this movie as the long, drawn out explanation of the way
'dual gravity' works not only loses the viewer in less than five
minutes after the title credits roll, but also shows how the writers
don't understand their own physics later. For example: ever tried
drinking water upside down? Well, this is exactly what the main
characters do as a fad in a club. Mass has no effect in some shots, but
is critical to others.

A crude ticking clock device is employed whereby matter from one world
will start to burn after some time in the other. Humans are exempt from
this, yet every time Adam ventures into the upper world, the effect is
used as a cheap gag rather than anything substantial to drive the plot
along.

The Evil Corporation's building linking the two worlds together is
laughable, and instantly reminded me of 'The Fall' tunnel in 'Total
Recall'. The middle level is where both gravity fields meet, but rather
than being canceled out resulting in a zero gravity situation, we have
the ludicrous image of a split office where the superior 'uppers' work
on the ceiling and pass briefs and office supplies 'down' to their
'lower world' people.

The Evil Corporation also has this highly valuable anti-matter that
floats in bottom-world but sinks in top-world. It is supposedly so
valuable that it is tightly controlled to avoid the 'lower' employees
stealing any. In a move totally unexplained, our hero is able to
stock-pile about 80 pounds of the stuff and use it to walk around the
upper city unchecked.

The editing was terrible. Nothing caused any sense of urgency or
suspense. During a chase scene, the hero is edited to safety, and later
once his method for entering the upper world is revealed he is just
edited there.

The acting and characterization were awful. The male lead takes his
style from the Shia LeBouf School of stuttering stupidity. He doesn't
tell his love interest who he is for absolutely no reason other than to
drag out the movie; telling her who he was before making a mission to
see her would have been the logical thing. Dunst's character has
amnesia (seriously?!) which may be unintentionally emphasized by the
way she says her name.. every.. time. 'I'm Eden... Moore.' There was
also no clear antagonist, just a poorly explained 'system' that somehow
messed up the two characters' lives. Again, absolutely no suspense is
created by this aspect - we can't force ourselves to care about these
two fools.

The only redeeming feature was the stunning visuals. The world looked
really great, but not nearly enough to raise itself out of the clichéd
and derivative muck that holds this movie back. Elements borrowed from
Total Recall, In Time and The Fountain ensure that it struggles to find
its own definitive identity; a crappy movie made in a laboratory from
the rotting and discarded parts of other crappy movies.

To conclude, both physicists and lovers of great film will be united in
their screams of outrage and apoplectic spasms brought on by their
utter disbelief of how this film tramples roughshod over both
disciplines. Avoid this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's imagine an impossible setup, and tell it like it was science.
Then start ripping it apart with every action, each one more impossible
than the one before it. Add some impossible beings, made impossible by
the previous impossible setup, and make them a secret central point of
the whole plot. Now throw in some socio-political overtone to
everything you say and do. Don't explain it, just throw it in, it
doesn't need to make any sense. Also add some romance. No one will know
where it came from, or how it got there, but nevertheless this will be
the main plot.

Oh, and make some stunning visuals. No matter if the rest doesn't make
any sense at all, the few stunning scenes you thought up will more than
enough to make up for that. Just repeat each scene a couple of times
throughout the movie.

End up with something nobody expects, makes no sense, is completely
impossible according to all you told your audience before, and adds
nothing to the story... except some stunning visual and a faint
political statement.

Makes you think the film was not "written then filmed", but rather the
other way around: first there were the visuals, then someone sprinkled
some random stuff all over them, and this movie came to being.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a love story set in a world where there are two worlds
separated by different gravities.

On the surface, "Upside Down" is about a man from down below falling in
love with a woman from the world above. In reality, the message is so
profound, as it describes class and societal segregation. It shows how
the less privileged (the world below) are separated from the privileged
(the world above), and the upward social movement is impossible. People
from one world pretend he is from another but in vain. People's hopes
for a better life are shattered by societal limits. This difficult
struggle is happening everyday in the world, where people in a country
wants to move higher, or people wanting to move to another better off
country in search for a better life. We don't normally think about
this, but "Upside Down" brings such a problem to the foreground of the
consciousness in a way that stimulates thoughts.

Visuals in "Upside Down" is stunning. From the sombre colour schemes
down below, to the beautiful lights above; from the macabre buildings
below to the majestic buildings above, every scene is beautifully
crafted and presented in a surreal manner. Just the visuals alone make
"Upside Down" worth watching. The soundtrack is excellent as well, it
adds to the beauty of the scenes.

I enjoyed "Upside Down" a lot. I hope it will reach a wider audience.
<|_=00=_|>
The romantic/ fantasy/ sci-fi movie is set in an alternate universe
where the protagonists' planet is subject to a unique phenomena called
dual gravity. There are two distinct societies; one living 'Down
Below', a poor slum-like area, and another living 'Up Above', rich,
prosperous city-like area. These worlds are connected via a building
from a corporate giant 'TransWorld'. Matter from Up Above and matter
from Down Below are affected by opposite gravitational forces. People
from one society can look up and see beyond the clouds to see the other
world. The story is about Adam, an orphan from Down Below, who has been
meeting with Eden from Up Above in secret trysts since childhood. This
is strictly forbidden in their worlds and authorities respond to one
such meeting using guns which result in Eden falling down (up?) to her
apparent death. Adam also loses his surviving relative because of this
incident.

Years later, he catches a glimpse of Eden in a TV channel and learns
that she is alive. He concocts a plan to meet up with her by joining
TransWorld and sneaking visits Up Above. He does this by attaching
heavy metals from Up Above to his body - allowing him to counter his
natural gravitational pull and walking upside down (which would be
right side up in Up Above). He learns that Eden has lost her memory
after her fall, and he tries to get her to remember him.

The movie is spectacular. The visual effects of the other world 'Up
Above', especially the outdoor scenes, are beautifully rendered. The
indoor sequences are also masterfully crafted - seamlessly integrating
Up Above and Down Below in the same frames. It can be a bit distracting
as we are not used to such visuals, but it is undoubtedly unique.

However, the movie calls for a very specific audience - You have to
have a basic understanding/ appreciation of the science of gravity or
you may not follow some of the narration, but at the same time, you
can't be too involved in science, or you may be hung up on how
ridiculous the explanations provided are. They try to explain the dual
gravity rules by saying that these are two planets which are perfectly
in sync with one another. Simply put - gravity does NOT work that way.
Planets are not selective about which matter they exert gravity on.
Also, there's a case of selective scaling - The worlds are sometimes
close enough to fall from one to the other in a matter of seconds; but
at the same time are far enough to accommodate entire mountains. Also,
this world has climate - clouds and rain that just do not make sense in
the context of the given scenarios. You have to like Science, but be
willing to overlook errors of such basic nature. Overall, it is an
experiment in showing an impossible world in a unique setting. In this,
they succeed.
<|_=00=_|>
Upside Down creates a fascinating universe beyond our imagination. It
is so amazing, it could have been something groundbreaking. The story
is a romance that is suppose to defy gravity. It starts with a great
promise and many imaginative ideas were featured. Unfortunately, the
journey suffers incoherence and leaves several unsettled details. It
tries to tell a deeper meaning about love but none of it worked because
of its terribly underdeveloped plot and awful romance. It could have at
least given some sense to their love but it doesn't provide much
exploration to their relationship. The visuals are undeniably
breathtaking but the plot gets the opposite which results a story that
fails to be compelling.

The idea is wonderful. Who could imagine a world like that? It may be
scientifically unbelievable but it doesn't matter. As long as it has a
substantial story. Sadly, that story is unable to achieve its message.
Even if it's quite gripping, the film calls for something better. The
central plot is about a man who risks everything to get his love back.
The first and second act really shows a lot of intrigue to the premise
but falters when it goes through the rest. The biggest problem is
probably the romance. It is poorly portrayed. It's hard to understand
why do they love each other. Yeah, they had a childhood together and
they are good looking but what else? That's almost the only thing we
knew about them because every time when it stumbles to their
relationship, it becomes a montage of inaudible chatter thus never
really get to know them more. Even the talents couldn't save their
love. Jim Sturgess is always charming as a lover boy. He gets a lot of
things to do in most vital parts but only did little to the romance.
Same goes to Kristen Dunst, except she is mostly underused. In other
cast, Timothy Spall appears as an older version of cliché best friend
roles in romantic comedies.

It also leaves some unanswered questions in the end but that ending
chooses forget almost everything from those questions. Despite of the
story's inconsistency, the visuals are the landmark here. It is a
brilliantly designed world that can be both trippy and fascinating.
Mashing several styles like steampunk and typical futuristic details.
Much magnificent is when it take turns between the aspects of the two
worlds. There are two sequences that can be goosebumps worthy. These
portraits are so gorgeous, it is best to see in cinema. It would still
be worth watching if you're one of those people who doesn't care about
the story even if its flaws are inevitable, but it still deserves
something better.

Upside Down is visually breathtaking but it didn't go beyond that. The
romance is beyond bland and it spends most of the time doing stuff that
achieved so little to the plot. When I said the romance is beyond bland
I mean it has no personality, no depth, no meaning. It's pretty vague.
This likely proves that even the most stunning visuals cannot bring
justice to a problematic story. It's disappointing because it wastes
the potential of the visuals and the first half. Instead of being
compelling, it rather shows how beautiful the two's relationship is
with a grand scale universe in the background. Aside of the love story,
the context between the two worlds are intriguing but there is nothing
else about it besides of what it was explained which it isn't enough.
It still has its merits. In a nutshell, the film itself is like the two
worlds. The visuals are on the top, and the rest are on the bottom.
Make sense?
<|_=00=_|>
The story behind the movie is interesting, it was a pleasure watching.
The special effects and imagery as a whole are astonishing, although at
certain times "unfinished", "half-rendered". The actors fit well in the
story, and it's needless to say they performed good. 

Still, I was a bit disappointed when I discovered that at this time the
movie is still on post-production and what I've seen was a not a final
version. In U.S. the movie will start in December 2012, but producers
decided to start returning money in Eastern Europe, falsely thinking
that people here have lower standards for special effects and stuff.

Anyway, the idea is good, execution too, and after the movie i expected
cookies to float up from the box :)
<|_=00=_|>
The story is basically a new version of Romeo & Juliet. Since the movie
has really stunning graphics and unique world setting, my eyes were
enjoying catching every details scene by scene. Actors/actresses are
good that they made the love story so sweet. I just think the story
might has a better ending if more budget was allocated to the film
making. I think it is a bit too short right now. When you are going to
watch this film, I would advise you to keep your mind open to the
story. Don't be too picky about the details of the two universes and
their technology. Anyway, The story is so romantic and original, it is
worth to watch in the cinema. I feel refreshing after watching the
film.
