
I'd like to keep my review rather to the point.

Pros: 1. its theme - dream is a fascinating topic to say the least.
There are a lot of unknowns in dreamworld. 

2. its plot - there are several sweet twists and unpredictable turns. 

3. its edgy drive - although you know what's coming next, still you
feel jumpy about it when it does.

4. its rapid storyline - the story moves fast from one scene to
another, making the viewers feel like on a roller coaster ride. At
times, it's hard to keep up, even after watching it several times. 

5. its sophistication - there is a lot of information to remember and
digest. This is the very thing the modern moviegoers are after, I
believe. 

6. its realism - okay, pun intended. The movie explains (or at least
tries to) the ins and outs of what dream is about and how it functions,
some of which are very familiar with and dear to us.

Cons: 1. its poor character development - although the acting was
convincing enough there was not enough of character development. I
wonder how many people really felt connected to the main character(s)
after watching the movie. Yes, the movie talks about emotional
struggles but it was more of an action film than anything else, if you
ask me. 

2. too many distractions - I found that the movie had more characters
than necessary. They may play certain roles in the plot but they seemed
more of distractions than anything else. I wish the movie was more
focused. 

3. a bit preachy - I noticed that the characters would explain things
about dreamworld and then the exact things happen later in the movie.
I'm afraid, Inception overused this trick. 

In conclusion, its theme is fascinating but its delivery is not without
room for improvement. 

I highly recommend you to go and read Somewhere carnal over 40 winks,
if you dig this kind of flicks. 

Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
What is the most resilient parasite? An Idea! Yes, Nolan has created
something with his unbelievably, incredibly and god- gifted mind which
will blow the minds of the audience away. The world premiere of the
movie, directed by Hollywood's most inventive dreamers, was shown in
London and has already got top notch reviews worldwide and has scored
maximum points! Now the question arises what the movie has that it
deserve all this?

Dom Cobb(Di Caprio) is an extractor who is paid to invade the dreams of
various business tycoons and steal their top secret ideas. Cobb robs
forcefully the psyche with practiced skill, though he's increasingly
haunted by the memory of his late wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard), who has
a nasty habit of showing up in his subconscious and wreaking havoc on
his missions. Cobb had been involved so much in his heist work that he
had lost his love!

But then, as fate had decided, a wealthy business man Saito( Ken
Watanabe) hands over the responsibility of dissolving the empire of his
business rival Robert Fischer Jr.(Cillian Murphy). But this time his
job was not to steal the idea but to plant a new one: 'Inception'

Then what happens is the classic heist movie tradition. To carry out
the the task, Cobb's 'brainiac' specialists team up again with him,
Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), his longtime organizer; Tom Hardy
(Eames), a "forger" who can shapeshift at will; and Yusuf (Dileep Rao),
a powerful sedative supplier. 

There is only one word to describe the cinematography, the set designs
and the special effects, and that is Exceptional! You don't just watch
the scenes happening, you feel them. The movie is a real thrill ride.
The action scenes are well picturised and the music by Hans Zimmer is
electronically haunting. Never, in the runtime of the movie, you will
get a chance to move your eyes from the screen to any other object.

Leonardo, who is still popularly known for Jack Dawson played by him in
Titanic, should be relieved as his role as Dom Cobb will be remembered
forever. His performance may or may not fetch him an Oscar but it will
be his finest performance till date. The supporting cast too did an
extraordinary work. Christopher Nolan, ah! what a man he is. His work
is nothing less than a masterpiece and he deserves all the awards in
the 'Best Director' category. If "Inception" is a metaphysical puzzle,
it's also a metaphorical one: It's hard not to draw connections between
Cobb's dream-weaving and Nolan's film making, intended to seduce us,
mess with our heads and leave an ever-lasting impression.

To conclude, I would just say before your life ends, do yourself a
favor by experiencing this exceptionally lucid classic created by
Nolan! 

My Rating: 10/10

Thanks & Regards
<|_=00=_|>
Usually I try to be careful with over hyping a film, or setting the
expectations too high, as film geeks all are guilty for, however for
Christopher Nolan's Inception, this really is not possible.

This is possibly one of the only perfect films I have ever seen. It is
absolutely confident in every way, something which is extremely
refreshing, even more so than Avatar. Christopher Nolan gets some slack
for making great to look at but ultimately heartless affairs, which I
for one do not agree with, however I do not think anyone can argue that
here. The emotional aspect of this film not only ties it all together
but is really the centre of this film, it is the focus. 

I do not want to over simplify the film, by simply calling it Kubrick
doing Bond, or Gondry on a huge budget, because I am sure it will be
called that but it is far more than that, it is something I do not
think Kubrick could have ever made. It is pure Nolan, and pure
greatness.

I hate writing something which is pure fan-boy gushing, but its really
difficult here. I did not find a thing I did not like about it, I am
sure if maybe I saw it a second time, maybe I would find something
about it I didn't like, but not the first time. The way it is cut,
means that there is always action on screen, if not, then the visuals
are interesting enough to keep your eyes glued.

The final hour of the film, is possibly one of the most complicated
action sequences put on film. You have to constantly be paying
attention to remember all of the layers of what is happening. Without
spoiling anything, all I have to say is that is what this film is
about, that is what makes this film so great, layers. Once you have
seen this you will now what I am talking about.

All of the actors are fantastic too, Di Caprio is the stand out here.
Yes, this is probably due to the fact he is the star and given all of
the emotional weight, but he handles it perfectly, similarly to his
performance in Shutter Island. Ellen Page, whom I usually hate, gives a
great performance here. Tom Hardy gives a break out performance here,
he is quite the bad ass.

I hope audiences are ready for a film like this, a pure auteur driven
film which does not sacrifice a single frame for the studio. I would
hope this film will change Hollywood, as it is 100 percent the
directors vision yet it is definitely a marketable film, much like
District 9, yet I do not think it will. 

I cannot recommend this film anymore than I have, I just have to say
everyone and anyone should see it. Sorry about all the gushing, it is
just so hard not too.

If you liked this review check out my new film blog:
http://thedeletedscene.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Films about dreams and the subconscious are usually not very
straightforward and almost always weird. "Inception" is no exception to
that rule, but like its cinematic predecessors who have explored the
contrast between and the questions of what is real and what is illusion
(i.e. "The Matrix" (1999), "The Cell" (2000), "Abre Los Ojos" (1997) &
its American remake "Vanilla Sky" (2001)), you really can't look away,
nor should you.

"Inception" is an excellent and breathtaking movie that may be one of
the only films released so far during the Summer of 2010 that lives up
to its hype. It is a nearly perfect and highly original film that holds
your attention until the credits roll. The less you know about this
movie going in, the more you will be entranced by seeing it.

Leonardo DiCaprio plays Dom Cobb, a world class criminal who, with the
help of a team of sleep experts, works his way into people's
subconscious and steals what people value most: ideas directly from
their minds. In his last assignment to possibly clear his name, he is
assigned not to steal an idea from someone, but to plant one inside
that person's mind. The difficulty comes when certain people are
trained to block their ideas from being taken.

That plot summary only covers the basics of this pretty complicated
story, but to describe every plot detail would take away the magic of
this film you must see yourself to believe. DiCaprio is good in his
role, but unlike many other films he has starred in, this is perhaps
his only role where his character alone does not carry the weight of
the movie on his shoulders or share it equally with one other co-star.
Instead, this great ensemble cast teams together to make this movie
work, just as their characters collaborate to pull off such a unique
heist. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, and Tom Hardy are especially
good in their roles.

The special effects in this film were also very good, which is amazing
considering their simplicity compared to the "Matrix" movies. There are
slow-motion shots, but no impossible kung fu fighting sequences. It's
especially interesting when the film gets into the architecture of
certain dreams, and impossible sequences are filmed in a way I've never
seen other than in drawings.

However, the special effects would mean nothing if the story wasn't
good. For this reason, even something as simple as a spinning top holds
your attention in a way you would never think it would when seeing it
in this film. The credit here can be given to writer and director
Christopher Nolan, who has not made a bad film yet. There are many
twists and turns in this film, but Nolan never loses his focus in the
process of telling the story. If Nolan does not get nominated for Best
Director and/or Best Original Screenplay next Oscar season, there is
something terribly wrong with the Academy.

That being said, there was still a lot about this film I still don't
get, and may require multiple viewings to better understand. However,
some of the best films I've seen are confusing at first. "2001: A Space
Odyssey" (1968) is a film I've seen a couple of times, and still don't
understand completely. It still has a major following, though, as I'm
positive this movie will. It's an incredibly entertaining movie, but it
also makes you think and continues to do so after you leave the
theater.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Memento very recently, something that turned out to be a great
miss.I saw it again, just to make a couple of thins straight-and i'll
definitely do the same with Inception.

Christopher Nolan keeps improving himself, with even more complex and
multilayer script like this.And i thought Memento was hard to reach by
most of the viewers, but no.Inception will keep you mesmerized and
captivated by the genius, that's hidden behind it.And not just
directors and screenwriters (or with other words-Nolan), but with
acting and sound-and effects and editing as well.

When you have a cast like this-i mean Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph
Gordon-Lewitt, Michael Caine, or Marion Cotillard (a personal
favourite), the movie just keeps going flawlessly.Most of the crew is
the same the Nolan brothers worked with on TDK and earlier in Batman
Begins.So the Oscar noms in those categories are a certainty for me.

The only thing one could have against the movie, is the headache one
could have.See, most of my friends go to the movies for brainless
action, they enjoyed Iron Man 2 and The A-Team, but this movie-you have
to see it at least twice, to understand it.The levels and the layers on
which thing are happening are so many, that one surely'll miss
something vital.This is a reason for not fitting to the mass audience,
but i hope that won't happen, because Nolan is one of my favourite
directors/writers, and he showed, that the brainless action flicks
aren't all of it.There are still movies like Inception out there and
still people like the Nolans to make those movies, so it's not all
lost.And i hope this movie could show the audience that the story is
still important for the experience one could receive, not the endless,
constant explosions.Because this is really a one of a lifetime event.

Saying that, i must say, that in a world full of remakes, reboots,
sequels, prequels and God knows what, this is a unique chance to see
something different and unmatched so far-a strong movie, that, surely
will be Nolan's latest masterpiece! My Grade won't change-it's the same
for all Nolan movies-sheer 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Dom Cobb leads a highly skilled team, specializing in stealing secrets
from people's minds by entering their dreams. When they are hired by a
mysterious businessman, Cobb finally has a shot at redemption, but not
before achieving the near impossible. Rather than stealing an idea,
they must do the complete opposite: Inception. Planting the seed of an
idea.

Inception has a multi-layered plot, quite literally in fact. It focuses
on the emotional journey of its lead character, Cobb, but at the same
time thrusts the audience into multiple levels of action packed story-
telling, very distinct from one another, but all finely connected. It
has been described by critics as "a film that rewards intellect", and I
can assure you that it is exactly that. Director Christopher Nolan
challenges the audience to keep up, and rewards those who can with a
breathtaking spectacle, one that has the capability to leave you
awestruck. The best part about it is that while you may feel you need
to watch it again to be able to fully absorb the experience, chances
are, you will probably want to.

Christopher Nolan brings his unique vision to the screen with the help
of a star-studded cast, including the likes of Leonardo Dicaprio (The
Departed), Joseph Gordon-Levitt (500 Days Of Summer), Ellen Page
(Juno), Marion Cotillard (Public Enemies), Cillian Murphy (Batman
Begins), and Michael Caine (The Dark Knight), as well some amazing
photography by long time collaborator Wally Pfister. The thrilling
music in the film is provided by none other than Hans Zimmer, who was
also set the mood for Nolan's previous film, The Dark Knight.

While it may seem simple at its outset, Inception is an extremely
complex film, delving deep into the subconscious of the human mind.
Technical brilliance and visual splendor have rarely blended together
as beautifully. The emotional depth and explosive action complement
each other perfectly, delivering a film that is at the same time both
heart- wrenching and heart-pounding. It's a film that manages to
engross you with its complexities, yet comes together seamlessly, and
will have you at the edge of your seat, quite literally from start to
finish.

Inception is magnificent.
<|_=00=_|>
What is going on with the IMDb user reviews lately? It's like the
masses can no longer be trusted. In the last month, the users have
decreed "Airbender" the worst abomination ever, when in fact it's just
an average movie. User reviews raved over "Despicable Me", when it was
about as entertaining as a "Dexter's Lab" rerun. And now? "Inception"
is the 3rd best movie ever made? Are you kidding me? This was a very
creative and interesting flick that went waaaayyy overboard. The
problem with this genre (you know the genre -- was it a dream? or a
dream about a dream? or a parallel universe where people dream they're
dreaming about parallel universes while pretending to dream) is sooner
or later you stop caring about the actual action because it's a dream.
So the 20 minutes spent watching gunfights and car crashes in the
pouring rain, and the 30 minutes spent watching these guys shoot up a
ski fortress, and another 30 minutes watching what's-his-name float
around a hotel just didn't do it for me. Not a terrible movie, but 3rd
greatest movie ever? You must be dreaming.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm nearly at a loss for words. Just when you thought Christopher Nolan
couldn't follow up to "The Dark Knight", he does it again, delivering
another masterpiece, one with so much power and rich themes that has
been lost from the box office for several years. Questioning illusions
vs reality usually makes the film weird, but Nolan grips your attention
like an iron claw that you just can't help watching and wondering what
will happen next. That is a real powerful skill a director has. No
wonder Warner Bros. put their trust in him, he is THAT good of a
director, and over-hyping a Christopher Nolan film, no matter what the
film is about, is always an understatement instead of an overestimate
like MANY films before.

Not since the eras of Stanley Kubrick, Andrei Tarkovsky and Alfred
Hitchcock has there been a more brilliant director than Christopher
Nolan. He is, undoubtedly, one of THE most brilliant and gifted
Hollywood filmmakers in history. Filmmakers like him come but just once
in a lifetime. He has the ability to seduce our eyes, ears and most
importantly, mind, and then delivers what he intends to deliver in full
blast. Rarely have blockbusters have the gall to deliver such amounts
imagination and intelligence at the same time. And yes, it is similar
to the excellent anime film "Paprika" in the whole "invading dreams"
plot, but the similarities end there as Nolan brings the film to a
whole different level.

Visuals and intelligence rarely come together in movies at the same
time, it's either all-visuals-no-smarts ("G.I. Joe", "Transformers") or
the exact opposite ("Doubt", "Invictus"). In this film the excellently
directed action sequences combined with immensely groundbreaking and
jaw-dropping visual effects are combined smoothly with a heavy dose of
intelligence and believability.

Although having an ensemble cast and financed by a Hollywood giant
studio (Warner Bros), this film is a very personal film for Nolan, he
wrote the film as well as directing it, and as you watch the film you
get many glimpses of Nolan's perplexing, increasingly imaginative
thoughts and dreams in the dialog that he writes and the plot that he
sets up. Ideas have never felt more interesting and put to good use
than in this film. This film is NOT for the popcorn muncher, rather it
is a film for thinkers. Honestly I can't explain the plot for fear of
spoiling the movie for you readers. Even the slightest hint will ruin
the experience. The viewer will walk out of the cinema feeling dazed,
confused and ultimately breathless. It's like a puzzle, both physically
and mentally, and you have to pay attention throughout the film for the
clues. However Nolan controls the spectacle of the film and is careful
not to let it overwhelm the film's humanity, and this is where
"Inception" shines. It is a very deep film that will have one thinking
and asking questions for years to come. That's right, years.

Once the film ends, you'll want to watch it again, for there's
something new every time. This is a film that requires multiple viewing
for someone to truly comprehend the film's ambiguous themes, and will
be discussed by many in the future. This is an original film, no
adaptation, no sequel/prequel, no remake/reboot, which is extremely
refreshing having gone nearly three years of mostly unremarkable visual
effects roadshows ("Avatar" be damned).

Of course, a film is not complete without the actors. Leo DiCaprio
delivers an Oscar worthy performance, similar but better than his
previous effort "Shutter Island". He shows glimpses of a flawed, grim,
fragile man, who has knowledge about everything else but yet can't seem
to come in grips with himself and his demons. Joseph Gordon-Levitt,
Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Ken Watanabe, Dileep Rao, Cillian Murphy, Tom
Berenger, Michael Caine, Marion Cottilard, Pete Postlethwaite, Lukas
Haas... Nolan really brings out the best in this unusual yet extremely
talented group of supporting actors who make their roles their own.

Nolan is of course, a master behind the camera, a real virtuoso when it
comes to film. His direction is taut, focused, gripping, and
extraordinarily fascinating. The detailed and complex original script
is no surprise from Nolan, considering the fact that he turned Batman
the superhero into pop-culture art two years ago ("The Dark Knight").
The action sequences are unique, exciting and fresh, something absent
from the cinema which has since been interested at things popping
towards the screen and stuff blowing up every two milliseconds. The
visual effects are awesome and imaginative, and best of all they do not
bring down the movie's quality one bit, rather it makes the movie more
fascinating to watch. The cinematography is absolutely, beautifully
shot, so we can see the action and emotion in all their glory.
Production design is top notch, with terrific design of sets and
locations. Hans Zimmer's complementing music score is simply
outstanding, and knowing the man, that's really all I have to say.
Together all of these elements combine to deliver a mesmerizing movie
experience like no other this year.

Christopher Nolan has once again outdone himself. He truly is a gifted
filmmaker, arguably the most imaginative in Hollywood today. And
"Inception" can proudly stand alongside "Blade Runner" and "2001: A
Space Odyssey" as science-fiction masterpieces that push the boundaries
for movie making and become a different experience altogether.

There are two types of films: the crowd-pleasing blockbuster and the
intelligent indie/art film. Nolan has combined two of these tropes
together into one exceptionally brilliant package, pulling off that
rare, now nearly-extinct Movie Magic that has since been wiped off the
planet by sequelitis and reboots. Movie of Summer 2010? Movie of 2010?
Heck this is possibly the first masterpiece of the decade! Nolan is a
genius and I applaud him for treating his audiences as intelligent
people.

Missing this film and not getting the film's point is a crime.

Overall value: 9/10 (Excellent)
<|_=00=_|>
Inception is truly one of a kind. A concept which has long gestated in
Christopher Nolan's mind, his eye for drama mixed with his large scale
sensibilities ring true in Blockbuster season making Inception a true
original in the sea of reboots, remakes and sequels.

To try and explain Inceptions many plot twists and incredibly
intelligent arcs, would be a foolish task. As Nolan himself has been
reluctant to. The best way to approach the film would be with an open
mind, if you are prepared to be taken on a ride of a lifetime, then
trust that you 100% will. If Avatar was a seminal film in technology
(although coming out as a rather poor film, in my opinion), then
Inception is seminal in it's storytelling. With a 148 minute running
time, you would expect a lot to take place, but what you wouldn't
expect is the pace of it all. I did not think at one time in the film
about how long was left. I was simply blown away by the depth in every
single part of the film. If my enthusiasm for the storytelling aspect
of the film has left you worried about the spectacle, then don't worry.
They are, as hinted in the trailer, incredible, looking real and
unbelievable simultaneously. The most pleasing thing about the action
set pieces, is that they are genuinely used to illustrate the story,
rather than to blow stuff up a la Michael Bay.

With this complex movie in it's high concept, a stellar cast is needed.
And Nolan as always, delivers with just that. This is vintage DiCaprio,
perhaps only equalled in The Aviator, which is even more impressive as
his role as Cobb in Inception is not a showy one, needing DiCaprio to
be the constant at the centre of the film. And he pulls off Cobb's
emotional contradictions sublimely. The rest of the cast members all
shine in parts of the films, Cillian Murphy shows off his usually
non-existent tender side, Gordon-Levitt bottles his usual charm for his
confidently reserved turn as the reliable Arthur, Watanabe is devilish
as the seemingly ambiguous Saito, Page shows why she's the next big
female star and Tom Hardy revels in being the comic relief of the film
compared to his recent turns as decidedly psychopathic characters.

Overall, Nolan has indeed surpassed himself. He has created a world as
expansive as his Gotham, a plot dwarfing the intricacies of Memento and
one which blows The Prestige's cinematic reveal out of the water. This
is truly unmissable cinema. Revel in it, we've still got to wait a
whole two years before Batman 3.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the privilege of seeing this movie before it came out, and, like
most of DiCaprio's films, it blew me away.

Inception is a well-made movie, filmed in about 6 locations all over
the world. The directing was outstanding, there were only about two
moments, maybe three seconds in total, where i noticed that visual
effects were being used (of course defying gravity is pretty
difficult). 

The plot was very pleasingly intricate, with a twist-and-turn,
keep-you-on-the-edge-of-your-seat type feel. I noticed that this film
had similarities with DiCaprios thriller Shutter Island (which i also
enjoyed very much)seeing as it left you wondering what was real and
what was not. It's great to see a movie with a thick and emotional plot
and not just grenade-throwing action heroes who achieve greatness in
the end.

Inception also has a very well-composed score, which to me was the
finishing touch to a perfect movie. If you're thinking about seeing
Inception, definitely go! Even though i was fortunate enough to see a
free show, it is worth every penny you pay. 

Truly unique, like nothing i've ever seen before. Christopher Nolan
certainly covered new ground with this film and wasn't afraid to leave
us hanging with a spectacular ending.
