
What persuaded me to watch this movie was the blessing bestowed upon it
by the stories original creator, Stephen King, who claimed: "I wasn't
prepared for how good it really was".

He's not wrong.

"IT" is quite extraordinary. The attention to detail, the subtle but
effective comedic undertone and the exquisite cinematography not only
do the original title proud, they make this re-imagining of the
original classic even better than its predecessor. 

It's a very scary film but what impressed me was how true the film
sticks to the original's tricks; it isn't filled with loud in-your-face
jump scares, in fact, a lot of what makes this film scary is the slick
cinematography and intricate shadow play. The use of lighting and
creation of atmosphere is what makes this film so tense, which is why
it's perfectly suited for those who like Horror movies but without the
obnoxious gore.

Watched the pre-release as a critic - August 28th.
<|_=00=_|>
IT truly is the scariest movie of all time... If you're 10 years old or
younger, maybe.

I honestly am shocked by all the positive reviews and high rotten
tomatoes score. Did I see a completely different movie? 

IT starts off very well with a genuinely good opening scene. Great
cinematography, atmosphere, lighting, a likable child whom you connect
with easily, and an interesting encounter takes place between this kid
and a very creepy clown. The dialogue is good, there is an eerie sense
of dread, and a moment where IT aka Pennywise goes from being a
friendly-ish clown to a terrifying villain in an instant through a very
well placed awkward stare. It was a moment I wasn't expecting and gave
me hope for the rest of the film, then... It's all downhill from there,
after an almost laughable use of CG. 

This movie has big issues. IT isn't scary. IT's story is weak, if you
can even call it a story. IT has too many underdeveloped characters.
And IT is a counterproductive villain with no concrete rules for what
IT can or can not do.

The overuse of CG ruined any sense of tension or fear and Pennywise's
tactics didn't make sense. If he feeds off fear, why reveal himself to
each of the kids within a close time period? Why not concentrate on
each child individually, causing far more mental torment and making
them an easier kill? Pennywise also just randomly manifests himself
anywhere at anytime, and disappears randomly. I don't find it scary
when the antagonist manifests itself, attacks a character and right
before doing damage IT vanishes..

The story is a mess and there are far too many characters. I swear the
first 40 minutes is the longest montage in film history. A montage of
each child's development and exposure to Pennywise. It was predictable
and monotonous. As for the story, I don't know what to say, besides
there really isn't one. Character motivations are weak, Bill is the
only one who makes sense. Where were the parents at? Not a single
parent seemed to care about their missing children. The few on screen
parents there were, came off as caricatures. And there were a few
scenes that felt completely pointless within context of the story. The
school bully and his dad, being the oddest.

So in closing, IT is an uneven movie or more accurately a collection of
scenes that don't flow well in a tangible story. There are some good
laughs, and a few entertaining scenes. But all in all it's just an
average movie. Which should've been an evident sign, when the original
attached director Cary Fukunaga jumped ship.
<|_=00=_|>
The opening scene is good. From there on...not as much.

I guess this movie will please those not familiar with the book much
more than those who are. That being said, I don't think it is possible
to make a satisfying adaption of "It" without doing it the Game of
Thrones way. More time is needed to dwell on each of the novel's parts
to create the feel the book gave us. To tell the story as it was told
on paper. So I guess I'll forgive the filmmakers for that.

The kids are okay. They've managed to portray the losers and the
relationship between them decently enough- considering the running
time. Again: more time is needed for better development. Much of what
actually happened between the kids and It has been cut, but again -
running time. They had to.

That they've changed the setting from the 1958 to the 80s was a bad
choice, and so are the other changes. They're creating scenes that
aren't in the book. They're changing things that are there. The biggest
problem I have with the film is the execution of the horror. Constant
jump scares, way too much CGI, and a complete lack of understanding of
the fact that less is more. Waiting for a scare is the scary part of
horror, and this movie just throws everything at you constantly. It
just isn't terrifying. At all.

I didn't find myself bored, though. Besides the poor performance when
it came to being scary, it is an okay movie. It just isn't a good
adaptation.
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to win a preview screening to 'IT' on the 30th of August, in
Sydney. I had high expectations for this film - and IT exceeded them. 

The acting. Great performances all round. The kids had great chemistry,
and you really believe that they were all great friends. It reminded me
of Stand By Me and The Goonies. Out of the child actors, Richie (played
by Finn Wolfhard) was my favourite and his jokes cracked the whole
cinema up. Bill Skarsgård as Pennywise is scary and really creeped me
out, but for me there was just something missing about his character
and I think he wasn't given enough dialogue.

A minor flaw for me was that the plot was a bit rushed, in terms with
the development of Mike (played by Chosen Jacobs), but for an adaption
from a book, they managed to condense the original material very well.

Overall, it (no pun intended) was a great thriller film that kept me on
the edge of my seat, with strong performances.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the pleasure of seeing an advanced screening of IT in Brisbane.
The film is absolutely brilliant. Bill Skarsgård has taken Pennywise
and made the role his own. Creepy, disturbing, humorous, IT really
possess the creep factor, giving audiences a new reason to fear clowns. 

The entire casting choices were sensational. All actors really held
their own, creating a sense of comradery between the characters. 

Like most people, I do hold the miniseries with Tim Curry close to my
heart, but after seeing this adaptation, I was beyond pleasantly
surprised. So much so that upon IT being released into cinemas, I'll be
back in line to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the film was good, but didn't really live up to expectations. I
didn't find it that scary. Admittedly, one of the jump scares worked on
me but otherwise I never felt any dread looming in the pit of my
stomach. The film is gorier than the mini series. That's for sure. And
I liked that updated aspect, but nothing particularly shocked me. There
was quite a bit of special effects that just were not very good. And I
think that's a big reason why I just wasn't very scared.

The other dumb thing I want to mention is that sometimes the characters
fell into predictable horror movie tropes. Its just kind of silly when
they've already been scared by Pennywise many times. Knows this all
"isn't real" and yet will wander off by one of the missing kids going
"Come here". I mean, really? You're going to fall for that? I think
what does save this film are the performances. Bill does a good job
with Pennywise. However, he does lack the charm that Tim Curry had. But
those were always going to be big shoes to fill. (Clown pun not
intended). The kids though were amazing. In particular Jaeden Lieberher
(who played Bill) and Sophia Lillis (who played Bev) were the
standouts. I also want to give a shoutout to Nicholas Hamilton (who
played Henry) for managing to make me feel empathy for a bully. Finn
Wolfhard (from Stranger Things) plays Richie who is meant to be the
jokester of the group. And Finn does well with that character. I just
wish the writers had laid off from the jokes some of the times. You're
supposed to be building tension and it kind of gets ruined when he
opens his mouth to make a joke about period blood or whatever.

I see the potential in this film. And I think it could have been really
good. I just think they spent too much focus on "shock value" rather
than building on an atmosphere.
<|_=00=_|>
It has become ritual for me to read the novel "It" once a year every
year since it was released in 1986. The story is more than a gore-fest,
it's a story about love and hope and friendship that is still
meaningful to me to this day.

The only thing this movie has in common with the beloved book, is its
name and the characters names. IT is a literal disaster and a slap in
the face to anyone who actually read and cherishes the book. There are
NO character backstories, nor character development at all. You are
literally thrust into the movie expecting to know everything about
everyone and why they are the way they are. IE: Henry Bowers and why he
hates the "Losers Club" - He LITERALLY starts the movie trying to kill
them. This is sad, because a large portion of the novel was
meticulously spent doing quite the opposite and made you relate to and
fall in love with the characters.

Editing? What editing? This is the worst edited movie I've ever seen in
my life and I've seen a lot in 41 years. It was literally like the film
makers shot 100 scenes, put the film in a hat, and took out said scenes
and spliced them together at total random. I can't describe it any
other way than saying, at one point, one of the characters (I can't
tell who, because they all share the EXACT same personality) says, "I
banged your mom last night", or something similar, and before the
audience can even react, the scene changes to a jump scare happening in
ANOTHER PART OF TOWN INSTANTLY and with no rhyme or reason. You don't
have time to laugh at jokes, because they aren't funny (unlike Stephen
King's jokes in the book) - and you don't have time to be scared,
because you're still trying to process the dick joke that was still
being told when the scene abruptly ended.

While the filming location for the town of Derry was suitable, having
the movie take place in the 1980's instead of the 1950's JUST TO
APPEASE the "Stranger Things" crowd was simply a terrible decision. The
1950's were a totally different time, and much of the characters'
reasoning and mannerisms that you need to make this movie work are lost
to a time and cultural difference. These guys call themselves "THE
LOSERS SQUAD" in this movie for god's sake! Kids didn't start calling
themselves a "squad" until the 1980's (IE "The Monster Squad) So, you
love the book like me and are still reading? Thank you! Now let me list
just SOME things that we both LOVE about the book that you will NOT
find anywhere in this movie: The Deadlights, The Ritual of CHUD, The
Mummy and the bridge, The Loser's Club Dam in the Barrens, the moving
picture book (now its a slide machine), The Smokehouse, "This is
battery acid", The Werewolf, Making the silver bullet after a game of
monopoly, The stand pipe, Bower's hair turning white, "beep beep
Richie", the giant bird, the 50's racism against Mike (actually Mike
Hanlon himself is missing. The writers just made arguably the most
important character an afterthought in this movie), character
backstories, "Hi Ho Silver-AWAY!", Haystack... I could go on and on and
on.

With god awful editing, absolutely no character backstories, cheap teen
jump scares, not being faithful to the book, and too much CGI usage:
Simply put - if you want to know how this movie is like the book, read
the first 10 pages of "IT", and burn the other 1077 pages because that
is exactly what the screenwriter and director did to this failed
abortion.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know what to say. There was so much wasted potential here.
I will say that the cinematography, the location, and the children (The
Losers Club) hold up really well for this film. Yet, I'm still sitting
here after seeing this premiere and I'm still shaking my head. 

Here is the one thing for me, that ruined the movie. If you don't want
any spoilers I suggest you stop reading. Here goes..

What is going on with all the CGI in this film? Computer animated
graphics have never scared me and this movie is littered with seemingly
terrible and unimpressive visual effects. I had a feeling this was
going to happen after watching the directors previous film "Mama"
Anytime something was seemingly scary, or anytime I thought "Hey, this
movie might redeem itself" it was almost instantaneously followed by
some cheap jump scare with a villain who was computer animated to look
scary. The human eye is easy to detect how fake CGI can be and folks,
let me tell you, this movie relies INCREDIBLY HEAVILY on computer
animated effects. No incredible monster movie effects from the 80s
here. The sad part about it is that the movie takes place in the 80s
(instead of the 50s like the book). What better way to write a
beautiful love letter to the time period than to get some natural,
realistic, and horrifying movie effects? The 70s had The Exorcist. Top
notch REAL effects. Do you remember The Thing from the 1980s? ThHOSE
PRACTICAL EFFECTS STILL HOLD UP TO THIS DAY. Its truly sad to see
computer programs taking the forefront to create scares. Anyway, I'm
rambling...

For all of you fans of the book out there.. Spoiler alert again..

You WILL be disappointed. It only uses the book as a small guideline
for the story they decided to craft here. There is no Ritual of Chud.
There is no Mummy, Werewolf, or drowned children in the Standpipe.
Everything is rushed. This film is just a complete mess and it pains me
to say so. 

If you haven't read the book, maybe you'll have a decent time if you
can handle CGI. I for one thought IT was extremely disappointing,
confusing, and ultimately boring and cliché. God, I wish this could
have gone a different way.

If you are truly interested in seeing IT... Please...please.... Save
your money and go see something else. Or at the very least, wait to
rent it.
<|_=00=_|>
I already had low expectations of this movie because of the immense CGI
in the trailers. I felt super conflicted with this movie because the
acting was amazing by the entire cast, however there was way too much
'comic relief'. This is a horror movie. I wanted to feel terrified
because I was stuck in terror just about the whole movie. I should have
left the theater sore because of being too tense. This did not happen
at all. There was only one scene in the entire movie that felt like
this and it was the bathroom scene with Beverly. That was literally it
(no pun intended). The clown was so cliché when it comes to cheap
horror movie antics of the 2,000's. It has the retractable teeth like
every new zombie movie since the Umbrella Corporation and It moves all
jumpy like every ghost movie that has been out since The Ring.
Absolutely NOTHING scary about the clown. If Tim Curry weren't in a
wheel chair I would have rather had him come back and take the place of
Penny Wise without ANY CGI. All of the CGI made this movie pure CRAP.
The script writing was ridiculous and felt like it had been pushed
through the works entirely too fast. Each kids fear was super cheesy
and AGAIN, nothing but CGI on the tackiest scale they could have ever
done. It felt like this movie had SO much potential but it was all
thrown away because they were too afraid to make it 'actually scary'.
Those of you who are REAL horror movie fans, you WILL be disappointed.
This should have been a 'straight to Netflix' movie as far as I'm
concerned and I wish I could have gotten at least 1/2 of my money back
<|_=00=_|>
The brand new #ITMovie scared the heck out of me and I don't throw that
around loosely because just when you thought that "Annabelle: Creation"
may have set the bar for this year, bam! "IT" comes along and smashes
that bar into pieces. Wow! This is one incredible horror film,
everybody involved should get a congratulatory pat on the back,
definitely a huge upgrade from the '90s miniseries. This is best
Stephen king adaptation yet.

Directed by Andy Muschietti, based on Stephen King's timeless novel of
the same name, IT is set around the mysterious disappearance of
children in Derry Maine, when a group of young kids will have to come
face their biggest fears and square off against an eternal evil clown
named Pennywise who comes around every 27 years to repeat his reign of
terror. 

It's no secret and it's not really a spoiler that New Line and the
filmmakers of this new version have planned to re-imagine this story
into two installments, with the first focusing on the children and then
chapter two will be about their grown up selves once again battling
Pennywise. So with this first chapter, I think the timing of its
arrival couldn't be more perfect especially with last year's debut of
the hugely popular series, "Stranger Things" that brings up '80s
childhood nostalgia while presenting mystery at the same time, "IT"
offers you that same vein and I think that's OK because we haven't
gotten to the point where it's played out so for the time being you're
going to love that aspect about "IT." There's definitely a "Stand By
Me" vibe to it as well, and the whole thing does feel episodic, at one
point while screening it I didn't want it to end, it felt like I was
binge-watching, it was so cool. Kudos to all the young actors featured
in this film, they really hold their own and each of their characters'
distinct personalities stand out. Their backstories and their process
of slowly but surely coming together as some sort of a team is both
honest and engaging. 

Now, if you've ever read Stephen King's book, "IT," you'd recall that
it is a super duper thick book. You can use it as a stool to stand on
for when you need to change that lightbulb. But the point is, I think
the screenwriters of this new film did well in condensing the story to
just the right amount of time that contains just the right mix of kids
camaraderie and the horror fest that is Pennywise. And if you've
watched the '90s miniseries, you'd recall how much that version held
back plus the low quality practical effects that they had at the time.
Well, I'm happy to tell you that this new "IT" doesn't hold back, this
is Pennywise unleashed, it's practically proud of being R-rated, which
is great because it allows for the scary parts to be really really
scary and not second-guessing or pandering. 

And if you have never liked clowns before, you're going to hate clowns
even more because Bill Skarsgard's performance as the new Pennywise
will haunt your dreams for the next few weeks after you've watched this
movie. What I appreciate about Skarsgard is that he doesn't try too
hard to emulate or imitate or channel Tim Curry, Skarsgard does his own
take of creepy. And because Pennywise is pretty much invincible to a
certain extent, you'll see him pop up in the most unlikeliest of places
meaning when you least expect him, that's when he'll scare you to your
core so brace yourselves for surprises around every corner. Another
reason why the timing of this movie's arrival could not be more perfect
is because today's visual effects compliment Pennywise's limitless
abilities and so director Andy Muschietti and his crew have the
creative freedom to not only realize some of the scare points in the
book but they managed to also go beyond that. "IT" goes for massive, it
goes for bold, it goes for bloody, not a single boring minute, it goes
for the "Goonies" fan in all of us. You will laugh, you will scream,
you will have nightmares, hands down one of the best horror movies ever
made. 

-- Rama's Screen --
