
Movie 43 is a collection of twelve short films starring twenty-five big
name celebrities and not containing even a fraction of the laughs in
its ninety-seven minute runtime. Connected in a disjointed manner and
baiting the audience by a filled cast, this is one of the most
unpleasant times at the movies one could have. Not since Garry
Marshall's Valentine's Day have we seen so many shining actors succumb
to such joylessly impotent material. Only this time, the material is
not only impotent, but crass and well over the line of reprehensibility
to the point where one shakes their head and assures their inner-self
to walk out of the theater, walk to the nearest video store and rent as
many foreign films as they can carry.

Before I go into any of the shorts, let's have a small and formal
discussion about offensiveness. At no point was I ever personally
offended by anything Movie 43 had to offer, mainly because its attitude
to offend in every way possible was distracting and artificial. When
looking at the past films I've seen that were deemed "offensive" by
some, say, Team America: World Police, there was not only fun in its
premise, but satire in its writing.

The outlying story concerns Dennis Quaid, a desperate man who is
pitching a film idea to Greg Kinnear, a filmmaker looking to strike a
deal. Quaid will be the one introducing all the setups to Kinnear, and
we'll return to the two men after every short to watch Kinnear's
contrived reaction and Quaid's facile justification. Let's begin.

In the first short, how funny is it to see Kate Winslet and Hugh
Jackman go on a date, with everyone being oblivious to the large
scrotum attached to his neck except for Winslet? How funny is it when
Jackman accidentally gets pubic hair in his soup, and puts his
neck-scrotum on a baby's forehead? The next short shows Shameless's
Jeremy Allen White as a homeschooled teenager being tormented and
manipulated by his parents who are trying to recreate the dangers and
turmoils of high school. When the poor kid's mother tries to instigate
incestuous sex with her son I wanted to leave the theater and never
turn back. But such a thing didn't happen.

We then watch Chris Pratt and Anna Faris, who are both married in real
life, as a young couple on a romantic date when Faris pops the
question; "will you poop on me?" she asks her boyfriend. I refuse to
comment on where this goes. We are then given the awkward short of a
supermarket employee (Kieran Culkin) confessing all the dirty and
depraved details of his relationship to his ex-girlfriend (Emma Stone)
while accidentally leaving the PA system on, as a crowd of anxious
shoppers forms to watch this travesty unfold. Next comes Richard Gere
as the boss of a corporation called "iBabe," which is a music player
that is a lifelike naked woman, drumming up heaps of controversy. Then
a speed dating event involving Batman and Robin (Jason Sudeikis and
Justin Long) and Kristen Bell's "Supergirl," who is ostracized for
having an unusually large vagina.

But probably the most heartless, offensive short of them all involves
poor little Chloë Grace Moretz, who is hanging out with her boyfriend
at his home when she experiences her first period. As she is dripping
blood as if she has just been stabbed, her boyfriend's older brother
(Christopher Mintz-Plasse) helplessly runs around the house screaming
and searching for things to clog her uterus (frozen peas and a sponge,
anyone?). What follows is a dopey Leprechaun predicament involving
Seann William Scott and Johnny Knoxville, a basketball game where Coach
Terrence Howard tells his team that because they are facing a white
team and they are all black they will win the game, and we end on a
shallow and empty-headed note as we expected.

The only short I neglected to mention is called "Truth or Dare,"
starring Halle Berry on a blind date where she initiates a game of
truth or dare, which goes on to become a disgusting and repetitive
affair. Berry crushes guacamole with her breast (a prosthetic, I assure
you) and inserts extra-hot hot sauce into herself with a turkey baster.

I can't fathom the thought that I'm explaining this as elaborately as I
am. Did the seventeen writers and twelve directors (among them, Peter
Farrelly, Elizabeth Banks, Brett Ratner, and Bob Odenkirk) have an
ounce of self-awareness to the humor that made their past films work?
How did they manage to allow their cast of champions to succumb to
demeaning, scatological, desperately unfunny filth? Before you claim
the actors did the job for the money, I must inform you that Movie 43
is reported in only costing $6 million to make (excluding marketing
costs which I'm willing to bet are ten times more), so that argument is
almost wholly invalid. Were they genuinely smitten by the idea and the
script of it all, or did they just feel that they all played their
careers safe and decided to challenge their comfort zones and the
harmless audiences' by attempting to push boundaries? I left the
multiplex knowing three things today I had not previously grasped;
number one, the spoof/skit genre is uniformly dead, and can not even be
revived by a large group of directors, writers, and actors, all
reliable and capable. Number two, to not get high hopes for a comedy
with large names being released in the month of January. Number three,
that in no way, shape, form, or instance is a woman's menstrual cycle
funny and to victimize a fifteen year old actress is a simple act of
cruelty.

On a final note, why is Movie 43 called "Movie 43?" Who knows, who
cares?
<|_=00=_|>
I have to be honest- I walked into this movie with pretty low
expectations to begin with. It is only on a rare occasion anymore that
I actually buy a ticket for a movie with any hope that it might
actually provide entertainment, which is a shame. This movie, however,
just lowered the bar- by a LOT. Hands down one of the worst movies that
I've ever seen- and that's saying something. It is just a gaggle of
actors working on an acid-trip of a script. Every bit of comedy is
based on shock value, which wears thin on your patience very early on.
It's gross, lewd, and utterly lacking of any wit or connection with the
audience. I cannot, in good conscience, recommend this to anyone- as I
nearly went up to the box office and demanded a refund. It isn't even
that I'm a prude or hate gross-out humor, I'm 18 for crying out loud- I
just have the ability to recognize when someone put actual effort and
thought into making a movie funny and when Hollywood is laughing AT US,
instead of vice versa. Miss this one. 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written a review before, but I feel that writing one is
the best way to clean my mind of the crappy film I have witnessed. This
movie was extremely awful. The humor attempts to be "offending", but it
instead sounds like something an 8th grader finds humorous. In fact,
even an 8th grader would tire of the pathetic nonsense that is Movie
43.

The plot centers around two teenagers that make up an outrageous
picture. However, I've heard it's different for other parts of the
world. I'm currently in the UK, so the kids wraparound is what I saw.
Their little brother looks for it on the world wide web and ends up
finding lots of clips that we get the displeasure of seeing. There's
one called "The Catch" where Kate Winslet goes on a blind date with
Hugh Jackman. However, get this: Hugh Jackman has penises where penises
aren't supposed to be! Just hear the crickets sing. I can hear the
screenwriter just laughing and laughing as he adds more unfunny jokes
about poop and semen.

Also, the hilarious basketball sketch where they comment on the fact
that basketball players are mostly black! Wow! It's so funny! Naked
women and iPads! It's funny too!

In short, Movie 43 is a disjointed mess, full of lousy jokes, terrible
writing, and actors that no doubt deserve to be in something else. Now,
I'm going to rally up Best Actor/Actresses winners to be in my new
screenplay, "Boners of Fire". Just kidding, of course. I'm not THAT
evil.
<|_=00=_|>
After a misleading Trailer I gave this "Comedy" a chance. To be honest
this is the worst movie I have ever seen. You can only laugh about the
"jokes" if you still have the humor of a 14 year old who is just
reaching puberty. Seriously. Every joke is based on penis, pussy, flat
sex and even shitting on your partner. Even the allusions towards other
movies are so horribly done that there is no way to compare this level
with a Tarantino style.

If this is how the Hollywoods "Crème de la Crème" defines self-irony
they have lost all my respect.

In Short: A Vicarious Embarrassment
<|_=00=_|>
I was hoping that someone was finally going to cater to those of us
with depraved senses of humor, I loved the trailer and wanted to see
this so bad that I went to the 10:30 showing on Thursday the 24th. The
first skit was moderately funny, but the rest, well... if you've seen
the trailers then you've seen the funniest parts already. No point
paying $8+ to see this thing.

Fortunately for me, I work at a movie theater and didn't drop a dime on
it, making it that much easier to walk out on it. I had just seen the
Best of Rifftrax one showing earlier and I laughed more at it than I
did Movie 43. SNL is funnier and I hate SNL. When I got home I had to
put on something really funny to cleanse my palette of this Cleveland
steamer.

I love the kind of humor contained in the trailer so I'm not one of
those people putting this movie down because it's extremely lowbrow. If
Haunted House is still showing and you have to choose between this and
it, choose Haunted House, this movie isn't worth what Anna Farris wants
her fiancé to do.

The movie should be considered a spoiler for the trailer instead of
vice versa.
<|_=00=_|>
The worst movie I have ever seen in my life. 

Truly disgusting on all levels. Makes you wonder what kind of world
this is that we live in. 

There was a line at the customer service desk - everyone asking for
their money back.

I was thinking that a support group might be necessary for those
subjected to the disgraceful chain of events that took place in this
horrid movie.

You'd be better off staying at home watching a blank screen than to
watch a single minute of this waste of a film.

P.S. I have never written a review. We were so disturbed we went to a
local bar and got drunk!
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the movie I just can't help but wonder why all those movie
stars agreed doing this? Sitting through the entire movie made me feel
very proud, afterward i felt really stupid.

The main plot was terrible. I'm not going to explain anything because I
don't want people spending their money on this and frankly I couldn't
pay attention anymore. The funny jokes you already saw in the preview
and since you see them coming a mile away and the movie is an enormous
buzz kill you won't even laugh. If you do decide to go to Movie 43,
prepare to sit back, yawn, roll your eyes and if you're lucky you have
to go to the bathroom twice. I encourage you to get drunk.

A special mention goes to Gerard Butler, who as a leprechaun does the
best work of his career in a segment so stupid it makes you want to
kick every leprechaun you will never see.

This was by far the worst movie I've seen in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
don't go see this movie....EVER!!!!! if you like movies that waste your
money and you possibly want to ruin your first date with scenes that
will make you and your "companion" uncomfortable, then please watch
this movie. I can only assume this movie was made for people who enjoy
poo, balls, and cats jerking off to pictures of their owners. now it
may seem funny at first but believe me when i say this movie sucked.
Now with that said i laughed harder walking out making fun of the movie
then i did for the entire one hour and thirty minutes of painfully
awkward moments. other then that though it did had a really good cast,
even though it seemed like this might of been a movie for them to just
let off some steam and not be so serious. DON'T GO SEE THIS
MOVIE.....PLEASE.
<|_=00=_|>
Omg, I'm very open person but for the first time I went out of a movie
after 30minutes. Feeling sick. We didn't know what to do with
ourselves. Went to a shop to buy anything and everything to reset our
brains. :) I just made an account here, only to express that it is
simply not fair! I feel cheated. How people can lie so much in the
description of the movie. I can't believe those actors took part in it.
What a shame. Why? Why! This is only for people who laughs at
obscenities and profanity. And defecation. But if you surprisingly
don't, it's not funny at all. I was waiting for any story behind it
but.. no. There was nothing there.

Wait for a DVD or sth if all those negative reviews made you
interested. Really don't pay for the cinema ticket. Really.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, just wow. I'm astonished. I've seen over a thousand movies in my
life, and out of all of them, this is the worst. Its worse than The
Garbage Pail Kids Movie, After Last Season, and Ren Seeks Help. This is
the worst, most pointless, hollow, and lazy excuse for a theatrical
feature I've ever seen. There is no vision or creativity here, its
literally just a bunch of unrelated 5-minute skits. I could at least
give this movie some credit if the skits were funny at all, but they're
not. They're all disgusting and repulsive. As I sat through the first
skit, I was like "well that sucked, maybe the next one will be better".
After the next four, I was like "well maybe one of them will make me
laugh". I was wrong. The rest was just a vapid, soulless, agonizing
experience. I didn't laugh, chuckle, or even involuntarily smile during
this whole movie. The whole product just feels cynically slapped
together with no respect for its audience and for the sole purpose of
making money. Many of the celebrities they got were either bribed or
guilt tripped into being in their skits. This isn't even a real movie;
its like a bunch of unfunny YouTube videos mashed together. Think of
the 15 worst Smosh videos you've seen, and watch them back to back.
That's basically this movie but with more depraved sexually graphic
content and random celebrities. You'd have a lot more fun watching
YouTube videos for 90 minutes than watching Movie 43. Normally I have
no problem with gross and inappropriate content, but only if there's a
point. This movie represents everything wrong with Hollywood. Slimy
film business practices typically only happen occasionally behind the
scenes of most mainstream films. Every decision involved in the making
of this movie started with the thought "We could exploit the Hollywood
system by...". Movies like this are the reason IMDb should allow a 0-
star rating. This movie is nothing. This movie deserves nothing.
Therefore, I shall give it nothing.

0/10
