
Greetings again from the darkness. How about a little effort, folks?
Writer/Director James L Brooks and Jack Nicholson have teamed up for
three far superior films prior to this. Terms of Endearment, Broadcast
News, and As Good As it Gets are all insightful dramadies that bring
real life into relationships. This is billed as a Rom-Com, but the
romance is distant and lame, and the comedy is all but non-existent.

The very talented Paul Rudd plays George, son of Charles (Nicholson)
who is the target of a federal investigation after his father sets him
up by falsifying corporate financial documents. The problem is George
is a really nice, honest guy and Charles is a lying scumbag who would
throw his son to the federal wolves.

In a seemingly unrelated story, Reece Witherspoon plays Lisa, a very
talented softball player with an incredible track record and evidently
serious skills. She gets cut from the Olympic team because of her
advancing age (she will be 31 at the next Olympics). Lisa is dating
Matty, played by Owen Wilson. Matty is a $14 million per year major
league baseball player, who is also a player off the field.

Everyone in this story is so very nice, but screwed up in their own
way. That's actually a hopeful start. So one thing leads to another and
George falls for Lisa. Lisa moves in with Matty, who lives in the
Charles' building. Lisa then moves out. George is always there for Lisa
while her life is in shambles. George's life is in shambles too, but
all he cares about is Lisa. Any guess how this ends up? Of course you
know. This script is not built for surprises. Or romance. Or comedy.

The bulk of the comedy comes from a very pregnant Kathryn Hahn as Anne,
whose life is also a bit of a mess. She is an unmarried, pregnant
assistant to George, who worries about him, her and everything ... but
she has such a big heart that she bakes and labels multiple dinners for
George.

Anyway ... the best part of the film is that we never get subjected to
Owen Wilson throwing a pitch or Reese Witherspoon actually playing
softball. There is so much talent associated with this film, but it
definitely proves the point that the heart of a film is not in the
direction or the acting, but in the script. For a similar story line,
but far superior film, go re-watch When Harry Met Sally for the
eighteenth time. It has comedy and romance and a worthy script.
<|_=00=_|>
From looking at the casting, you would immediately think this to be a
romantic comedy, and I guess that's where it starts going wrong.. from
people going in to see this movie, expecting a chick flick and being
disappointed.

I believe the reason for the poor reviews of this movie are due to the
fact that is has been advertised and delivered as a romantic comedy.

True, it is fit for the romance genre, comedy.. not so much. But as far
as romantic drama's go, this is an excellent picture for the modernized
crowd.

That's because it is so much more. It is ideal for viewing of a well-
intended inspiring somewhat-romantic movie. Humour is few and far
between for a comedy-seeking crowd, however for those who connect to
the characters, the humour is purely intended for those devised from
caring for the characters.

Reese Witherspoon has perfected the role of Lisa, this is the movie
that I would beg girlfriends to watch, due to her total delivery of the
character throughout the entire picture, which is something most girls
and women can relate to (whether they've reached that hurdle yet or
not). 

Which is where I feel the script originated from, life lessons. The
script of the movie is all relatable in one aspect or other. It's
moving to view a capture of these 'life lessons' within a movie, and I
think if a movie can deliver that, then they have succeeded in making a
good movie. Although the writing could have been sharper, better
presented and wittier, it was decent enough for one to be indulged in
the plot.

Paul Rudd, I thought, was a fantastic casting. Again, writing could of
been better for a few of his lines where comedy was intended and some
of his reactions.. but still I found him to be excellent and I enjoyed
watching him.

Nice to see Jack Nicholson again, (huge fan of One flew over the
cuckoo's nest!), his part was suitable if not a little long winded. I
felt (again) wittier writing would have improved his character and
performance hugely, however he delivered his part.

And Luke Wilson.. okay so we all know what kind of movie's he's known
for now, and fair enough, he was a good casting for the part. My only
itch is I'd like to see him doing more roles similar to Hutch, ala
Starsky&, dry detective types. 

Moving on, as said above, this is not a movie to make you lol or rofl,
merely a movie to be enjoyed from watching these character's journey of
self-revelation's throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best performance yet by the wonderful Paul Rudd, a return
to form for Owen Wilson, and the first truly sexy turn by Reese
Witherspoon, always an excellent actress but never this yummy
heretofore. James L. Brooks has a skilled and expert hand with pace and
performance, and the movie is funny and unusually thoughtful--too
thoughtful, perhaps, for some of the ADD-afflicted people who post
here. This is a worthy addition to the very short list of great
romantic comedies, and one which will grow in reputation through the
years. Jack Nicholson is committed and inventive--perhaps a bit over
the top, but that's the only even slightly off-key note in the whole
film. Bravo to all involved!
<|_=00=_|>
I am very critical of slow pacing but did not find this comedy the
least bit slow. As one who works on Wall Street, I can tell you that
people like George actually do exist (promoted to a position of
authority due to nepotism, but set up for a fall because he actually
has ethics). I thought the way they set things up with the phone call
by Reba, the pragmatic selfishness of his current girlfriend, and the
non-date date worked well together and was plausible enough within
context to be enjoyable. I also thought the relationship between
jock-player (Wilson) and over-the-hill jock Witherspoon was sweet and
funny in its own way.

However, Kathryn Hahn steals every scene she's in as Rudd's personal
assistant who hates what's going on and is also a single mom-to-be. And
her scene in the hospital alone was worth the price of admission to me.
The ending was also well handled. This is the best Paul Rudd
performance I have seen since The Shape of Things after many bad ones
in-between. Witherspoon was fine even though she didn't seem to have
sizzling chemistry with Rudd - she was wonderful with Wilson. The cameo
by Shalhoub as a psychiatrist was hilarious. And Mark-Linn Baker was
appropriately cowering as the corporate lawyer. Nicholson was fine - he
felt the part even though he could have played it in his sleep. Not one
of his best, but more than adequate.

So, is this an original and ground-breaking film? No. Is it a highly
enjoyable romantic comedy with good supporting performances and funny
scenes? Yes!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so call me crazy, but I would NEVER give a movie a one star
rating unless it was absolutely miserable. Like if I would rather leave
the theater and the $10 I spent on it than watch it. How Do You Know
was not a one star movie. The only problems I saw with it were that it
was a little long. I thought they could have cut some scenes out and
not only gotten away with it, but made it a more enjoyable experience.
Also, with actors like Paul Rudd and Owen Wilson (plus how it was
advertised as a comedy) I was expecting to do a lot more laughing in
the movie than I really did. Don't get me wrong, it was funny, but not
as much as you'd expect. I think if you go to this movie knowing it's
more of a romantic comedy than a typical Owen Wilson/Paul Rudd style
comedy then you'll be pleasantly surprised. I really enjoyed the movie,
I thought it was very clever and surprisingly uplifting and I thought
it was definitely worth the money.
<|_=00=_|>
To prevent claims that I am negatively reviewing this film because I
don't like this type of film, I start by saying I enjoyed many of James
L. Brooks' earlier works such as As Good As It Gets or Terms of
Endearment. Mr. Brooks has demonstrated his ability to put together a
diverse and talented cast and bring them together focusing on the
things that make all of us different. The writing brings everything
together where the work stands on it's own and is as strong as the sum
of it's parts. So what happened here??? This film is a painful and mind
numbing experience in boredom, bad writing, bad chemistry and pure
stupidity! I have watched many a film and rarely have trouble sitting
through them. I found myself laughing and almost screaming at this
movie to go somewhere! Is it deserving of one star? Maybe I am being
too harsh? No, how can you take a movie with Reese Witherspoon, Paul
Rudd, Owen Wilson and Jack Nicholson and basically throw away their
talent by wrapping it around insanely boring and random dialog? The
first few times the characters think they are saying something witty
that makes no sense to where the movie isn't going, it is irritating.
To sit through two hours of this torture is enough to drive one to
drink! This movie had no exposure for a reason, avoid it! I am sure you
have something better to do for two hours even if it is to watch
episodes of I Love Lucy you have already seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting to be very disappointed with this film because I'd
heard that most people disliked it. I really really liked it. I think
that audiences these days have to have a joke every 30 seconds to be
entertained. Maybe audiences feel short changed if there isn't a huge
obvious wrap up off the plot at the end of the film. I liked that
everything wasn't black and white in the film. There are many
unanswered questions. The characters' intentions and feelings weren't
absolutely clear. That's what I loved about it. 

It's sad that so many people disliked this film, but I think it's very
courageous of James l. Brooks to write a film that pleased him and not
have to pace it like most other "successful" Hollywood crap movies.
This film makes you think unlike many other huge hit comedies these
days.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a total waste of money. With such great actors I expected much
more. I was so disappointed. There was not much of a plot. There was no
spark between the actors. The best part of the movie was the pregnant
secretary, who, all in all, had a very minor role. Her role is the only
reason I gave this move a 2 rather than a 1. I love Jack Nicholson. I
have loved every movie I have ever seen him in. I did not like him in
this movie. I am amazed that he agreed to take on such a weak
character. Reese Witherspoon is as cute as ever and Paul Rudd is is
still the wholesome boy next door but even with these three actors, the
movie was a total waste of time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
If somebody asks me what "How do you know" is about, my answer would
have to be "I don't know". Probably the writer/director doesn't know
either. There's a girl (Reese Witherspoon), who's having a really bad
day and is dating a completely idiotic guy (Owen Wilson), who's
supposed to be funny I guess but totally isn't, and then there's a guy
(Paul Rudd) and he's having a dreadful day as well and somehow the two
meet and start pouring their souls out to each other, but in a
boring-nothing-makes-sense kind of way. All Witherspoon was doing was
looking hot in shorts. And it's a shame 'cause she can act. As for
Rudd... I find him hilarious, a really talented comedian. But he can
only be hilarious when somebody writes him a descent role. Like in
"Friends" or in "Knocked Up". The only kind-of-okay moment he had in
this movie was when he banged his head on a coffee table. He can do
better. Oh, and did I mention Jack Nicholson was in this too? How is it
possible, with a cast like this, to create an utter piece of junk? If
you want to know you can watch this, but I really wouldn't recommend
that you do...
<|_=00=_|>
Now I know what Alex DeLarge felt at the hands of the British Penal
System and its experimental aversion therapy...

The dialogues are out of key, the characters don't connect, the music
is just a punch in the stomach... Any expectation built for this movie
is rapidly consumed by the expectation that it ends soon... but it
doesn't... Two whole hours of movie which seem more like five and will
let any who tries to watch it as tired as Coach Mo after running the
marathon...

If you're hopping for something in the lines of "As Good As It Get"
with smart dialogues like "The Simpsons" then you're in for a
disappointment.
