
My expectations weren't very high for this film... and quite rightly
so. John Jarratt (from Wolf Creek, Django Unchained... and Play
School... you heard me) writes and stars in this little independent
Aussie flick about a man who immediately after being released from
prison (or rehab... it's never really made clear) heads straight home
to visit his wife and son so he can demand either his half of their
house or $5,000,000 (yet again it's not really made clear... and the
house is probably worth about $500,000 at the most). The wife and son
head to the holiday home of a family friend where they believe they'll
be safe and can hideout until the coast is clear. Halfway to their
destination they find themselves stranded at a roadhouse in the middle
of nowhere due to the flooding caused by a storm that has conveniently
just begun. Even more conveniently, they left their address book open
and the psycho patriarch figures out where they're heading just in time
to find himself stranded halfway there at the very same roadhouse. On
the surface it would seem that he wants half the house or $5,000,000,
otherwise he'll kill his wife and his son AND anyone who gets in his
way, including the other poor unfortunates who are also stranded at the
roadhouse. There is a mild twist at the end, but you'll still be left
thinking, "Really? Is that it?". The acting is of the same calibre
you'd expect from an episode of Neighbours or Home and Away on a bad
day. Judging by the cover you'd be expecting a brutal horror movie and
you'll wind up sitting through a lame thriller with a very low kill
count and very little tension. Craig McLachlan plays the hero of the
piece... and with all due respect Craig... enough said!

I apologise for the fact that my carefully worded and relatively well
thought out review is essentially just one massive paragraph :D

Check out my IMDb List for some better suggestions. "HORROR/THRILLER:
Obscure, Overlooked & Underrated" http://www.imdb.com/list/8QFZ78e4Ar8/
:)
<|_=00=_|>
A flash flood in Australia cuts off a small handful of people in a
remote roadside diner . A man called Phil enters and threatens his
estranged wife Sue and the stranded drivers realise they're in a
desperate struggle for their lives 

This is a low budget Aussie thriller with a very small cast and a
limited number of sets . This isn't enough to condemn the film as a
failure of course but if you're making something along the lines of THE
OLD DARK HOUSE then you'll need to make sure you're bringing something
new and appetizing to the table and this is where SAVAGES CROSSING
fails to a very large extent . What happens for most of the time Phil
played by John Jarrat swaggers around over acting to high heaven
telling people if they don't tell him where his wife is he's going to
have to kill them 

Another minor annoyance is Craig McLachan as the hero of sorts Mory .
McLachan was once a household name in Britain and Australia twenty
years ago due to his starring roles in NEIGHBOURS and HOME AWAY while
like so many Aussie soap opera stars had a side line as a pop singer
and he does the incidental music here on a soundtrack that is rather
intrusive . He doesn't make much of a hunky hero either in a film that
feels something of a wash out which is appropriate since it revolves
around a flood
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I love John Jarratt. His appearance as the bad guy
in the WOLF CREEK films has given him a cult following, and this infamy
led him to make SAVAGES CROSSING, a low budget thriller written by
Jarratt and his wife, starring Jarratt and his real-life son, Charlie.
It's a bit of a family affair, but sadly one that turns out to be
distinctly average and rather a let down compared to the intensity of
the WOLF CREEK movies.

The light plotting sees a group of characters assembled and stranded at
a remote diner during a stormy night where the torrential rain has made
the only road going in or out impassable. The characters are largely
uninteresting here, but Jarratt holds the attention as an ex-con who
has unfinished business with his estranged wife and kid. What follows,
though, despite best efforts, is strictly routine, and there's little
of the suspense you'd expect from the premise; no edge of the seat
stuff. It's also surprisingly tame.

It goes without saying that Jarratt is hugely entertaining, as is ever
the case, and he's well matched by NEIGHBOURS star Craig McLachlan who
is a welcome presence as the square-jawed heroic type. But the story
seems to go on forever, repetitively going back and forth while
depending on the characters making dumb decisions to spin things out a
bit further. It tests the patience instead of testing the viewer's
nerves.
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously Jarratt is wanting to cash in on Wolf Creek, bringing another
psycho loser to the screen, and relishing in it. He is a good actor,
and the acting here isn't the problem. It's the movie, written by the
Jarratt's who should have never been allowed to put pen to paper. I
couldn't believe how horribly bad this movie was. I know I wasn't in
for Oscar viewing, and I expected B grade fare, but in two words it's
incredibly or pathetically bad. Jarratt's wife, Angela Punch Macgregor,
at first unrecognizable, in a splendid performance, and real life
Jarratt son, (yes another Jarratt contribute) flee from their house in
the wake of an approaching storm/flood. This take refuge in this gas,
station run by nonetheless Craig Mclachlan, another one of the top
performers in this. Of course the acting prize does go to Chris
Haywood, as a shady guy, who shows up at the gas station, to take out
the deranged Jarratt who's such fun to watch, in a film so bad, you
appreciate it. There's no thriller elements in this. The characters
motivations are obvious. Jessica Napier is nice scenery as the
gas/convenience store hand who shares a strong kiss with her savior
Maclachlan, amidst the raging waters of the wild Wonga river, as
falling prey earlier to the maniacal Jarrett. And looking much older is
Bec Smart, and lesbian friend, may'be, the terrific Horler. Actors can
only do their best when faced with incredibly bad scripts as this. One
line had me laughing, as to Maclachlan, correcting Jarratt's first and
last character's name, with one of insult, as trying to cross an
untamed ford in his fancy car, then having to be towed by Maclachlan's
truck. The film even ends on a stupid line, and Macgregor and son, who
are kept hidden in a bed shed at the good will of Maclachlan, looks
very much like the one used in Wolf Creek, where Mick Taylor had his
fun. Just out of curiosity, just watch this to see how bad a movie can
be, but there's a few worse floating around, not a lot, about a few.
Just don't blame the actors.
<|_=00=_|>
Savages Crossing is a micro-budget horror flick written by John Jarratt
and his son and it really is just an exercise in vanity. Jarratt had a
fleeting glimpse at resurrected stardom with Wolf Creek and so he's
essentially written himself another psychopathic lunatic role in a
similar vein. But hey, the movie works. The first 10 minutes are woeful
(and unnecessary) as its shot in day light and the lack of budget
shows, but once night falls and the rain pours, Savages Crossing has a
great atmosphere and performances. Craig McLachlan is actually really
good as the 'take- no-sh!t' country farmer and in my opinion he steals
the show. Its not great by any means, but certainly worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
A motley group of strangers are all forced to seek refuge at a remote
outback roadhouse due to severe flooding caused by a fierce torrential
downpour. However, one of these people proves to be every bit as
dangerous as the savage storm that's raging outside. Director Kevin
James Dobson, working from a compact script by John and Cody Jarratt,
keeps the absorbing story moving along at a brisk pace, creates and
sustains a substantial amount of claustrophobic suspense, maintains a
hard gritty tone throughout, and makes good use of the isolated outback
setting. Moreover, Dobson's taut and economical style doesn't waste a
single minute and thus ensures that there's never a dull moment. The
sound acting by the capable cast keeps the movie humming: John Jarratt
as high-strung ex-con Phil, Craig McLachlan as the rugged Mory
(McLachlan also composed the effectively shuddery score and contributed
a few songs to the soundtrack), Jessica Napier as perky barmaid Kate,
Rebecca Smart as the sassy Mickey, Chris Haywood as brutish cop Chris,
Sacha Horler as the brash Shae, Angela Punch-McGregor as the nervous
Sue, and Charlie Jarratt as Sue's loyal and protective son Damien.
Geoff Cox's agile cinematography takes neat advantage of a constantly
mobile prowling camera. A tidy little thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
The Savage thing here is this movie it's not a horror 3.3 I think is
overly Generous it's worse than any Michael Bay film I've Ever watched
you may think "Oh come on it can't be that bad" let me count these ways

The Actors are horrendous it may be the scriptwriter or the poor way
this movie was made but I wanted to see them get killed we have a
horrendous overacting mother and an underacting teenager 2 girls who
must've been hired off the street because this is the only reason as to
why anyone would be in here

When I wanted to see them get killed I couldn't because the villain is
afraid to use a gun let me read that to you again THE VILLAIN IS AFRAID
TO USE A GUN The Dialogue only deserves a few words because I have seen
better dialogue come out of 6-year-olds you get such dialogue as this 

"don't touch her or else"

"Or else What?"

"I'll Swear to god"

yeah and that's them doing their best but it can't be for 6-year-olds
because they overuse the F-word especially a cop

The Villain has no motives and introduced as to the mother knowing he's
out via phone call and the 2 words "he's out" and shots between the
mother and son and the villain walking in slow motion through a city
street seriously IN SLOW MOTION.

The Characters: The mother is a private person for no reason with her
wimpy son and the 2 girls who appear in the so-called wrong place one
does nothing but cries throughout the whole movie from when the villain
appears to the end of the movie the other calms her down I wondered
when the scared-to-use-a-gun villain kills them I was angry at the end
when he didn't there are the 2 people who own the bar the woman just
serves them and tries to come at the villain with a baseball bat and
doesn't the man who I mistook for Crocodile Dundee (and I'm Australian)
and they do nothing

The sound is so bad every time it rains it sounds like somebody is
using a bug zapper to make the noise collide with the ground
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this film and no I don't have any connection whatsoever to it
OK? I've lived in the tropics and been through cyclones and tropical
storms and this movie really captured the feel of that. It really felt
like an isolated roadhouse which people in the city cannot fathom but
they do exist in the Territory and up on Cape York.

It had a good soundtrack and score and a great performance from the
cast in general.

As far as John Jarratts character goes you have to remember that he was
drunk virtually the whole time and was a nut case so some of the things
he said and did were ridiculous of course.

All in all nowhere near as bad as people say it is!
