
What was Kevin Smith thinking? An audacious critic of society and film
in particular, and no stranger to poking fun at himself I can foresee,
a few years down the road, a sheepish Smith laughing off his
involvement in this torturously unfunny genre film. What he may lack in
compelling direction skills, he more than makes up for in witty
screenplays with equal balance raunch and insight having crafted
classics such as Clerks and Chasing Amy. With Smith absent from the
writing role there is absolutely no reason to seek out Cop Out.

Calling Cop Out a 'buddy cop' film would be a gross misnomer. To
qualify as such, we would actually have to witness some aspect of
'buddy'. Bruce Willis and Tracy Morgan, who co-star, have absolutely no
chemistry and I did not believe for a single second they would ever be
friends, or even be able to tolerate one another for that matter.
Furthermore, I did not believe for a single second that Tracy Morgan
could ever be a cop. I am willing to suspend some disbelief in movies
like this but c'mon. This role would have been kin to casting Betty
White in Taken. Morgan is a very funny man in supporting situations,
with 30 Rock being an apt example (Although that show benefits from
Tina Fey's screenplay. If she had penned Cop Out this review could be
reading far differently) but as with actors like Chris Rock and Chris
Tucker, a little goes a long way.

Then we have Bruce Willis who just seems eager to leave. I have never
seen Willis mope his way through a movie like this; all of his roguish
charms seemed drained by the horrific writing and familiarity of the
gags. To make matter worse yet, we get a horrendous performance from
Sean William Scott, also a very funny man, whose character is as
annoying as it is perfunctory. Many have been calling this a familiar
rehash of buddy cop flicks of years past; I wish. I would have begged
for a Beverly Hills Cop XXII over this near abomination.

The plot, in case you care, centers on Willis' and Morgan's Jimmie and
Paul, two NYPD detectives who stumble into a drug ring after Jimmie's
prized baseball card is stolen in front of his eyes during a robbery.
He needs the card to pay for his daughters wedding and as he searches
with the help of the criminal by which it was stolen (William Scott)
uncovers more than he had in mind.

In summation, this film fails as a comedy, fails as an action film,
fails as a breakout role for Tracy Morgan, fails as a return to the cop
genre for Willis and mars Kevin's Smith's mostly unblemished track
record. Originally titled A Couple of Dicks, the title was then changed
to what you now see on the marquee. I can only assume this was a
backhanded reference to the state of Smith's creative integrity.

Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
I guess you could call a few scenes mildly amusing but this movie never
delivered any laugh out loud moments. It certainly never rings true as
an action film. I don't know if they were mocking or paying homage to
movies like Lethal Weapon and that's precisely the problem. Bruce
Willis was solid but Tracy Morgan was severely out of place. While I
find Morgan funny, his act wears thin fast. Also, Kevin Smith
experimenting with the hand-held shaky camera craze has to be
considered a colossal failure. Maybe it wasn't even intentional but I
had to look away from the screen on some simple shots because of the
motion. What was he thinking? Doesn't anyone screen the final cut and
let him know what was wrong?
<|_=00=_|>
Movies in this genre usually do the trick for me. They are not meant to
make a huge impact on you, just give you some good laughs for an hour
and a half or so. This movie however, fails in every way possible. The
plot is bad and not even remotely interesting. A valuable baseball card
that Jimmy Monroe (Bruce Willis) is selling to pay for his daughters
wedding, gets stolen from him, and he and his partner, Paul Hodges
(Tracy Morgan), gets themselves into a big mess trying to get it back.

I don't know what Bruce Willis was thinking when he agreed to do this
movie, and watching him on screen makes me believe he had some regrets.
He actually looks bored during most scenes, and there is no chemistry
between him and Tracy. As if it's not bad enough that Bruce puts on the
worst performance I have ever seen from him, Tracy Morgan managed to
make me hate his character so much, that I actually hoped he was hurt
in the scene where a kid kicks him in the nuts.

To top things off, there are two other "buddy-cops" in the movie,
played by Adam Brody and Kevin Pollak. They add nothing to the story
except for 20 minutes extra run time.

Looking for a nice buddy-cop movie to get some quick laughs? Then keep
looking. Cop Out is nothing more than 1 hour and 47 minutes of your
life that you can never get back.
<|_=00=_|>
This is supposed to be a comedy, allegedly. I only know that because
it's advertised as a comedy, though - you certainly wouldn't know
because of any funny moments in the film. It's a buddy cop movie, where
Bruce Willis looks as though he's overdosed on Valium and Tracy Morgan
makes up for that by doing what I can only describe as a minstrel show
routine.

I don't want to get on my high horse about what's supposed to be a
light-hearted action cop movie, but then again I didn't want to get
angry after a light-hearted action cop movie, either. Angry about
Morgan's performance, a gibbering, cavorting, screeching act that
wouldn't have been out of place in the days of Stepin Fetchit. Angry
about the fact that no one involved seemed to give a toss - in fact
they might as well have spent the whole movie just standing there,
holding up two middle fingers at the audience.

But I'm angry most of all at Kevin Smith, the director of this piece of
utter garbage. He used to be talented. He used to make great movies
like Clerks, Dogma, even Mallrats. Yeah, that's right, I'm the guy who
liked Mallrats. These days he churns out lazy rubbish and then goes on
Twitter and whines at anyone who dares to criticise it. He's thrown his
talent away, and he's so wrapped up in the bubble of his own
self-importance that he doesn't seem to realise it. By making a film
like this, and clearly not caring at all about how it turned out, he's
shown his complete contempt for movie-goers, fans and the smoking
wreckage of his own career. Well done, Kevin. Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this with my 15-year-old son, and we both laughed a lot, as did
the nearly-full mid- afternoon theater audience. I have rarely seen
such a stark disconnect between some scathing reviews and actual
audience reaction.

Bruce Willis and Tracy Morgan have excellent chemistry. Morgan is
consistently funny, and Willis goofs nicely on his own image. Sean
William Scott is a hoot! You have to see his one- of-a-kind performance
to believe it, and don't miss the credits!

Yes, it's no masterpiece, plot, action, or comedy-wise. The primacy of
Beverly Hills Cop and Die Hard in the action-comedy pantheon is
undisturbed. No new creative ground is broken here. Kevin Pollack,
unfortunately, is given little to do. Adam Brody was 10 times better in
Mr. & Mrs. Smith, in a far smaller role. But on the whole, the movie
does what one asks of an action-comedy: it makes you laugh many times,
and it does not bore you.

Ana de la Reguera is also an unexpected treat. Bonita y deliciosa.

Me and my son give it two thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
Cop Out has a few laughs, but otherwise it's a surprisingly bland
experience. It suffers from a generic storyline, questionable
performances and the simple fact that almost none of the intended
sources of humour achieve the desired effect.

Bruce Willis (an old timer) and Tracy Morgan (a new timer) are an odd
couple indeed, but they had potential. The problem is that their levels
of commitment to the film are polarized. Willis seems lazy and
uninterested never putting much effort into it. Morgan on the other
hand, tries way too hard. His larger than life style of crudeness is
more clumsy than funny, and he upstages pretty much everyone else in
the cast.

After about ten minutes, we have a pretty good idea of how this film is
gonna play out, but we go with it in the hope that the trip is worth
while. Unfortunately there are more silly contrivances and poorly
written lines than there are laughs. The only time when Cop Out is
funny (and remotely clever) is over a Good Cop Bad Cop routine that
Willis and Morgan have. There are enough action movie jokes to make it
clear to the audience that at least Kevin Smith has the self-awareness
necessary for satire. But from what I saw, Cop Out isn't really a
satire at all. It no better or worse than any other failed cop/comedy.
I'm not sure if it's laziness or lack of thinking behind it, but Cop
Out hasn't got the goods
<|_=00=_|>
I went into Cop-Out expecting the hatred to be overblown. I'm usually a
fan of these cliché action movies as long as they're entertaining, even
on a mindless level. But as it turns out, the hatred was not only
positively correct, but even though it gets 20% on Rotten Tomatoes, I
consider it overrated. It's that bad.

The characters were annoying and uninteresting, and the performances
are just terrible. Bruce Willis is dull and uninteresting, Tracy Morgan
is like a mumbling Bill Cosby wannabe, Sean William Scott is like a mix
between Ashton Kutcher and Jar Jar Binks, and the rest of the
characters were just..... there. The back stories behind all these
characters are cliché and uninteresting, which just makes the film even
more boring.

The humor in the film is just a bunch of obnoxious ramblings and pop
culture references, with some unfunny sexual humor thrown in. There's
actually one scene where Tracy Morgan is purposely using a bunch of
lines taken from movies for no reason whatsoever. They tried to be
clever by adding in the famous "YIPPE KAY YAY, MOTHER F*****!!" line,
and have Bruce Willis say "I haven't seen that movie!", but it's poorly
executed and just comes off as dry.

The cinematography in the film is just lazy. The camera is always
moving in circles, there's one or two moments where the directed object
is out of focus, and it's especially shaky in the action scenes. It
makes the film seem like an incredibly cheap cash-in, which I suppose
it is.

Do yourself a favor; imagine yellow "Do Not Cross" banners running
around this film.
<|_=00=_|>
considering the talent involved this feels like they didn't bother to
read the script before they started shooting. this is a really, really
bad script. the leads are mildly entertaining but they would have been
more fun just standing in front of a curtain talking for 2 hrs.

i guess this was one for the paid check for smith.. but the Morgan and
Willis? take the blood away and you have a story so dumbed down it
would be suitable for a special sponge bob crime episode.

how scripts like these get made into movies is beyond me. can someone
explain? seriously.

the soundtrack is keyboard retro 80s and just reminds viewers that this
could be a lame attempt to say hello to much better and funnier movies
like Beverly hills cop and the like.

I just read that smith also edited this. Well I guess you could not
save this mess in the post production.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you want to know the reason why some people did not like this movie?
I'll tell you why. They take this movie too seriously. I mean yeah
there are some problems in the movie but then again, nothings perfect.I
watched this film and within 10 mins into the movie, I was laughing my
butt off. I believe that more people will enjoy this film if they just
relax and unwind while watching this film, and to not take it so
seriously.

The story is about two cops Jimmy Monroe(Bruce Willis) and Paul
Hodgens(Tracy Morgan). Jimmy has to pay for his daughters wedding in
order to not look like a fool in front of his ex-wife's new husband
Roy(Jason Lee) who is much richer than him. So he decides to sell off
his prized possession, a 1952 Andy Pafko card. However, Jimmy was
robbed halfway through the transaction by Dave(Sean William Scott). Now
he and his partner have to go across the city causing mayhem an
violence just to find his card.

Now I bought this film on DVD so there are special features . Just
deleted scenes. This film may have a clichéd storyline but it has great
lines to make you laugh out loud and Kevin smith does a pretty good job
at directing the duo. Although not his best, surely one of the
funniest. Bruce and Tracy just have excellent chemistry and that is
also what makes this movie shine.
<|_=00=_|>
'Cop Out' is perhaps Kevin Smith's most 'un-Kevin Smith' film. It lacks
the brand of humour his previous works had. Even though he has made his
share of bad films next to a few great ones, the jokes usually work. In
'Cop Out' most of them fall flat. The story (if there is one) has no
direction at all. The characters are annoying. Supporting characters
appear and disappear randomly. In Smith's defence, he wasn't part of
the writing department (though he was involved in the editing) and the
script is just one big mess. I still wonder why he decided to make
this? Even the actors seem to lack interest. Tracy Morgan is completely
miscast and he has no chemistry with any of his costars. Actually none
of the actors have chemistry. Bruce Willis too is unimpressive. Perhaps
he's finally tired of playing the same kind of role over and over
again. The title is somewhat right for the movie although I don't think
it ever had potential.
