
This film reminded me of the 90's wave of erotic thrillers. It's got
all the elements, including a healthy dose of softcore sex scenes which
surprised me because Amanda Seyfried has such an endearing, innocent
look about her. But she's such a good actress though that this doesn't
prevent her from convincingly playing the role of seductive call girl
Chloe. Julianne Moore plays Catherine, a gynecologist who suspects her
flirtatious husband (Liam Neeson) is having an affair with one of his
students. While at work Catherine observes Chloe entering and exiting
hotels with several men so she can make a pretty good guess at Chloe's
profession. Catherine decides to use Chloe as bait to see if her
husband would submit to the temptation of an affair with Chloe.

And even though that is the basic storyline, there is so much more that
is left unsaid; things Catherine thinks she knows but doesn't know
about her husband, things Chloe knows about Catherine that Catherine
herself doesn't even know; and in the middle of it all, the viewer who
finds out we didn't know much at all about it all. The audience is
pretty much kept in the dark as to what is really going on with Chloe
until one small scene that immediately switches the direction of the
movie. It's not one of those hokey melodramatic twists, but will
definitely have you playing back the entire movie in your mind because
it sheds everything in a new light. Chloe brags at the beginning of the
film, in a voice-over narration, that she has the gift of intuiting
what people want and need without it being said. She can be all things
to all people. And unfortunately for Julianne Moore's character, Chloe
is exactly right....just not in the way that you might initially think
she is.

What makes this movie good is that it has layers. Just as in real life,
people are inevitably much different than what they appear to be on the
surface. In a lesser film, the characters and plot would be
one-dimensional and by far less interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
When David (Liam Neeson) misses his flight home from New York and, as a
result, the surprise party his wife Catherine (Julianne Moore) has
planned for him, Catherine is forced to swallow her disappointment and
any suspicions and return to the waiting guests. Reading a text message
sent to David's phone the following morning from one of his female
students, Catherine's fear grows. More suspicious than ever that David
is having an affair, Catherine seeks out Chloe (Amanda Seyfried), an
escort, hiring her to test David's fidelity.

Chloe is a very solid thriller. Extremely engaging and incredibly
entertaining, this story is ultimately about human nature and
instincts. The film really grabs your attention and visually, it's
quite a feat. The minimalistic sets and the way it was shot give this
film a really modern and slick look. I feel like I should warn that
there's quite a bit of nudity and somewhat graphic scenes but nothing
outrageous or out of place.

Moore was absolutely terrific, she has proved her value already but
here she delivers possibly one of the best performances of her career.
Seyfried was quite a surprise. Her performance was subtle but very
efficient and she seems a very promising young actress. Liam Neeson was
not nearly as good as he usually is but it's understandable considering
his wife died during the shooting of the film.

As I said, Chloe is a very solid and well done film. Unfortunately it
has one major flaw, the predictably of the plot. I saw the twist coming
from a mile way and I think any avid movie-goer will too. Still, it was
a great watch, very entertaining and extremely well acted. Worth
seeing.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a doctor who suspects her husband to be cheating.
She hires a prostitute to test her suspicion, which spirals out of
control beyond anyone's imagination.

If there is a sub-genre called sexual thriller, "Chloe" would be the
prototype. The plot works very well, it's very engaging. The sexual
mystery and tension are captivating, and the copious nudity does not
even come across as over the top or contrived. Just as you thought you
guessed the whole plot, it twists in the most dramatic way. There is so
much suspense, excitement and mystery to the story. "Chloe" is a very
good film with a wow factor, that keeps me glued to the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
If anyone was suited for remaking the French film Nathalie, it was Atom
Egoyan, whose deeply twisted and occasionally perverse studies of
sexuality, expressed through an apparently cold directorial eye, go
hand in hand with a script that emphasized words over images (though
there is a bit more flesh in the English-language transition). Hence
the rather brilliant Chloe, whose prime accomplishment lies in its
being less showy and pretentious than the director's previous foray
into erotic secrets, the ambitious Where the Truth Lies.

Set in Egoyan's home town of Toronto, Chloe tells the story of the
eponymous call girl (Amanda Seyfried) who is hired by gynecologist
Catherine Stewart (Julianne Moore) when the latter starts to suspect
her husband (Liam Neeson) is having an affair. Chloe's job is to
casually approach him and see if he falls for her charm, thus
indicating his propensity for adultery. However, as the girl's reports
get more and more graphic, Catherine realizes she has put herself in an
awkward position, one that it will be difficult to get out of.

A fascinating hybrid between psychological drama and erotic thriller
(there's a vague hint of Fatal Attraction throughout the movie), Chloe
is a rarity due to its attempt to analyze sex and its consequences
without necessarily resorting to openly titillating imagery (a
characteristic Egoyan shares with another Canadian maestro, David
Cronenberg). The only downside of this approach is the same flaw that
was much more evident in Where the Truth Lies, namely a deliberately
slow pace that affects the thriller aspects but enhances the emotional
poignancy, something that comes off as a paradox given the seemingly
cold subject matter.

Furthermore, there is no coldness to be found in the carefully crafted
performances: Neeson and Moore play the troubled couple with
conviction, especially when things start getting more complicated
(Moore's suspicious wife is a tour de force turn that should have
received some award recognition), but the heart of the film lies, quite
predictably, in Seyfried's hands, and she rises to the challenge by
proving that she can do Big Love-style quality work on the big screen,
embodying a complex, intriguing character light years away from her
roles in Mamma Mia! and Mean Girls.

Overall, Chloe is a very good movie: sexy without being gratuitous,
psychological without getting pompous and, like its title character,
delightfully surprising.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw CHLOE last night. I love all of Atom Egoyan's films and this was no
exception. We were warned going in that the movie was going to be
sexually graphic. While this movie was highly erotic it was done
extremely tastefully. Other directors would have gone more and
cheapened it. Toward the end I was afraid we were heading for another
Fatal Attraction but fortunately did not go that way. This was Julianne
Moore's movie, no doubt, and I am rather surprised at the amount of
nudity she showed. And Amanda Seyfried was HOT! Liam Neeson is almost a
footnote in this film but he shows what a professional he is to do a
film of this type after his family tragedy. I think this was the most
erotic movie Egoyan's done since Exotica. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Atom Egoyan ('The Sweet Hereafter', 'Ararat', 'Where the Truth Lies')
has a gift for setting up cinematic surveillance of private encounters
and studying the results of an incident on everyone witnessing it. In
CHLOE he has engaged the services of Erin Cressida Wilson to adapt the
French film NATHALIE by Anne Fontaine to place it on this side of the
pond. In the French version the successful actors were Fanny Ardant,
Emmanuelle Béart, and Gérard Depardieu: for this version Egoyan has an
equally superb cast to carry off this mysterious story with great
success. The same question arises in both films: 'what is imagined and
what is real?', and it is the getting there that makes this film so
fascinating. 

Catherine Stewart (Julianne Moore) is a gynecologist married to the
successful professor of music David (Liam Neeson) and they have a
stay-at-home hippie son Michael (Max Thieriot) who goes about his life
much the same as his parents: there is superficial companionship but
little in depth relationship. The marriage seems satisfactory until
Catherine plans a surprise birthday party for David, a party David
doesn't attend, and Catherine suspects David of having affairs, a fact
that David apparently suggests by his flirtations with waitresses and
'help'. Catherine is shocked, but realizes that as she is aging this
may be a normal situation in older marriages. 

Catherine visits a bar, a private club for assignations, and there she
meets Chloe (Amanda Seyfried) and eventually buys Chloe's services as a
prostitute to meet her husband and then tell her all about the
encounters. It is agreed that Chloe will be paid for her services and
only go as far as Catherine instructs. From this point on Catherine and
Chloe meet after Chloe has encounters with David and describes the acts
of the encounters in vivid and lurid detail. Catherine is fascinated
and continues to pay Chloe for on going encounters and subsequent
voyeuristic descriptions. Catherine even has a one-night stand of her
own with Chloe in an attempt to understand her husband's need for
infidelity. 

Despite the setup of 'private investigator and prostitute detective'
the two women become friends. When Catherine realizes she has enough
evidence against David to leave him there is a final encounter of the
three (Catherine, David, Chloe, and even son Michael) that brings the
ingenious surprise ending - an ending too fine to share as it would
spoil the film for viewers new to the story. Each of the actors does a
star turn - Julianne Moore, Amanda Seyfried, and Liam Neeson - and once
again Atom Egoyan takes an implausible story and makes us think. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
A great cast are wasted on a pretty dire script. I suppose they thought
they were making something insightful about the nature of trust or
something, but it's a pretty average thriller which retreads the same
path so many other thrillers have. I must admit I found it rather
annoying that we are shown scenes that didn't happen (yes, I know none
of it actually happened!). It would have been more acceptable to me if
the scenes of Chloe's imagined relationship with the David, the husband
(Liam Neeson) had been given a voice-over by her. That would have
indicated that the action could have been taking place in her head. 

It was very Hollywood, in spite of its pretensions to being meaningful.
For example, Julianne Moore's character Catherine is worried that she's
getting old, but this being Hollywood she's not allowed to look
anything other than stunning for the majority of the time. Plus, she
indulges in a bit of lesbianism at the drop of a hat because we all
know that every woman has an inner lesbian dying to get out. Honestly,
you could have cast Shannon Tweed in the role! Chloe's motivation
seemed very vague. She's a prostitute, so I suppose we are meant to
take that as shorthand for her being a DAMAGED PERSON. I came to the
conclusion that she was after Catherine's wardrobe. Chloe wears endless
pretty outfits (she seems to have a limitless number of coats) and has
a shoegasm whilst being diddled by Catherine's son. She won't look at
him, but fixes her gaze on Moore's shoes and clothes (she's being
diddled in Catherine's bedroom btw). 

It had a typical Hollywood ending, the outside influence who is trying
to break up the family unit is killed. The only surprising thing about
it was that she wasn't stabbed with the antique hair slide that we'd
been shown several times. It reminded me of those yuppie-in-peril films
of the late 80s/early 90s like Consenting Adults and Pacific Heights.
<|_=00=_|>
At first I was worried that this movie would end up being the typical
cheesy movie about betrayal and jealusy but after just a few minutes in
to the movie I realised it was going to be much more.

The movie is about a woman that's convinced her husband is cheating on
her, and in her pursuit of the truth she looks for alternatives way to
find out if her husband, who is away on work for long periods of time,
is capable of betraying her.

I won't go into more details on the story than this, and I don't think
I need to. I will say this though; at times I thought I had it all
figured out but I was wrong every time, and that's what made this
thriller particularly interesting, as so many modern thrillers in this
genre generally doesn'y deliver much excitement.

Very good acting, believable characters as well as an interesting
development in the story. I really enjoyed this movie, and I think you
will too. 8/10! .. and did I mention there is nudity? Enough said,
watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a story needs to just let its characters go where the
situation takes them. A situation isn't always conducive to
storytelling (telling a story vs. a situation), but in the case of
Chloe it's the way to go. The situation here is this: a doctor
(Julianne Moore) is suspicious, perhaps even certain in some way, that
her husband, an opera teacher (Liam Neeson) is cheating on her. As a
way to find out, or just out of curiosity as to what he'll do, he
approaches a call-girl (Amanda Seyfried) who has a knack for fulfilling
any client's desire. When Chloe asks this woman about her husband being
the client, she says he isn't. Her job will be to approach him, simply,
in a cafe and see what he does. But according to Chloe, an innocent
conversation (him being "friendly" as he is with a lot of women) turns
into something else entirely... or is it? 

This situation unfolds in a manner that is less about the conventional
'what will happen to their marriage' than what will happen to Moore's
character, and Seyfried's Chloe, in relation to one another. It's one
thing to have a character having sex with one spouse, but then having
it with the other is something else. But that's not even what Atom
Egoyan, the director, is fully interested in (although the sex scenes,
when they do come up, usually from Moore's gynecologist imagining what
her husband has been doing - and then herself actually with Chloe, are
the most seriously erotically charged ones seen in a while). His
concern, as a storyteller with this 'situation' is what is in the mind,
what perception does to a married couple over time.

Catherine can imagine David doing these things, and we as the audience
accept this as what really happened because Chloe, as the in-charge
girl of the fantasy, makes it so. What do we perceive as who's wrong or
right here, or is there even that issue? Eventually the movie Chloe
turns into an obsession kind of story, where Chloe becomes enraptured
with Catherine and their tryst together. A third-act revelation (I
hesitate to call it a twist) makes things a lot more clearer, but does
it matter if one sees it coming (I didn't, but I can see how suspicions
can be had right from the beginning). It's Egoyan's way of seeing these
people in these situations, how serious everything is taken but how it
doesn't become too trashy; only the music by Mychael Danna sees to make
it more of a sleek erotic drama when it doesn't need it (the best music
cue has nothing to do with him, but rather the cutaway from one crucial
scene to the next where Catherine/David's son is playing a perfectly
somber piece of piano at a recital).

One part of it is the camera, sliding along and pairing up the imagery
in certain scenes (watch as Catherine is excited in the shower of the
image of David in the botanical garden, their juxtaposition is
interesting). But another crucial thing is the performances. Moore and
Neeson deliver the goods, and we hope they always do (Neeson especially
has a very hard part, despite the supporting role as the husband, since
he has to reveal what is necessary for Catherine to perceive, not so
much what is fully realistic), and the actor playing the son fares less
well, though that may be due to him being underwritten (or just not
well written enough). But it's Seyfried who comes away here the real
winner; she's naturally sexy and appealing, and can convey Chloe's
ability to play Catherine so well because it's what she does. She's
younger but wiser when it comes to intimacy and the power of
suggestion, and the details in her descriptions, in the writing and the
acting, is totally solid. We've seen Seyfried try, and sometimes
succeed, more or less with material (i.e. Mean Girls and Jennifer's
Body), and here is where she really, fully gets to shine in a
three-dimensional character.

We know the players and we know how it might turn out, but you can't be
sure. Egoyan eschews a Fatal Attraction third act turn for something a
little more dangerous and exciting. I wasn't sure if Chloe was nuts, or
just got off on her own superior way of playing this family of
bourgeois Toronto-ites. It's about knowing what we know, and what we
choose to do with that information as a sexual partner, a lover, a
person, a friend, whatever, and that intimate fantasy element. It comes
close to trash, but it really isn't. Taking its flaws aside, it's one
of the smartest adult (though not pornographic) thrillers in recent
memory.
<|_=00=_|>
The Atom Egoyan behind Chloe is not the auteur behind films like
Erotica and The Sweet Hereafter, but he weaves it in the right
direction, and the end result may be his most erotic film yet. Ergo,
Chloe feels like enough of an Egoyan film for me to argue that going
commercial is not something that will degrade the quality of his work,
(although I can't say much for Where the Truth Lies.) 

Dr. Catherine Stewart suspects her husband is cheating on her, so she
hires a local prostitute to seduce him, and report back with news. The
things that Chloe has to say really turn on Dr. Stewart, and the two
women start to fall for each other. But when Catherine decides it is
time to pull the plug, Chloe isn't so eager to go away.

Chloe grows increasingly eerie, and profound, which draws you in, but
in the last twenty minutes, it comes close to falling apart. The
picture benefits greatly from by Paul Sarossy's cinematography
featuring nuances of harsh light and warm colour tones, that highlight
all the interiors. What we have here a classy looking B-movie. It is
intriguing but not great art.
