
Despicable me is Simply Hilarious. This Movie is not just for kids,
Adults are going to enjoy it even more. The youngest girl in it is
sooooooo cute. Also the Small yellow minions simply adorable and so
funny. The entire hall was laughing through out the movie.

The plot is very interesting to keep you engrossed throughout the
movie.It is not a very original plot but has the very humorous dialogs
and acts.

Steve Carell's is SIMPLY amazing, he is funny in a very different
way...he is the king of the awkward embarrassing insulting type of
comedy. You can't help but remember Steve carell's during some of the
dialog deliveries.

One of the funniest animation movie. Definitely Worth Watching twice.
<|_=00=_|>
Since Toy Story 3 is in theatres, it's rather knee-jerk to compare
Despicable Me to the animation giant. But you shouldn't. Despicable Me
doesn't have the heavy, dark tones of the final Toy Story and,
therefore, is probably better suited to smaller children. As with the
best family films, though, adults will love this story as much - if not
more - than their little ones.

And here's why. It is incredibly rare to see a single dad portrayed in
such a positive light. While Gru has an admittedly "bad" vocation,
there are unbelievably sweet moments between him and the three
children, probably aided by the juxtaposition of tiny girls to a large,
"bad" guy.

The nepotistic supporting cast from Saturday Night Live (even Jack
McBrayer works for Tina Fey) is fantastic. One pleasant surprise was
from Gru's minions: they did not steal the show. Not that they
should've- the little yellow guys were funny and entertaining, but one
would expect from the previews they would ultimately be the best part
of the film... and I'm happy to report that wasn't true.

Despicable Me is LOL funny throughout, warm, goofy, and will not
disappoint. I'd say you're a despicable parent if you don't take your
kids to see it immediately.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am real, not one of those big studios planted minions
that come to IMDb to talk wonders about their new releases. You can
check my history to prove that.

Second of all, to make your time worth, let me tell you what kind of
movies I like and/or dislike (you know, to see if my taste is
compatible with yours).

Taking into account only what would be considered "family friendly
movies", Pixar cannot be topped. From Pixar I believe that "The
Incredibles" is its under appreciated best product, although I have a
soft spot for "Finding Nemo" and "Up" (hey, I agree, "Toy Story" and
"Monsters Inc." are awesome!). Their worst effort is without a doubt
"Cars" (I almost don't even like it), but even that is above a lot of
other crap from other studios.

I like the first "Shrek", "Kung-Fu Panda"; found "9" and "Coraline" a
little bit boring (but interesting, both!), and totally dislike "Shark
Tales", "Planet 51", "Space Monkeys", "Surf's Up", the first
"Madagascar" (except for the penguins and the king lemur, lol).

In a broader sense, my all time favourite animated movie (although not
CGI) is "The Nightmare Before Christmas".

Enough of that! With that very well established, let me give you my
opinion of this movie.

It is amazing! It is charming without being corny; hilarious without
resorting to stupid pop-culture references; exciting without being
overly loud.. and the best thing: it plays like a fable.

It is absurd! ... but in a good way. The whole plan is to steal the
moon, for crying out loud! How ridiculous could that be? And yet, we
are led to root for the evil genius to be able to do just that. The
whole thing is so tongue in cheek that you will pee in your pants
laughing at the effects of having no moon for a few minutes (it is a
quick flash of things, for they are so funny).

The movie is incredibly intelligent. The jokes are dead on and VERY
imaginative (for example - and this is not a spoiler - pay attention to
how they manage to produce light when Dr. Gru and two of his minions
are in a ventilation duct at Vector's fortress - just delightful).

You will fall in love with his minions, and if you have a soft heart,
with the three orphan girls.

OH, I almost forgot!! The 3D... this is the best usage of 3D I've seen
(excepting "Avatar", of course) in a movie. There is a roller coaster
ride scene that will literally "tickle your tummy" (like my kids said).
For the first three seconds it easily compares to the effects found in
"The Simpsons Ride" at Universal Studios.

The action sequences are thrillingly enhanced by the right amount of
3D, and make sure you STAY while the credits roll on. There are some
OBVIOUS usage of 3D on those scenes with very funny results. Actually,
here's a hint: sit down and enjoy these scenes while the people in the
rows in front of you try to exit the theatre; the point of reference
they offer will enhance the 3D in such a cool way that it will seem
that they will bump into the staircase and the minions protruding from
the screen (I suppose that was the intention of these bonus scenes, and
boy they nailed it!) All in all, do yourself a favour and go WATCH
it... I am sure I will do it again! 

Cheers!

P.S. Be sure to learn a little, tiny bit of Spanish so you can "get"
one of the jokes... my family was the only one laughing like crazies
during that scene.. cheers again!
<|_=00=_|>
Despicable Me's teasers and trailers seemed to represent a few
different movies, and that's reflected by the general segregation of
comedy styles that the film begins with. At the film's start, Gru
(Steve Carrell) handles the dark comedy, the trio of orphans get the
cutesy comedy, and the minions handle the slapstick. As the film
progresses, though, these lines begin to blur, building to a strong
emotional finale and a satisfyingly complete tale. (This is one of
those rare non-Pixar animated films that doesn't seem destined for
sequel-dom.)

The tale of rival villains isn't terribly original. Nor is the idea of
a villain having his heart melted by adorable children. But the way
Despicable Me blends these two ideas is just fantastic. There's humor,
action, and heart -- what more could you want from an animated film?

Also notable is the way the star-studded voice cast handles their
characters. While there are a ton of big names filling out the roster,
most of them use accents which render them familiar but not too much
so. It's a different route than many animated films take, and it's
refreshing. Julie Andrews and Steve Carrell especially do well at
straddling the line between their trademark voices and their
characters' accents. The voice that steals the movie, however, is the
adorable Elsie Fisher as Agnes. Almost every line gets either a laugh
or an "Aw..." (On a related note, I love that the orphan girls are
named Edith, Margo, and Agnes. I love old names for young people.)

The plot has enough twists and turns to keep things interesting, and
the antics of the minions provide a nice side of fun to the
proceedings. Also, their reaching contest during the credits is a fun
use of 3-D that had the kids in the theater reaching for the screen.

Last year was a banner year for animation, and this year seems to be
following suit. How to Train Your Dragon amazed, Toy Story 3 is one of
the best animated films of all time, and Despicable Me impresses. A
very pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
Despicable Me, the new animated from produced by Chris Melandandri, who
also produced Ice Age: The Meltdown and Horton Hears A Who, is one of
the summer's stand out movies. Steve Carell, Jason Segel, Miranda
Cosgrove, and Russell Brand are perfect actors to lead this at times
hilarious, at times tear jerking animated tale. Will Arnett, Kristen
Wiig, Danny R. McBride, Julie Andrews and Jermain Clement make for a
worthy supporting cast.

Gru (voiced by Carell) is a evil genius who only wants to win the
affection of his cold-hearted mother (voiced by Andrews), something he
has NEVER had. His only friends are Dr. Nefario, a aging scientist
(voiced by Brand), and his army of minions (voiced by directors Peiere
Coffin and Chris Reneud, and Jermain Clement), Twinky like creatures
with both one and two eyes, it varies. 

When a mysterious newcomer named Vector (voiced by Segal) steals the
Great Pyrimid of Giza, Gru decides to pull off the greatest heist EVER:
stealing the moon! Then, three orphan girls, Margo (voiced by
Cosgrove), Edith, and Agnes (both voiced by newcomers who names I don't
know.) The three of them don't hit it off with Gru instantly, but they
see him as the first real parent they've ever had. Gru slowly begins to
warm up to the girls, and they're interactions make for some truly
heartfelt, and also hilarious moments. Case in point:

Edith: Are these beds old bombs? Gru: Yes. But, they are very old and
highly unlikely to blow up. Try not to toss and turn.

Despicable Me pulls off something almost unheard of: a film that is
enjoyable for both parents and children that does NOT involve humor
centered around bodily functions, or violence. 

Final grade: A Plus infinite number of times!
<|_=00=_|>
DESPICABLE ME is not an animated feature. It is a flat-out
feature-length cartoon, a rare bird in the field, and the first really
successful one since THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE. If anything, it's
better.

Animated features are typically fantasies, taking us to places and
stories that cannot be filmed in live action. They can be dramatic,
fantastic, inspirational, terrifying, all the range of emotions.
Cartoons are different. Cartoons inhabit a universe that is a cross
between Krazy Kat and the Keystone Kops. Walk off a cliff and you don't
fall until you notice. Fall a thousand yards and hit the ground and you
wheeze like an accordion until the next scene, when you're fine.
Cartoons are silly.

And this one is very very silly, from Steve Carell's indecisively
Eastern European-voiced Grue to Julie's Andrews who, as his mom, sounds
like Beaky Buzzard's mother in Bugs Bunny shorts, to the seemingly
indistinguishable minions who talk like Chip and Dale on helium -- Grue
knows all their names. A modern supervillain has to have people skills.

The gags are all spot on in relevance and impeccably timed. The plot
advances at a good clip and even the heartwarming aspects of the plot
never descend into mawkishness -- the little girls whom Grue adopts to
advance his plan to steal the Moon are endearing but frequently
annoying.

I saw the 3-D version and the question arises, should you spend the
extra money to see it in 3-D? I don't think so -- but then I am happy
looking at stuff in black and white and even silent films. You may get
a little more out of the 3-D version, particularly the credit extras.
But that's up to you. See it in whatever form you like, but see it.
<|_=00=_|>
If Warner Brothers and Disney Animation Studios had ever had a baby
they might have named it Illumination. The machine behind "Despicable
Me" takes the wacky bits from old school cartoons and applies 21st
century animation technology to produce a hip and well articulated
masterpiece. From start to finish, the film was absolutely captivating
and sophisticated with an engaging narrative and imaginative
characters.

All of the characters were well-voiced, but I found Jason Segal's
"Victor/Vector" villain particularly inspired. The little yella fellas
were uniformly charming and I expect they'll probably have their own
aisle in toy stores very soon. Carell's crazy villainy was perfectly
tuned, as was Julie Andrews whose new voice adds a delightful note as
the Despicable mother. The juvenile vocals brought both sass and
sweetness to the story, and Kristen Whiig was smarmy in a distinctly
southern way. 

The humor is rich, with winks at classic cinema like "Taxi Driver",
"Apollo XIII", and others. The Bank of Evil is staffed by former Lehman
brothers execs, and recurring motifs and jokes create a comic
continuity that is sustained through the credits. "Dispicable Me" was
my second choice, but now I'm very happy was running a little late this
evening.
<|_=00=_|>
What a year it has been for animated films. So far in 2010 we have had
three great films from three rival studios. DreamWorks kicked things
off with the surprise sleeper hit How to Train Your Dragon and
animation juggernaut Pixar countered with the hotly anticipated Toy
Story 3. Now Universal's Illumination Entertainment has released the
audaciously titled Despicable Me and while it may be the "worst" of the
trio, it is certainly the most purely entertaining.

The strengths of Despicable Me lie within veins commonly found in
animated features, but his entry simply utilizes them extremely
effectively. Along with jumping on the 3-D bandwagon (my theatre was
screening it in normal dimensions) Despicable Me boasts an impressive
voice cast, a ploy first used with Robin Williams way back in the days
of traditional days of animation with Aladdin, superbly executed
slapstick and what I will call the sidekick factor. Whether cute or
wisecracking, you would be hard-pressed to find a film in this medium
that does not employ this tactic. Even so called "art-house" animated
pictures like WALL-E follow the trend (in fact, that particular film
contains two such supporting characters) and Despicable Me ups the ante
and adopts thousands.

The villainous central character of Gru (voiced my Steve Carell)
operates his evil lair with the aid of a multitude of adorable little
yellow workers, and along with their "awwwee" factor, are the subject
of a healthy portion of the aforementioned slapstick. Nestled in
between the easy laughs however is ample heart and if you are prone to
do so, you may very well shed a tear or two. This warmth is generated
by three orphan girls, Margo, Edith and the doe-eyed Agnes, but perhaps
I'm getting ahead of myself. 

All Gru has ever wanted is to be accepted, and what better way to
achieve that goal than by resorting to supervillainy. After a fresh-
faced rival villain Vector (Jason Segel) outdoes Gru by stealing a
pyramid from Egypt, he devises a plan to obtain a shrink-ray from a
government testing facility and use that technology to shrink, and then
steal the moon. Things do not go according to plan after Vector steals
the shrink-ray right out of Gru's spindly clutches. What's a
supervillain to do? Devise another plan of course, this time using the
three aforementioned orphans to infiltrate Vector's lair by selling
cookies. It's all very complicated in writing but works very well on
screen.

Steve Carell does an admirable job in the lead voice role, and his
Russian accent helps us to forget it is an A-list star nestled behind
the animation. Russell Brand gives an unrecognizable performance as Dr.
Nefario, the brains behind Gru's operation, and Kristen Wiig is
hilarious as the head of the orphanage. The most disappointing is
certainly the great Jason Segel whose underwritten character fails him
as does his voice. Half of the allure of Segel is his physical presence
and that is neutered in a voice-only role. While the physical humour
will no doubt please the kids, there is perhaps even more for adults
and if a movie is able to make me double over in the isle, then it must
be doing something right. With Shrek Forever After being the one
misstep for this medium, I look enthusiastically forward to the
remainder of the year. What I know for certain is I (and the audience I
joined) had an absolute blast with this flick, that is despicable in
name only.

Catch all the latest movie news and reviews at
http://playeraffinity.com/movies.html
<|_=00=_|>
As a reviewer mentioned, this year is set to be a great year of
animated films, much like the previous two years. This is proved with
Pixar's unmatched (touching wood) winning streak and Dreamworks'
surprise turn "How To Train Your Dragon", which proceeds to continue
the ever- increasing "golden years" of computer-animated films.
Universal's "Despicable Me" is yet another gem in an already
quite-heavy bag of diamonds.

With nice direction, the filmmakers were able to combine two quite
unoriginal plots into one with ease and without force, and they managed
to add wit, charm and smart humor to it as well. Not to mention heart.
I have never heard of the filmmakers before, but this is a heck of a
debut from two first-time animated film directors. The humor is also
not too over the top, yet utterly hilarious and ingenious when they pop
up. Most of the jokes had the entire audience rolling in the aisles.
The three girls end up being adorable and lovable characters, as per
the main character/protagonist/villain, whom you can't help but cheer
on and care for, no matter what he does. Steve Carell is spot-on as Gru
and he makes the role funnier than it should be, I mean his voice and
humorous style is there behind the funny accent. And what Gru plots and
does is beyond ridiculous and far too funny to be deemed "serious" by
any cynic. Some hilarious supporting characters round out the primary
cast, most notably Gru's assistant Dr. Nefarious played by Russell
Brand, and I could not believe Julie Andrews was Gru's mother, I hardly
recognized her voice at all! Jason Segel was hilarious as Gru's vain
nemesis Vector. And let's not forget the utterly adorable and hilarious
minions and their wacky antics.

Technical wise, the animation is gorgeous, bright and nicely rendered
with a deft touch of simplicity to it, causing it to be not too overly
glossy and polished. This makes the animation look less artificial and
more fluid, and this especially shows when it comes to the practical
jokes. The music score is just wonderful and suits the moods of the
film as they come along. The 3D is great and used quite a number of
times in the movie during many effect-driven scenes, which is very
impressive considering the poor up-conversion to 3D of MANY movies of
late.

Overall, this animated film is a great fun time for the kids and family
to see, and even some teens will get many laughs out of it as well.
This is a very adorable film, full of charm and heart, and with a funny
and lighthearted storyline, and may the powers that be reward this at
the box office, if the mediocre "Eclipse" isn't taking all of its
viewers already. Looks like Universal's animation days are returning.

Entertainment value: 10/10

Overall: 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
When one pyramid of Egypt is stolen, the despicable suburban villain
Gru feels frustrated since he considers himself the greatest criminal
mind ever. However he plans to steal the moon, in the greatest heist of
history, with the support of the evil Dr. Nefario and his army of
minions. Gru intends to hire a loan in the Bank of Evil (former Lehman
Brothers) to build a rocket and steal the shrink weapon to reduce the
size of the moon. But the banker Mr. Perkins intends to invest in the
young Vector, who actually had stolen the pyramid. When Gru robs the
shrink weapon, Vector steals it from him and kept the weapon in his
impenetrable fortress that is protected by state of art security
system. Gru sees that the orphans Margo, Edith and Agnes from Miss
Hattie's Home for Girls have full access to Vector's house to sell
cookies. Gru plots a scheme, adopting the three girls to use them to
recover the shrink weapon from Vector. But the three little girls
change the behavior of Gru and his minions.

"Despicable Me" is a sort of contemporary version of the Charles
Dickens' classic novel "A Christmas Carol" and a highly entertaining
animation with one of the sweetest villain ever, three adorable little
girls and a group of adorable minions. The story is not corny but
human, and the jokes with Bill Gates that is the source of inspiration
of the nerd Vector and with the investment banking Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. that declared bankruptcy in 2008 and affected the lives of
small private investors are witty. In the end, Gru is not the criminal
mastermind that he supposed to be. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Meu Malvado Favorito" ("My Favorite Meanie")
