
IN 1998, when we were all reeling under the weight of the Asian
Financial Crisis, Singaporean film-maker Jack Neo wrote a satire about
three friends with money problems like those faced by most Singaporeans
at that time. That comedy, 'Money No Enough', which was directed by Tay
Teck Lock, earned over S$5.8 million (about US$3 million) and remains
Singapore's all-time highest-grossing film. It also gave the
Singaporean film industry a revival, spawning two copycat flicks.

Now, with such a solid backing for the comedy, what took them so long
(10 years!) in coming up with this sequel? To be sure, this movie is
not a sequel as far as the narrative is concerned. It is no longer
about the three friends but about the exploits of three brothers of a
'typical' Singaporean family with an aged mother (played by Malaysia's
Lai Ming). The eldest, Yang Bao Hui (Henry Thia, representing the lower
income group) delivers goods for a living and longs to be rich one day.
Second brother Bao Qiang (Jack Neo) is in the real estate business
making top bucks, while the youngest, Bao Huang (Mark Lee, representing
the middle class) makes good money selling health supplements.

When a crisis hits, the brothers find themselves at odds against one
another, especially when it concerns taking care of their aged and
ailing mother...

There is no doubt that this comedy works because of the tried and
tested screen chemistry of the Neo-Lee-Thia combination. Also, the
three stars are in familiar roles and they seem very much at home in
them. The supporting cast are credible too, with Lim Ru Ping (as Thia's
doting wife), singer Zhu Ling Ling (as Neo's socialite wife) and Vivian
Lai (as Lee's suffering wife). However, the standout performance comes
from Lai Ming, who is at the center of the 'third act' involving the
issue of filial piety and taking care of the aged. Those with elderly
parents will relate to this tear-jerker of a theme.

Basically, this is a Singapore movie, with Neo lampooning many of the
Government's policies, like its Electronic Road Pricing system. One
problem is that a lot of the jokes are in Hokkien dialect, and those
who do not understand the dialect may feel alienated. Also, it looks
like director Neo is out to break its predecessor's box-office record -
and he packs this sequel with product placements (from soft drinks to
telcos and even a bank).

'Money No Enough 2' looks good enough to surpass its predecessor's
box-office feat. - By LIM CHANG MOH (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
