
A terrifically enjoyable film from debut writer-director J Blakeson.
Apparently working to a tiny budget, he's proved that he has an
incredible understanding of what makes a thriller film work.

There are three excellent performances (lucky, as with only three
actors this needed to be the case), particularly Gemma Arterton as
Alice Creed, who uses her wits and womanly wiles to make a stand
against her tormentors, Vic and Danny.

Much has been made of the plot twists - but I still didn't see them
coming at all! I thought they were ample to keep you guessing right to
the last, and I kept changing my mind as to how I thought things would
turn out. 

I kept reading "taut, claustrophobic and very well put together" when I
was researching this film, and I have to say it delivered on all
counts. Excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit, I share Tom's fondness (bordering on obsession) of Gemma
Arterton's boobs, legs and pretty much everything about her. She also
happens to be be a damn good actress (something you can't say of many
British actresses that are also really fit) and she really shows of her
acting chops in The Disappearance of Alice Creed. This low budget
British indie film is full of violence, nudity and cursing and it's
also pretty damn good.

The film's set-up is pretty straightforward; it's a kidnapping thriller
in which two ex-convicts called Danny (Martin Compston) and Vic (Eddie
Marsan) kidnap a young woman called Alice Crred (Gemma Arterton). The
film opens with the two nasties shopping for some pretty dangerous
equipment, setting up a room and then kidnapping Alice by putting a bag
over her head and a gag in her mouth. It's brutal and shocking stuff.
The reason for all this is that the two dickheads want a ransom for
Alice's return as she's the son of a wealthy businessman.

From then on there's plenty of beatings, Arterton is left completely
(yes, COMPLETELY) naked on one occasion and tied to a bed. It's a lot
cleverer than it seems though; there's a couple of excellent plot
twists which are hard to see coming and the plot is super focused and
tightly written.

Director J Blakeson keeps things simple; there's only 3 characters and
4 locations seen in the film. It's a confident first effort from the
director who handles the camera exceptionally well and gets some truly
gripping performances out of the 3 actors.

Compston and Marsan both more than hold their own opposite the young up
and coming Hollywood star, but the girl from Kent (that's where I
live!) is simply sensational in the role of Alice. Arterton is asked to
be amazingly vulnerable, powerfully miserable, desperately crafty, and
suddenly brave. She succeeds in all departments and despite some of the
iffy Hollywood blockbusters she's been in (Clash of the Titans), this
film proves she can act damn well.

The Disappearance of Alice Creed is a simple film with minimalist
design choices and a tried and true formula. However, it's
fantastically written and shot by Blakeson and the performances from
the 3 leads are top notch. It can be brutal, shocking and a bit
disturbing, but if you want a change of pace from the big and brash
blockbusters then this is a film to go and see.

5/5
<|_=00=_|>
"Tell him that he must pay the money, that he must do exactly as we ask
or we will kill you. You tell him that you have no doubt that we will
kill you."

The Disappearance of Alice Creed is a brutal little thriller about a
woman who gets kidnapped by two men, who plan to use her to ransom £2
million from her wealthy father. The kidnapping itself goes flawlessly,
and once she's securely locked up, there seems to be little that can go
wrong to keep the men from getting the money. But, that wouldn't make
for a very interesting movie, would it? Things go wrong, and the
best-made plan can still end up being a disaster. 

I was somewhat expecting The Disappearance of Alice Creed to be your
standard kidnap and escape kind of movie, but I have to give it credit
for throwing enough wrinkles in to make itself somewhat unique. The
relationships between the two kidnappers and the title character end up
being more complex than they initially seemed, and cracks of distrust
turn the initially well-executed plan into a situation that perhaps no
one will survive.  

There's a strong current of tension that starts with the dialogue-free
beginning and continues all the way to the very end. That's pretty
impressive, in my opinion, and I hasn't seen many movies lately that
keep things that taut for the entire time. In addition to the story,
the acting was solid, as well. When a movie really only involves three
actors (Gemma Arterton, Martin Compston, and Eddie Marsan), one weak
link could ruin it. Thankfully, that's not the case, here.  

Still, I'm not the greatest fan in the world of these kinds of movies,
so even a good one like this (and it is good) has a hard time blowing
me away. If you're a genre fan, though, I think you'll be pleased. 
<|_=00=_|>
'The Disappearance of Alice Creed' is possibly the best British film of
the year. It's a three-hander so the film could of gone one way or the
other, the right way or the wrong way. Thankfully it went the right
way. The script and direction is tight and the films twists are very
surprising. The audience in the cinema gasped at one scene in
particular which you won't see coming at all. I certainly didn't. The
film is helped of course by stunning performances from all three
actors. Martin Compston from Ken Loach's Sweet Sixteen plays Danny, the
younger, twitchier of the two kidnappers who isn't as sweet as he
seems. Eddie Marsan as Vic, the older, vicious and intelligent
kidnapper. And Gemma Arterton who plays Alice, the spoilt, rich girl in
the centre of all the commotion. Those who didn't manage to catch
'Alice Creed' at cinemas missed out. I recommend it to anyone in search
of a lean, tight thriller with excellent performances. ****/*****
<|_=00=_|>
This film to me personally was a little bit of a surprise to say the
least, I was recommended the film by a friend, who said to me its worth
watching, and as a film critic, I put aside some time to give it a
viewing.

I was not disappointed either, with the film starting out somewhat a
little confusing, and uncomfortable at first, it soon dawns upon you
that this is no ordinary kidnapping. I won't release any spoilers here,
but will advise you to watch the film with an open mind, and frame of
mind as there are some surprises that even I didn't see coming.

The plot thickens, and the film has you guessing along the way which to
me is what film making is all about. Watch it, and enjoy, I'm sure you
will know the actor who plays Vic, he is an underestimated actor, who
shines in this film.!
<|_=00=_|>
This film has to go into my all time top ten which is mighty praise
indeed. When you consider there are simply two actors and one actress
it is astonishing how this film unveils and has you riveted from the
opening sequence to it's conclusion. The characters are believable and
I am surprised it hasn't received higher praise. the problem is it
probably never got the hype other films less well made receive. Which
to an extent is a good thing, because the less you know about the film,
the more surprised you will be by it. Great twists and turns and great
acting - The basic premise is two guys who met in prison, organise a
kidnap of a rich girl and then they carry out the kidnap with alarming
precision and professionalism, that the opening 9 minutes has you
transfixed. What happens next is pure acting that can make a film great
or a film mediocre, in this case GREAT
<|_=00=_|>
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF ALICE CREED is a three-hander that sees spoilt
rich kid Gemma Arterton kidnapped by a couple of goons and tied to a
bed while they demand a ransom from her father. That's the entirety of
the plot; of course, it's little to sustain a ninety-minute running
time with that alone, so the scriptwriter has to come up with twist
upon twist to keep the viewer guessing as the running time progresses.

I was in two minds about this film. It's superficially entertaining to
be sure, with lots of drama and attempts at tension, and the suspense
bubbles along quite nicely as the tale progresses. But there are
serious flaws along the way too, not least the entire lack of a
sympathetic character.

Arterton is the obvious choice as somebody to root for, but her limited
acting abilities combined with a rather obnoxious character mean that
the viewer won't really care whether she escapes or even survives the
ordeal. Note to scriptwriter: merely having somebody kidnapped isn't
reason enough for a viewer to get behind them. As for the other two
cast members, Eddie Marsan is a seasoned professional as ever, but
Martin Compston is a little bland and whiny and gets way too much
screen time.

THE DISAPPEARANCE OF ALICE CREED does well to avoid falling into
clichéd territory - there's no torture, for instance, which would have
been an obvious inclusion these days - but once you know the storyline
it doesn't really have much in the way of rewatch value. I liked it
well enough the first time around, though.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Disappearance of Alice Creed' opens with scary and cold
efficiency. Two men stridently go about a mission that isn't
immediately clear. They line the back of their van with plastic, then
go shopping for a drill, a mattress and other tools that, for a while
give indications that they are building a house - or maybe a bathroom
like the one in 'Saw'. They enter a small flat where they assemble a
bed that they nail to the floor and then add padding to the walls. They
also kidnap a young girl and drag her kicking and screaming to the flat
and tie her securely to that bed.

The girl, Alice (Gemma Arterton), is told that she's being held for
ransom. They want money from her father and she will remain there until
they get it. Those scenes have a cold, hard, frightening pace. It all
happens very quickly. It is clear that the two men, Danny (Martin
Compston) and Vic (Eddie Marsan), have worked this plan out piece by
piece. For a while, they remain within the perimeters of their plan,
keeping their faces covered when in the presence of Alice and never
giving their names. Vic, the leader, has such an eye for detail that he
is even able to spot when his partner is thinking too much.

Those opening scenes are actually the best part of the movie and if it
had remained at that pace, the movie might have really worked. But then
the movie employs a silly cat and mouse game that never flow naturally
from the story, but rather just feel written. Alice turns out to have a
connection with one of the kidnappers, the kidnappers turn out to have
a different connection with each other then we expected, and all three
characters are so unwritten and unappealing that we just don't care.

The other problem is that there is no consistency within the
characters. Early on, Vic is established as a man who has honed his
skill for detail down to a science, but there are things that, give
those skills, should be blindingly obvious. Danny turns out to have
less of a cold heart than we are led to believe, and he has a motive
for getting involved in the kidnapping that seems a little more
complicated than it needs to be.

Gemma Arterton, one of my favorite young actors, gets the humiliating
role of Alice whose early scenes, tied to a bed with a ball-gag in her
mouth, are difficult to watch. That's bad enough, but director J.
Blakeson wallows in leering shots of her naked body tied to that bed
like a pervert enjoying his camera. It is uncomfortable. In fact, The
whole movie is grimy like that. It moves back and forth between trying
to find an amount of realism with buckets of red herrings. There are
surprises that crop up from time to time but it is all a sticky, nasty
little con game. When we arrive at the conclusion after one character
has one-upped the other and vice versa over and over and over and over
again, the screenplay has manipulated itself into oblivion.

** (of four)
<|_=00=_|>
Extremely tense, beautifully shot, generally well (if not quite
brilliantly) acted, this is a clever and effective exercise on making
an exciting film on a tiny budget. Even though about 75% of this
kidnapping tale takes place in a two room apartment, director/writer
Blakeson finds enough effective and compelling ways to photograph his
tiny set, and enough sharp plot twists and reveals that any
claustrophobia becomes a plus not a problem. 

There are a few times when credulity is stretched, and a few plot turns
that have that sense of being a 'clever twist' instead of something
organic to the characters or the story (you can feel them as they're
where the acting is less strong, you can see the actors strain to make
them 'work'), but neither shortcoming is enough to keep this from being
a highly entertaining, and even ultimately oddly touching nail-biter.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fine example of what can be done with a small budget but a
decent script and some good actors. 

The cast is precisely three and rarely can a film have ever been made
that has the entire screen time taken up by so few people. This makes
the film quite claustrophobic which is a pretty effective technique
given the plot. The films does build up a nice degree of tension and
whilst the plot is simple there are plenty of genuine surprises along
the way although a stronger ending would have made this an even better
film. 

All three actors are very good but particularly impressive is Eddie
Marsan as the older of the two kidnappers who is genuinely menacing. 

This is a raw and at times violent film but well worth a watch if you
are looking for something just a bit different.
