
I'm almost convinced film critics are paid off...I thoroughly enjoyed
this movie more than most of the "critically acclaimed" films I've
watched this year. This movie had everything- love, drama,
philosophical/existential questions, and incredibly suspenseful moments
(and not just action scenes!!). The acting was great, pacing was good
(never was bored), and the visuals were amazing as well. Also the
trailer didn't spoil the movie at all, which was nice. My only gripe
would be about the ending, which was still fine.

Overall would really recommend watching over the holidays. Really
enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Professional film critics are stupid. That is the conclusion you must
reach after watching this movie. I was not expecting much after reading
the uniformly negative critical reviews. But I was surprised. The movie
is plausible. It is more than plausible, it is realistic. And the
acting is so eminent that you are there yourself trying to decide what
you would do if you awoke on a fully autonomous spaceship trying to
figure out what is going on.

Granted, there are no alien horror creatures, no protracted fast-action
sequences, no superficial technical nonsense to cover a thin plot.
Maybe this is what the critics were missing.

There is only beautiful scenes, eminent acting, a plausible plot and a
surprising ending. But that was enough for me.

So go watch this movie and decide for yourself how implausibly stupid
the film critics are.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is definitely worth your time. Firstly, 10/10 for realism. I
would absolutely have done all those things if I were in their shoes.
Secondly, the acting is one of the best I've seen (I was pretty
skeptical about J.Lawrence but not anymore after this movie; and Chris
Pratt's acting keeps getting better and better since GotG). The plot is
quite unique (I do not believe I've ever seen another plot that
resemble this). Lastly, the visuals is BREATHTAKING (I absolutely adore
the ship design).

The pacing was a little bit too fast at the end but not that
noticeable. 

Rating: 9/10 

Sometime a simple movie with simple plot is better than s**t like
Batman vs Superman because there are less space for mistakes. Also, do
not expect much action in this movie (I expected more action but in the
end I was OK without it.)

Also, sleeping beauty is also named Aurora xD
<|_=00=_|>
Passengers is yet another example as to why you should go see the
movies professional critics hate & save your money on the ones they
absolutely love. Going to see a movie at the theater is like $30 now
for just 2 people & that's without visiting concessions. I don't know
about everybody else but if I'm going to spend a few days worth of
grocery money for a 2 hour movie experience I'm really hoping not to be
bored to tears or looking at the time wondering how much longer it'll
be until a movie is over. Passengers just ends up on my very long list,
lately, of movies critics tried to bring down that were waves better
than the ones they are directing people to see. This movie is visually
stunning & the story telling is not only thought provoking but
innovative while doing so! It was great to see a story like this one
told in a way that didn't spend most of its time trying to dialogue
it's way into Oscar nominations. If you are going to venture out to see
a movie for the Holidays go see this one!
<|_=00=_|>
After the trailer release of this movie it became one of this year's
most anticipated movies, but some people were expecting something
entirely different than what this movie aimed for, and the result was
their disappointment. 

People need to be aware that this movie is an ADVENTURE/ROMANCE and a
bit SCI-FI. NOT A SCI-FI 2001:SPACE ODYSSEY KIND OF MOVIE.

I will start giving my own honest review of this movie. First of all,
The acting in this movie is phenomenal, of course when you get 2 great
actors like Chris Pratt and Jennifer Lawrence you know it would work in
any kind of role, and it's true, the chemistry between both of them
just works flawlessly and it's very gorgeous as they're both very
handsome and it's just nice to see them on screen.

Then comes the VISUALS, which i consider to be this year's best ( Along
with Dr.Strange ), The best way to watch this movie is at a theater
with a huge screen and definitely better to catch the 3D version. I
really don't know where to start with the visuals because the whole
movie is just beautifully shot and the CINEMATOGRAPHY of this film is
perfectly done, probably each scene in this movie is Iconic. 

The Plot wasn't as good as the other factors but still it managed to
keep the pacing of the movie going and I was definitely not bored, even
though the ending wasn't spectacular but again this isn't Christopher
Nolan's Interstellar, this is just a movie about 2 lovers surviving on
a spaceship alone.

The best way to describe this film is to say that it's Titanic all over
again but in space and it's beautifully shot, emotional, and overall an
exciting experience.

It's really sad that people misunderstood the point of this film and
were going for a complex space/time plot instead of a simple
good-looking love story, but I know that moviegoers will definitely
like this film. Give it a try and if not for the story then just for
Wonderful scenes and for the link between the 2 main characters

Conclusion: Great, Simple, Gorgeous and Highly Entertaining are the
four things you'll be saying after watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a forty-something male and I loved this movie. I didn't quite know
what to expect, saw some less than glowing reviews, but decided to
favor the more positive reviews and head to the theater. I'm glad I
did. 

If you like science fiction, this has it. If you like romance, this has
it. If you like excellent special effects, this has it. If you like a
good story, yes, this movie has that too. 

This isn't a Star-Trek style high-octane Sci-Fi action movie. It's a
solid blend of drama, romance, action, intrigue, stunning visuals,
occasional suspense, human psychology, and for me was a winning
combination.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't quite get all the hate that this film gets... I can also think
of great number of recent alleged sci-fi films that don't deserve a
minute of one's time, yet they are cherished and loved.

In any case, I went to see Passengers with high expectations. While I
am not a fan of either Jennifer Lawrence or Chris Pratt, they were very
good in this film - good enough to immerse me in the story (unlike most
other alleged sci-films these days). I've been a fan of Michael Sheen
ever since I saw him in Midnight in Paris where he was brilliant also,
and his performance in Passengers was so good that it is easy to forget
that this synthetic robot with a plastic smile is brought to you by a
thespian. What a performance! Worth seeing just for that alone.

The story is by now well known, due to spoilers being given away like
candy during Halloween and partly due to (leaked?) script that was
posted a while ago. Most importantly: the film has been changed from
the original script and for the better.

The thing that I liked about this film is that first of all - it is not
stupid. I did not have to put an extra effort to suspend my disbelief
the way I had to for most recent sci-fi favorites (except Martian which
I liked). Yes there may be one or two occasions when I knew that "such
would be almost impossible" but even then, there is also an option that
the situation had something that we, the viewers may not be aware of.
For instance, the sudden loss of gravity would require sudden stopping
of the rotation of the ship; that would require enormous amount of
energy, otherwise things don't just stop in space. But, who knows -
maybe the ship did decide to stop the rotation? So not entirely
impossible (this is not a spoiler because the official trailer clearly
suggests loss of gravity).

The drama of the film is obviously based on the fact that two
passengers woke up too early during their cross-universe trip. No
matter what you think of the morality of how that all happened,
remember this is a film and not televangelism. In other words:
political correctness stops where character portrayal starts.

In the end, I can say that there was plenty to enjoy in this film, from
excellent visuals to great performances all around. I actually plan to
buy this in bluray, which I don't do that often with new movies (my
library of recent films includes "Argo", "Dallas Buyers Club",
"Midnight in Paris"...) If you are expecting another marvel-comic
inspired super-hero driven FX fest, you will be disappointed. No
iron-men or spider-men or any other mutants in here. Just your plain
simple ordinary humans with all their shortcomings.

But if you are looking for an interesting story, with an interesting
premise, and no cringe-worthy "even kids know this is impossible"
moments, than this is for you.

ps. I loved the attention to detail which translated to some really
cute and funny scenes...
<|_=00=_|>
If you want a very enjoyable, aesthetically pleasing and romantic movie
to watch, I think this is absolutely perfect. I think critics are
giving it bad reviews because it didn't have the best dialogue, so
don't go if you're just looking for something negative in a movie. If
you're emotional, I think this would be a good movie to watch during
that time. It's beautiful, well done, heartbreaking in some moments,
and has amazing actors. It's comedic and romantic, with some intense
parts so it has a lot of complements and genres in it. This isn't a
negative thing at all, this movie just has it all. The story line and
the message are thought provoking, and it's an all around amazing
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing film. I didn't know what to expect, all I knew going in was
that two people woke up 90 years too soon, on their way to a distant
planet.

I came out having seen well-developed characters faced with difficult
choices and having to come to term with those choices. To me, a very
realistic movie about human nature, ultimately. I guess Neil DeGrasse
Tyson or whoever will soon make a statement on the movie's accuracy,
but as far as I could see (being a closet nerd for interstellar
travel), it did it better than many films in the past have.

The one minor nitpick I could find in the whole film, was when the ship
announces them passing a star close up - why did the ship have it
programmed to announce it, if they were not going to be awake for
another 90 years? But to me, this film had everything. Good pacing,
just enough action, emotion, suspense, and believable characters that I
ended up really feeling for, and like in another film I just watched
(Light between oceans), you see one of the main characters making a
terrible decision but you know that in the same situation, anyone would
have done the same thing.

To those that down vote it or boycott it because "a man is taking
advantage of a woman" - get a life. Not everything has to be about your
political agenda, or gender or race. If the gender roles were reversed,
we wouldn't be hearing a peep from you. So sit down and enjoy an
amazing movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailers made this out as serious science fiction, but it was
basically a glorified "boy meets girl" movie in space. 

Apart from a sleep inducing middle act where nothing happens apart from
the two leads courting each other, the suspension of disbelief needed
here, is staggering, mainly in the form of seemingly superhuman
protagonists. Some spoilers ahead:

1. A woman passes out while in a bubble of water, effectively drowning,
then miraculously "wakes up", while still in the water a few minutes
later just because the bubble splashes down into a pool. 

2. On multiple occasions people slipping on something and crash landing
on their back leaves no damage other than them simply getting up and
saying "ouch" as if it's a cartoon. 

3. Male lead withstands thermonuclear blast at the end without as much
as a heat rash, then runs out of oxygen due to a cracked helmet and
drifts into space, but instead of freezing and suffocating when the air
runs out gets rescued by his girlfriend who simply jumps off the star-
ship in his general direction and miraculously catches him.

4. Out of 5000 pods, the one of the guy they really need malfunctions,
who wakes up, explains how they can save the ship (which he's
completely unqualified for given his job), and then being the token
black guy, dies pretty much straight away.

6. Woman suffers major upper body trauma but carries on as if nothing
happens.

With a bit of care to some details and without the totally artificial
and forced happy ending this could have been really good. As it is, it
came across as desperate to not challenge its target audience too much
and suffered for it.
