
What a bitter disappointment! In order to explain what is missing from
the film, please allow me to describe what I love about the books.

Suzanne Collins creates a moving portrayal of a girl living under a
cruel dictatorship. Set against a background of extreme poverty, these
books show how the unequal distribution of wealth affects Panem's
society. Those living in the wealthy Capitol have so little in common
with the destitute people from the Districts that they regard the
deaths of District children as entertainment. The violence in The
Hunger Games is shocking because it is brutal and unnecessary, yet
wholly embraced- even celebrated- by Capitol residents. As for the
District tributes, they are not enemies but they kill each other all
the same, some reluctantly and others with enthusiasm. As the trilogy
progresses, it becomes a compelling commentary on the madness of war
and the sad futility of violence. However, these themes are woven into
the books in such a way that you may not even notice they're being
discussed. You become so immersed in Katniss's world that poverty is a
given, and violence a sad but expected part of life.

The film follows the basic storyline but lacks emotional depth. The
character development is almost nonexistent and the deaths in the arena
are bloodless in every sense of the word. The tributes are little more
than walking stereotypes so their deaths have no impact. Even Rue's
death- heart-wrenching in the book- is little more than a side note in
the movie. If I hadn't read the books, I don't think I would have
understood the dynamic between the tributes at all, including the
conflicted relationship between Katniss and Peeta. Their romance comes
across as cheesy and unconvincing. There is no hint of the bond that
grows between them as the story progresses.

Perhaps my biggest criticism of this movie is that no one seems to be
going hungry! I cannot believe the filmmakers overlooked this important
point. The Capitol's exploitation of the Districts is supposed to be
the backdrop for the entire story. When Katniss arrives in the Capitol
and observes how food appears at a touch of a button, she cannot
understand how Capitol residents fill their time. The majority of her
days are consumed with feeding her family. It defines her. Most of the
tributes have never had enough to eat and this is a major factor in the
Games.

The beginning of the movie seemed promising. The ominous mood in
District 12 was just right. It is apparent that the people who live
there are exhausted and resigned to their fate. When residents appear
for the reaping, they look like cattle being rounded up for slaughter.
The Capitol, in contrast, is frightening in it's frenetic
artificiality. This juxtaposition was well-done. However, the
filmmakers lost me when the tributes entered the arena.

There was no sense of tension. The tributes make all kinds of noise as
they move through the woods, seemingly oblivious to the fact that they
are being hunted. Katniss stands about ten feet away from Cato as he
snaps a boys neck and we are supposed to believe he doesn't see her?
The scenes from the control room are pointless and add nothing to the
movie. They should have spent that time on character development!
Unfortunately, this lack of character development causes the emotional
scenes to fall flat. I am astounded this was even possible, given the
subject matter, but the overall result lacks intensity and depth.

I will credit Elizabeth Banks with an excellent portrayal of Effie
Trinket. She adds humor and a sense of the absurdity of Capitol life.
Donald Sutherland also does well as President Snow. Jennifer Lawrence
is an adequate Katniss but Josh Hutcherson is terrible as Peeta. He's
just not very likable. We see none of his inner strength. Instead, he
comes across and whiny and weak. And Wes Bentley seems to be included
just to showcase his ability to grow an amazing beard.

One more thing. What happened to Haymitch?! He's supposed to be a
self-destructive drunk! His cunning is all the more unexpected because
he seems incapable of taking care of himself. I was thrilled when they
cast Woody Harrelson and he does well in some parts but it seemed like
they had to water down his character to market it to young adults.

This movie had a lot of potential but it fell short in many important
ways. A score of 3/10 is pretty harsh but I felt as though the
filmmakers kept all of the plot points and none of the meaning. Read
the books instead.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, first let me admit that I haven't read the books, and I didn't even
know they existed: I was taken to the cinema by my girlfriend, who saw
something in the trailers I didn't which made her all excited. So, I
sat there with a clear mindset, no expectations, no prejudice, no
background info whatsoever. First things first: whoever invented the
the "let's shake the camera all around because it makes the movie so
much more lifelike" and convinced others to follow him or her, should
be shot. Twice, in fact, just to be sure...It is really annoying, and
so unnecessary: it is not making anything more real. For me, in many
cases the hectic and jerky camera movement seemed to be only a poor
attempt to mask fact that there is nothing (or not much) happening, but
it tries to make it look intense and action packed regardless. So
cheap...and apart from pissing me off, it didn't work at all, but I
admit I well may be a minority... The story feels like it is hanging in
the air. Again, I didn't read the books so the scenes may have been
adequately set there, but in the movie you get 10 lines, and off you
go...and it doesn't add much depth later on either. The most
fundamental question remained: what's the point? Sending 2 dozens of
younglings to slaughter won't hold aggression at bay in itself,
actually it is more likely that the infuriated parents driven mad from
the grieving over the unnecessary and pointless death of their children
will cry for revenge and go into resistance, or even spark a brutal
bloodbath (especially that it is an annual event, so sooner or later
everyone will be affected by friends or family). Also, the scale is
hanging in the air too, you don't know how the 2 opposing populations
(the "citizens" of the shiny new world and the habitants of the 12
district) relate to each other, which would be rather pivotal. I won't
go on with the many potholes, the bottom line for me is that the scene
was set simply poorly. The story, well, is very simple and straight,
once you stepped over the inadequate surroundings. Feels painfully
unfinished, and though I din't know there is a series behind, I told to
the (rather disappointed) missus in the end that it must be so because
they already have a sequel in mind. Knowing that gives a little excuse,
but still left a hollow "is this really it?" kind of feeling in the
both of us. The striking similarities with Battle Royal I'll leave
alone... Acting was OK, considering the absurdity of some of the
characters and the whole context (background and story). I'm sorry, I'm
not a big fan of the lead actress (Jennifer Lawrence), as I didn't even
know her before this movie (althogh I saw and really liked First Class,
but somehow couldn't connect). Regardless, she does a good job of
portraying and transferring the tension, fear and uncertainty of the
situation she is pulled into, at least a good number of scenes, in fact
her efforts were one of the few "ups" for me among the many "downs"
during that long 2,5 hours. Kudos to Elizabeth Banks as well for
creating a "sugar-monster" character, and also for the fact that though
I know her face well enough (just seen in Man on the ledge), here I
simply couldn't recognise :) Based on the movie itself, I really don't
know how this can be so popular, but I admit I'm probably not the
target audience, and also the books may be much better (well, it
wouldn't be difficult as the bar is set really low). Donald Sutherland
was brilliant saying "only hope is stronger than fear", but that and Ms
Lawrence's occasional shine doesn't make this worth to sacrifice and
evening for. I have a frequent visitor card so it didn't cost me
anything, but if I've paid almost 10 quids for this, I would be rather
upset...
<|_=00=_|>
Simply, many over the age of 18 read these books and loved them, and it
wasn't because there was a girl, a boy, and another boy in a love
story. It was about an awful political system where children faced to
the death for their survival with awful paragraphs of cruel brutality.
This is part of what made the book unique. The movie, was an attempt to
draw a crowd like Twilight for money, and completely blurred out
children killing each other to survive so that it could be made PG13.
Ridiculous. Jennifer Lawerence is an AWESOME actress though, and she
did a great job. Throughout the movie I was never convinced that she
lived in district 12 nearly starving... or that Peeta was dying in the
hunger games.. it was all very pretty and not anything like I imagined
they would do with it. Oh well, maybe they'll remake a rated R version
some day that adequately portrays the books theme.
<|_=00=_|>
The start of the movie is so obvious, with a tiny little girl scared
out of her wits who has no business being in the Hunger Games, most
predictably the lead actresses little sister it was obvious she was
going to take her place. Even more less surprising we find out that the
boy going with her has a crush on her.

On to 1 hour and 15 minutes of Woody Harrelson being not nearly
believable enough as a crude alcoholic become soft hearted, a lot of
senseless dinners, a lot of hype for the contestants we know nothing
about, absolutely no politics or explanation of what the Hunger Games
actually are or how it came about, and an awful underlying message sent
out to viewers. "Just be yourself, but do what everyone expects!"
Katniss went from being tough, to a weak and sleepy survivor.

Are you bored yet? So, they get thrown out into the Hunger Games, there
is absolutely no build up whatsoever. The only person you know is out
there is Katniss and the boy who came with her. The rest of the
contestants you don't know, hardly have a clue as to what they're
capable of, most of them die at the start anyway. Katniss runs away
from the initial slaughter, to take a nap. Then she takes more naps. At
one point out of the blue she finds herself in the middle of fiery
doom, with fireballs launching at her, she barely survives. Well, lucky
for her, though we were never told. she has some sponsors save her,
with the help of a silent montage of Woody Harrelson laughing with a
bunch of poorly dressed somebodies. She gets saved with super healing
medicine! She takes more naps.

Later, we find out the boy who has a crush on her is teamed up with the
last of the jerks, for some reason, in a game where only one survives,
there are people who travel in groups. Okay? Why??? They make some
pathetic attempts to kill her, then give up and sleep. Kat makes a new
friend who seems to be the most resourceful, herbal expert. She tells
her to dump a bunch of insects on them. Then while it takes forever for
her to saw a tree limb off, we're told these are evil, dangerous
insects that will kill you. How convenient! She gets stung a few times,
and conveniently kills a girl with the bow and arrows, which just so
happens she's an expert with. How lucky! Too bad she was stung by these
insects, now she's going to take more naps and be saved somehow... by a
tiny girl who knows herbal remedies. Wish we would have known that!
They turn out to be good pals, what a surprise that is. Well, after a
lot more boring stuff of not getting to know anything about what is
going on, they randomly decide to go find out what the meanies are up
to.

Turns out, they gathered all the supplies and somehow found a bunch of
land mines to surround the pile. Okay? What's that supposed to do?
Apparently, some girl isn't part of their group, she expertly dodges
every land mine and gets away with something. So, instead of gathering
some supplies, Katniss blows it all up. Then... runs away! Katniss and
her little pal find each other, but get attacked, Kat swiftly dodges a
spear throw, and sticks the attacker with an arrow. The attacker dies
instantly. But finds out poor little girl was stuck by the big spear.
Except it takes FOREVER for her to die, we don't know anything about
this character, so we don't care, so the long drawn out death is
stupid.

Well, Kat runs off alone and finds her boy who has a crush on her. For
some reason untold he's not with the group anymore and he's badly
injured somehow. Okay, they hobble off after way too long, and then
find a cave where it takes way too long for them to get things going.
She decides to go off on her own for some supplies, and gets attacked
by a girl who takes too long to kill her, but some other guy out of the
blue SAVES Katniss... for absolutely NO reason, and then... just leaves
her alone! In a game where only one survives, with the perfect
opportunity to turn the odds in his favor... just leaves her alone! She
goes back, takes a lot more time, and finds out there is only one
person left? Really? Thanks for showing us some of the action... but
anyway they leave the cave, and the Hunger Game... techs, or IT people
or whatever they are, unleash a bunch of dogs that are really big and
full of muscle. Kat and her boyfriend OUTRUN all of them to a huge
metal platform where they're surrounded by blood thirsty animals... who
could easily make the jump to the top of the platform... don't. Instead
the last guy, whoever he is, is bloody and looks like he can barely
move, beats the crap out of both of them. How he got by the dogs is
beyond me... but whoever can do that must be amazing, until, Kat shoots
him in the hand with an arrow. This causes him to fall off and get
eaten by dogs. But Kat feels sorry for him, and puts him out of his
misery.

After this, there is nothing really to note. Nobody says anything
important and nobody cares, they just wish it would end, because they
don't really know what happened at all. They don't really know anybody
but Kat, Donald Sutherland gives some meaningless scornful look, and
walks off and the credits roll.
<|_=00=_|>
like everyone else, before going to the movies I stopped on IMDb and
read a few criticisms of the film - both those with better than average
grade, and worse. But I think it's finally time to wonder what is the
purpose of this time consuming ritual. because when a little thought,
in few years back, i found that just a couple of films is well
characterized with the average grade on this site. 

but here, not only that I stopped with this habit, I decided to write
my first review. for me like for many others with first reviews,
trigger is terrible dissatisfaction with seen. I did not read the book
nor did I know until yesterday that this film is another adaptation.
for the book I do not know, but the movie turned out, on my sorrow, to
be for children up to 14 years maximum - the magic of 21st century and
advertising machinery. 

After the first few minutes of the film when you realize you're 28 year
old who is stuck with teenage movie and after you realize what would
not just the end, but everything, look like, you tell yourself: ''sit
back and at least try to enjoy visual side of the movie''. but that too
ceases to be an option once you realize that you are about throw up
because some producer decided it was more fun instead of continuous
motion of camera to record in the way: cut-ear, cut-leg, cut-tree in
the background,cut-somebody runs, cut-Hair... and all that in 0.3
second and from different - all possible angles. must be seen to be
believed. but even that is not the worst, because imagine what the
feeling of nausea you get when you realize that the hour of the movie
is spent to describe the characters and get nothing better then awful
cliché: bad guys are trained, arrogant bullies that smile too much and
of course despite the superhuman strength, arrogant like that, they
must be kicked by the petite 16 year old shy girl. but since this is
still a children's movie, you will not literally see bloody action
scenes where this brave archer girl kills super-strong and skilled
bullies, but you will rather see scenes where those skilled bullies can
not figure out how to catch a girl who ran away from them to a tree, so
they decide camp under a tree until this girl alone does not get hungry
and climb down. but because it was cold, of course, the bullies get
cold so they find it was smart thing to make a fire and warm themself,
but not too close to tree as it could catch on fire and kill a girl
they've been chasing to kill.

:)

To conclude, if you're not 14 year old teenager, this is not a movie
for you. don't get yourself tricked like I did.

cheers
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I'm a huge fan of the "The Hunger Games"
book series by Suzanne Collins. I've read them countless times and when
I found out they were making a movie of them a little over a year ago I
was very excited. But I was also worried.

"The Hunger Games" is not very easy source material. The book is
written in first person narrative with very detailed descriptions of
everything form the characters' looks to the strange futuristic devices
they use in Panem, the future version of the U.S. where the story takes
place. I couldn't imagine that they would be able to convey every
detail as I had imagined it and make the story believable without an
R-rating or a huge budget. All of my concerns were wiped away when I
saw the movie.

I've never seen a more faithful adaption of a book in my life. All of
the costumes, the sets, the locations, the cast (I'll talk more about
them in a while) and the pacing is as if they were exactly replicated
from the book. And the small things that do differ or are added (such
as more insight to the gamemakers' control room) only add to the
amazing world Collins created and improve the narrative movie-wise. And
the movie is great for people who haven't read the books as well. Not
once did I feel as if something was vague or badly explained.

The cast is stellar. Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss carries the movie and
makes me regret complaining about her casting because she was too "hot"
and not starved enough. She IS Katniss and one can feel the graveness
of an situation just by looking at one of her expressions. Josh
Hutcherson as Peeta is also a true breakout performance. The way he
looks at Katniss will makes girls all over the world envy her, just
like it's supposed to be. Other standouts in the cast include Stanley
Tucci as the flamboyant talk-show host Caesar Flickerman, Woody
Harrelson as the sarcastic but caring mentor Haymitch and Wes Bentley
as the sinister game-maker Seneca Crane (his final scene might be the
best one in the whole movie). The child actors Willow Shields and
Amandla Stendberg who portrays Prim and Rue are believable and
heartbreaking even though they're inexperienced.

Despite the PG-13 rating the movie doesn't gloss over or sugarcoat
anything for their audience. The violence may not be gloriously graphic
but it's still there. People will feel the tributes' pain and despair
and not even realize the violence isn't gory until you've left the
theater. The movie also deals with important themes like survival,
governmental control, grief and helplessness. There is a minor love
story subplot, but it doesn't distract from the movies main themes. In
my opinion I think it rather improves them by showing some light in the
dark.

The only complaint I can think of is that the movie feels too short.
It's almost two and a half hours long, but it feels as if it goes by in
a blink. I will have to see it again to fully pay attention to every
detail (such as the costumes and animation of the Capitol, which looked
amazing). But this is still not me saying that the movie is rushed,
because as I stated the source material is very dense and the
filmmakers managed include almost everything.

People are expecting this to become the next Twilight-style teen movie
franchise. I can't say I think the two stories have anything in common
even though I hope "The Hunger Games" will do as well at the box
office. But if the first movie is any indication of the quality of
what's to come - this will be a series way out of Twilight's league.
<|_=00=_|>
The trouble with this movie is that I'm old enough to have seen many of
its antecedents. So before The Truman Show, which is essentially the
same idea as The Hunger Games, we have Battle Royale, The Running Man
and of course, Rollerball. They all deal with mass entertainment in a
dystopian future society and they all have their flaws. What's really
disappointing about The Hunger Games is that unless you've read the
book, the film will give you only a fleeting glimpse into why the games
are called that. There's nothing else to help the naive reader make
sense of the plot and because of this, the involvement of children will
seem a bit odd to anyone who hasn't read the book. In fact, that's
something you should take into account when reading many of the reviews
of the film as they're written by people who have read the books and
can fill in the wide gaps in the film without even thinking about it.
Some have said its plot line is mildy satirical, but in my view that's
just an excuse for a poorly filleted and disappointing adaptation of a
marvellous book.
<|_=00=_|>
In a cinematic world of re-makes, re-imaginings and full-blown copies,
it's inevitable to see a movie like The Hunger Games wallow in the
limelight and hysteria of mainstream banality and post-Potter hunger
simply because it's there. Adapted from Suzanne Collins' trilogy of
teen- friendly novels, The Hunger Games looks set to follow in the
well-off footsteps of Harry Potter and the soon-to-cease Twilight as
the next big-money, low-brow saga for the GCSE bound masses. 

This moderately engaging adaptation of Collins' first novel plays like
a pre-teen spin on Battle Royale. Director Gary Ross shoots for a
futurist-retro sense of uprising, endurance and wonder and in the eyes
and minds of 11 year-olds, he's on target. There's plenty to behold,
but little to absorb. Despite all efforts, The Hunger Games is starved
of a character or scenario to really care about.

A hyped-up, cheesy and dumbed down treatise on human nature, spirit,
freedom and TV culture, this is a badly-acted, action-crammed movie
built on a much explored prophecy that's been residing in both
literature and film for years; a nightmare dystopia in which society is
slave to a tyrannical regime. But what do you know; there's a rebellion
on the cards. And guess what? It's only lead by an unlikely yet
inspiring hero. The Hunger Games is nothing new, then, but hold your
horses; pitting 24 kids against one another in a game of death on a
top-secret island is an original idea that's sure to evoke sympathy,
shock and compassion. Isn't it? Well, maybe, but not if you know your
films; not if you've seen Battle Royale.

A bloody slice of social satire with shock and awe to spare, Battle
Royale was by no means the first to offer up a glimpse into an
oppressive fictional world where people are forced to fight to the
death. Sparticus, Running Man and even Gladiator all touched upon on
this idea of enslaved cock-fighting for the "greater good" and fun of a
bent society. 

Suzanne Collins' tale may not be a rip-off of Battle Royale, but it is
a blatant source. In director Ross' big screen retooling, The Hunger
Games is set in a far from terrifying, post-war America whose
totalitarian government get their kicks from a legislation born out of
the ashes of World War III; each of the country's 12 districts are to
offer up one young girl and boy every year to slog it out on live TV in
a last-kid-standing tournament set on a virtual island. This; a
sacrificial homage to a nation's thirst for blood and conflict. A
punishment for an early, post war rebellion. A tribute to state power;
The Hunger Games.

The film follows Katniss (Jennifer Lawrence), a steadfast teen who puts
her life on the line when she volunteers to replace her younger sister
in the upcoming games. What follows is a predictable tale of heroism
and self-sacrifice as Katniss and clunky love interest Peeta (a wooden
Josh Hutcherson) are wined, dined, trained and then hurled into a giant
lion's den full of determined, blood-thirsty brats who are there to
win, to kill. Will Katniss and Peeta fall in love? Will they both make
it out alive? If not, will one of them be the victor? Do you care?

The Hunger Games is a self-assured, self-important piece of
profit-reaping cinema whose potentially bleak and barbaric set-up
cannot be realised through on screen peril, atmosphere, gore and
violence due to its mild target audience. Alas, there is a lot of
hand-held camera-work and rapid editing to cover up the scuffles,
scraps, impact and blood. It doesn't work. Over-hyped and overdone;
turns out it doesn't take much to tailor a totalitarian future concept
for the modern-day youths; just strip it of all depth, complexity and
darkness, throw in some weapons, some fire, a bit of romance and some
heartthrobs and you'll be laughing all the way to the bank.
<|_=00=_|>
First let me say, I love the books.

Now let me voice my problems with the movie:

Acting:

Actors were good, I actually expected a worse performance. My problem
was a lack of character development, they felt very flat, you don't
link with the necessity of Katniss to win.

Plot:

They are called the HUNGER GAMES. They have to suffer, they have to
fight for food, they have to kill each other. They made an R rated book
a PG-13 movie and they expect it to work ? The fight had to be brutal
like it was in the book, the tension of them moving in an arena that
was trying to kill them didn't exist in the movie.

The political implications you never understood them, you don't get
that sense people in the other districts are linked in some way to the
capitol, you don't sense people in the other districts has to suffer to
great extents to find food. 

Development:

The movie is freaking slow, I was failing sleep, mind you I finished
the books in 18 hours non stop of reading. There are some useless
scenes, others are too long and the important ones are too fast.

Camera:

Please kill the director and his stupid shaky camera, it was annoying.
He failed to portrait the suffering of the participants, the action,
the fights.

I hope they do something for the next two or else I wont watch them.
They need a better director, screenplay and writer.
<|_=00=_|>
I will start off by saying that I did not read the books. I'm also one
of those people that when I first saw the trailer, I thought it was a
Battle Royale remake. When I found out it wasn't, I was quite
surprised, cause they seemed very similar. You cant always judge a film
by it's trailer though. So to be fair, I decided to give this movie a
chance, and not go into it comparing the two.

The movie has quite a slow start, and even though they take a long time
building up; I didn't get the idea that I was getting to know any of
the characters. They really didn't do a good job making any of the
characters likable, or let them develop in any way. The main character
in this film, Katniss, was already portrayed as a tough girl from the
very beginning of the film. Nothing in the first part of the movie did
anything to either develop this, or add to it.

When the games finally start, I was kind of excited, because I was
looking forward to some action finally. Unfortunately for me; the
action was lacking quite a bit. Shaky camera-work, which I guess is
meant to be artistic these days, left a lot of the killing to your
imagination. Due to lack of character building in the beginning of the
film, I didn't really mind who died, cause I didn't feel any connection
with any of the characters. On top of that; many scenes from the actual
games seem to be lacking dept, reason or logic. It was as if they went
for too many scenes in too little time. This resulted into the whole
story of the movie being kind of blur to me, and left me wondering if
there was even one there.

On a positive note; the acting was quite OK. Jennifer Lawrence
portrayed her role quite well, and her acting had nothing to do with me
not being able to relate to her character. Elizabeth Banks was
splendid, as a character that at first sight seems totally misplaced in
this world, but totally works in the way it's portrayed. 

All in all, I'll have to be fair and say I don't quite get the hype.
The movie seemed to be lacking in too many areas, in order for me to
stay interested throughout the entire two and a half hours. Not
comparing this film to Battle Royale while watching it was made quite
easy, simply because this wasn't close to being as good. A missed
opportunity for an interesting theme like this!
