
Going The Distance was far better than expected. I saw the trailer for
this movie before going to see it and I thought it looked good, but far
too often with this type of film, all the best bits are in the trailer.
This was not the case with this film, it was consistently funny, well
acted and very good in general. Drew Barrymore and Justin Long were
very believable as a couple (this may have something to do with them
being together on off in real life). I thought that each actor played
their part well, the friends of the main characters were all fantastic.
Overall, this is well worth going to see and one of the funniest
rom-coms I have seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
Just been to see this film before its official release and really,
really enjoyed it. As the trailer suggests it's about a long distance
relationship. The storyline is pretty straightforward. It's not the
type of film that will have lots of complicated twists and turns, so in
that context it's fairly predictable, but it's really well acted by the
main characters, particularly Justin Long, Drew Barrymore and Christin
Applegate. There are lots of laughs, and I mean laughing out loud, from
both the men and the women in the audience. For me it's one of the
funniest films I've seen that wasn't an out and out comedy. As the
title of this review suggests, there's something for both men and women
in this.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most real AND funny Rom/Com's that have come out of
this stale city in quite some time. Often when one of these movies come
out, hordes of women beg their beau's to come to the cinema to no
avail. luckily for us, this is a fresh new look at an otherwise female
driven genre. 

Going the Distance takes a look at long distance relationships from a
REAL perspective. None of this Hollywood glitz. None of these fairy
tale endings w/ friends who say and do what the producers hope the
audience want to hear. It's like your watching a docu-drama about funny
people. This movie showcases events how they would actually happen.
People how they'd actually talk and relationships as unpredictable as
they actually are. 

Another refreshing notion is how this movie is told, in the majority,
from the male's perspective. Not entirely, but enough. It's told from a
place where humor, booze and late night / post weekend b*tch sessions
w/ close friends and/or relatives help weave together a romantic story
in a funny way. It's just how life happens!

I've seen this movie and can contest that it is the perfect concoction
of humor, fun, romantic moments and hard R moments to make it a good
fit for most couples. And guys, this will be a great way to go see a
Romantic Comedy for your girl and get something out of it for yourself.
GIVE IT A CHANCE, AND YOU'LL BE TELLING OTHERS TO DO THE SAME.
<|_=00=_|>
Erin (Drew Barrymore) is getting a late start on her dreams. At 31,
she's finally finishing college with an internship at a New York
newspaper. With just six weeks to go before returning to San Francisco
to complete her education, she meets Garrett (Justin Long) over a
classic game of Centipede.

With similar quirky senses of humor and more than a little disarming
honesty, the two quickly pair up. From the beginning, they know that
any relationship they have is limited to the next month and a half, so
they promise to keep it light and casual. It doesn't work.

Six weeks later, Erin is packed to leave, and Garrett is pretending
that's okay. Despite their best efforts, the two are soon burning up
the phone lines between the coasts. Erin's sister, Corinne (Christina
Applegate) is dismayed knowing that a relationship over such a distance
is hard. In fact, it's all but impossible.

The plot seems very simplistic and I suppose that it is. But Garrett's
eccentric roommate Dan (Charlie Day) and Erin's sister's personality
quirks add real spice to most scenes, and the very real chemistry
between the main characters (Barrymore and Long have had a real life
on-off-on relationship) transcends the simplicity and makes Going the
Distance something more.

Barrymore, as always, is capable, and her innate sweetness shines out
from the screen. Long, perhaps best known as the "Mac guy" on those
infamous Mac/PC commercials, proves an able partner. Day is good, and
though Applegate's role is limited, she steals her scenes almost across
the board. Look also for Jim Gaffigan in a small supporting part as
Corinne's husband. His deadpan delivery is perfect.

BOTTOM LINE: Going the Distance was amusing without question. But what
made it a good movie was the fact that, for all the genuine laughs, it
quite simply rang true.

POLITICAL NOTES: None.

FAMILY SUITABILITY: Going the Distance is rated R for "sexual content
including dialogue, language throughout, some drug use and brief
nudity." While this is not a movie for small children, the tenderness
with which the central relationship is played and the integrity and
genuine caring portrayed by each half of the central couple wouldn't be
a bad lesson for teens to learn. I'd say this film is okay for teens 14
and up.
<|_=00=_|>
Drew Barrymore plays a less kooky character than usual and is all the
more likable and believable for it. I just don't quite buy Justin Long
as the leading man but his sidekicks help, particularly Charlie Day who
plays a role not that far removed from his part in the sitcom It's
Always Sunny in Philadelphia, awkward and funny. Between him and
Christina Applegate who play Drew's sister they absolutely made the
film for me.

A few downsides, Justin Long's story didn't go where the movie
signposted it might, Ron Livingston played a small cameo as his boss
and it seemed we'd get to see more of what Justin did - the bands he
didn't like vs the ones he wanted to champion but that plot line just
tailed off. At one point he's asked to look after a band definitely not
in his taste range, and you get the feeling more was shot of this but
edited out. Because of that whilst we saw him being funny and charming
I just didn't get his motivation in not moving to San Francisco. I
found the ending really weak, when you leave a rom-com you want to have
a little punch the air moment when the leads overcome their obstacles
and get together. What we got was a slightly drippy lacklustre finish.

Definitely no punch the air moment and I WANT that, no matter how sappy
or cheesy it might be. Overall I laughed quite a few times, a few
really big chuckles and even a couple of belly laughs so for that
reason I'd give it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this romantic comedy starring sometime off-screen couple
Drew Barrymore and Justin Long. She's an aspiring reporter and he's a
record company executive who's forced to guide crappy musical acts for
his label. They're forced into a long distance relationship due to
unforeseen circumstances. That's all I'll say of the story and just say
that this was quite both a ribaldry hilarious and honestly touching
movie that seem to ring true most of the time. With fine supporting
turns from Jim Gaffigan, Jason Sudeikis, and Christina Applegate, not
to mention the leads, I highly recommend Going the Distance. P.S. Nice
use of some classic '80s songs like Berlin's "Take My Breath Away" or
Bill Medley and Jennifer Warnes' "I've Had the Time of My Life".
<|_=00=_|>
"Going the Distance" is just a romantic comedy, but an adequate one.
Justin Long and Drew Barrymore have real chemistry, making it seem
fairly romantic, and Long and his friends are actually very funny men,
making the film come across as more funny and less not-funny.

I generally really like films picking simple stories and just telling
them straight. For the most part, this film did that. But here the
problem is when they bothered to include sub-plots, they were
meaningless and then dropped. This unfortunately just highlights the
poor writing. Then trying to cover up the poor writing, they added lots
of profanity and many off-topic jokes. There is no problem with
profanity, it's just that there wasn't much need for it here.

Now let's talk about jokes - which both make and break this film. It is
laugh-out-loud funny in places, and now, I am even more of a believer
that Justin Long, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day are very much
underrated, great comedic actors. Their timing was flawless and they
were even able to make lame jokes seem funny. So, yes, I laughed, but
the problem is the majority of the jokes were thrown in for the sole
purpose of a laugh, and they had little to do with the storyline of the
film. They were laugh-out-loud vulgar, not laugh-out-loud smart.

"Going the Distance" is a romantic comedy for those that like romantic
comedies. It is written better than some, and at least you are laughing
enough so you don't notice how poor it is.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just been to a premiere screening in Wimbledon and I have to say
that I had fun! The movie was funny, all characters were well written
and original - it almost felt these guys really exist somewhere there.
Garrett (Justin Long) has apparently always had problems with
commitment. And although he seems to be doing everything fine and
trying hard, looks like he cannot speak the female language at all.
Erin is only temporarily in New York. They start a no-strings-attached
relationship which quickly spirals into something deep and serious,
with nothing else being serious in the background. They realise they
are meant for each other but this is only the beginning of a long,
complicated road with obstacles like the great distance between New
York and San Francisco, longing, and juggling two priorities like love
and professional ambitions. Good jokes, hilarious situations, and a bit
of lavatorial (literally) humour, all tossed with realistic,
three-dimensional roles is a recipe for a more than average romantic
comedy (and funny at that for a change!)
<|_=00=_|>
What a surprise this movie turned out to be. Likable stars and the one
good review I read duped me into thinking I'd have a great time.

Instead, it's a stinker almost from the get-go. For a couple with major
history, Barrymore and Long have zero screen chemistry. In fact, no one
in the movie has any chemistry with anyone else. It's a case of "Let's
pretend we know each other on camera for the next several shots!" The
movie is profane - while sex talk is normal, I don't know anyone who
actually speaks the way these people speak. You grow weary of hearing
the profanity - if it were in the service of genuine comedy and laughs
it would be one thing, but there's at most two laughs to be had in this
entire misbegotten film.

A real stinker!
<|_=00=_|>
¨A comedy about meeting each other halfway. ¨ Oscar nominated
documentary director Nanette Burstein brings us ¨Going the Distance¨,
which marks the first time she directs a fictional film. It's a rom/com
that deals with long distance relationships and the screenplay was
written by first time screenplay writer Geoff LaTulippe. Justin Long
and Drew Barrymore play the two main characters who begin a no strings
attached relationship, but end up falling in love despite the fact that
Drew's character, Erin, is moving from New York to San Francisco.
Justin Long is Garrett, a guy who works in New York for a record label
and who isn't looking for a serious relationship with Erin because he
knows she is going to leave soon, but their friendship grows and love
blossoms. Both decide they can't let such a good thing end and decide
to continue their relationship despite the distance. Justin and Erin
try to make the relationship work, but they face several difficult
situations that most people who have had long distance relationships
can identify with. The movie mixes comedy with romance and at the same
time it has several situations we can identify with. Some of the
secondary characters enhance the comedy, such as Christina Applegate
who plays Erin's married sister who is very uptight and overprotective.
Charlie Day and Jason Sudeikis play Dan and Box, Garrett's best friends
who have some of the funniest lines in the movie. The chemistry between
Barrymore and Long is good and the screenplay has several funny
moments, but at the end of the film you realize you have already seen
this movie before since it ends up being pretty predictable. This is
one of those movies that had potential to be so much better, but at the
end it stuck with Hollywood's predictable rom-com formula. You might
have an enjoyable movie going experience with Going the Distance, but
it is far from memorable and by the end of the day you will have
forgotten all about it. For people who have gone through long distance
relationships and its struggles, then they may feel drawn towards it
and identify with some of the things happening, but as a comedy I was
expecting a little more.

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
