
Let me start this off by saying that I have never seen the original
Arthur. There is also no sense in me going over the plot or the
differences between this and the original because that is covered in so
many different reviews and I am guessing this isn't the only review
that you will read. I am 29 years old and I wouldn't even consider
myself a Russell Brand fan but after seeing this movie that is starting
to change. 

I went into Arthur with an open mind. I did not have another movie to
compare it to, since I didn't see the original, and I throughly enjoyed
the movie. Russell Brand was OK in 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall' and I
really didn't enjoy his movie "Get Him to the Greek" but Arthur was a
different type of comedy compared to his typical work. The best thing I
can compare this movie to is "The Wedding Singer". Not because of the
plot or the actors but because "The Wedding Singer" put Adam Sandler in
a slightly toned down more caring/romantic version of things had done
before. There was less slap stick and I actually ended up liking Adam
Sandler more because of it. The same can be said about Arthur. This
isn't OVER THE TOP Russell Brand like most of his other movies. I
wouldn't say it's 'down to earth' Russell Brand either, more like some
place in between.

Even if you have seen the original try to go to see this movie and not
compare it to the original. It's the same as The Dark Knight vs Batman
with Michael Keaton. Both were good movies but you couldn't really
compare them. 

What surprised me at the end of the movie was my brother (32 years old)
saying he actually liked this better than the original, which he
watched last weekend. He said the one liners were better and Russell
Brand made a more convincing drunk. My guess is because Russell is
probably always this drunk when he isn't filming movies!

Arthur made me laugh out loud, which is something I typically don't do.
The story was decent (typical romantic comedy) and even though the
movie slowed down about 3/4 of the way in, it had to because of the
story. Do yourself a favor and see this movie at some point. It doesn't
have to be in the theater since there aren't any eye popping sound
effects or state of the art 3D in it...(though the city of New York was
a GORGEOUS back drop)

Go see it. Turn your brain off for a bit and enjoy the movie for what
it is. Don't compare it to the original but compare it to the other
things Russell has done and you will see that he might actually have a
great future at comedy ahead of him. 

Final Verdict: 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this film was simply brilliant. The acting in it was great,
the comedic timing perfect, the script well written, and the setting
well shown. Yes, once again it is a movie set in New York, but there's
a reason why they can't having them there. It's an amazing city. And
this movie showcases that very well. I appreciated the range of humor
they had in there as well. Some of it was raunchy, and then at other
times it was mild and a relief from some of the over the top jokes. The
climax was well done, humorous yet tasteful at the same time, and the
conclusion was very appropriate. 

I heard some people complaining about how this movie was showcasing how
rich people have it made and it wouldn't be received well today because
of the economic climate. That was ridiculous. If anything, it shows how
money really can't buy happiness, and that the most important thing in
this world is that we have each other. Overall, very enjoyable film
that one should go into with an open mind and just have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Arthur, was and is a great film. It was funny, well
written and well acted. It garnered 4 Oscar nominations and 2 wins. It
won 4 out of 5 Golden Globes. John Gielgud so deserved his award so
well that year. Dudley Moore, in the title character, had the same
lovable charm that Russel Brand has in this remake. But, there are
several things missing which make the 2011 version an OK film, and not
a part of cinema awards. First, its 2011 and not 1981. The original
version would never be made today. Plain and simple. Arthur was a
drunk. A hard drinker, who fell down, slurred words,and yes, even was
driving drunk in several scenes. No way would that get approved today,
or anyone think it was funny. It was this funny drunk that made
Dudley's Arthur so much fun, even though today we would rush for
interventions or rehab. Second, the director forgot this is a New York
film. It is set in New York, but so much changed from one film to the
other that the setting was indifferent here. No more neighborhood bars,
dinners, landmark shopping sites, or eateries. There is one really good
scene involving Grand Central, but it does not make up for the lack in
the rest of the film. Linda becomes Naomi in the new film. She is not a
New Yorker. Does not look like one, or act like one. She plays the part
well, but its just not the same. Again, this remake could be set
anywhere. Can you imagine the original anywhere but NY! Third, as good
as Helen Mirrim is, she is not the Hobson that John Gielgud presented.
She will not get any awards for this presentation. So, if you do not
make any comparisons, you will like the film, but most likely not fall
in love with it for 30 years. The film is well acted, written in parts,
but it steals one lines too much from the original, that just seemed
forced here or are not well placed. Whereas we see Arthur drink, he
never really seems drunk. The relationship with Hobson is presented as
a mother/son, rather than father/son. It was hard to believe in the
relationship as much as the previous film. The chemistry between Arthur
and Naomi was believable and flow very well throughout the film. Susan
Johnson, played by Jennifer Garner had much more of a role here than
the original. It needed to be reverted back. It was just not funny.
Lastly, Nick Nolte was just plain horrible and nasty. He could have
been written out completely. It made no sense for plot development. So,
the new Arthur is as an OK remake, but not as good as it could have
been.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't jump on the bandwagon of immediately hating on a remake as
there are some great ones out there. I watched the Arthur remake as I
do like Helen Mirren a lot and I personally don't mind Russell Brand.
But I was hesitant too as to me the trailer didn't wow me over, I
didn't laugh once, and by the end of last week I was starting to get
annoyed at Offenbach's Can Can(a fun piece especially to dance and sing
along to but can get on your nerves sometimes depending on the time and
place) being played for the hundredth time.

Arthur wasn't for me quite the abomination that I heard it was, but in
all honesty I didn't see much point to it. It is better than the Psycho
and Wicker Man remakes both of which almost made me lose the will to
live, but for a good remake look towards The Thief of Baghdad, The
Magnificent Seven and especially The Thing. If I were to compare this
to the 1981 film, the 1981 film is much better being very funny and
charming and I actually preferred the much-maligned-but(in my
opinion)-better-than-its-reputation sequel over this too.

I will get the good things out of the way. I did like very much how the
film looked and the location shooting is very striking and the
soundtrack is infectious. But here come the many negatives. While I
admire that Arthur tried to stick faithfully to the original film, I
think there are times when it tries too hard and it comes off as being
too faithful. Except here while there was wit, fun and charm in the
original and in its sequel, there is not enough of that here, the
severe letdown that is the ending pretty much epitomises this. The
script is often unfunny and juvenile, severely lacking in the acidity
and drollness that worked so well before, and the gags are really quite
weak, predictable and poorly timed.

I don't mind a movie where it has moments of predictability, a lot of
movies do, but it does bother me when there are too many moments
throughout where it is. That is the case with Arthur, and I can't count
the number of times where I was saying to myself "now where have I seen
this before". Again, I don't mind when a movie show little or nothing
new, but the difference is Arthur in the end didn't make me overlook
that because it was lacking in charm.

The direction is rather poor as well, often rushed and smug, and there
were times where I felt there should be more time to breathe. And there
are some moments where there is little or no humour that are really
quite dull. The acting overall fares little better. I have to say
though Russell Brand did have very big shoes to fill and he does do an
admirable job trying to convey some spontaneous cheeky charm. The
problem is not only is his material unfunny and dreadfully weak but his
titular character clichéd and unlikeable. Arthur in the original was
clichéd in a way but I found as the film progressed you warmed to him,
here I grew tired of him.

I cannot deny that Greta Gerwig is talented, but she too is ill-served
with her material. She has no snappy lines, no funny joke, no witty gag
to write home about, so overall it was the pretty-but-bland acting
performance. I'd say the same for Jennifer Garner as well, and also
that her frothy acting style didn't entirely work within the tone and
style of the film. I was most saddened about Helen Mirren, bless her
she tries so hard, but in the John Gielgud role she can't do anything
with her lines, she has some decent delivery but there is none of the
droll and acidic quality in the one-liners to go the extra mile. Then
there are talented actors such as Nick Nolte and Geraldine James who
are largely wasted.

All in all, not an abomination but pointless. 2/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
A drunken playboy stands to lose a wealthy inheritance unless he
marries a woman he doesn't like, meanwhile he falls for tour guide that
his family doesn't approve of.

Entertaining comedy in which Russell Brand surprisingly comes across
more lovable that Dudley Moores original incarnation. There are some
genuine funny scenes notably with a magnetic bed, children's store, the
Batmobile getting pulled over (yes, really) and when Arthur goes nail
gun happy with future father-in-law Burt Johnson perfectly played by
Nick Nolte.

The realistic sets, New York setting including Grand Central Station
act as interesting backdrop that director Jason Winer full utilises.
Greta Gerwig as the love interest Naomi Quinn is on likable form while
Jennifer Garner refreshingly goes against all American girl typecast as
socialite Susan Johnson. Evander Holyfield, Luis Guzmán and Geraldine
James Geraldine James put in an appearances. Helen Mirren's Hobson is
touchingly portrayed and Mirren steals the show with her grounded and
humanistic performance.

Overall the story stinks of countless 80's rom-coms but Arthur is
entertaining nonetheless due to its nostalgic yet contemporary
reworking and Russels' engaging tongue-tied performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedies should be fun. Sometimes they can deviate from reality but the
whole premise of this movie is absurd.

Arthur was just a totally unbelievable character. Maybe it was brand,
maybe it was the script, maybe it was the director. It doesn't matter.
If we don't believe Arthur could ever be a real person then we will
never have the connection that is needed for a movie to succeed

Perhaps the people who find torture and sadism entertaining could rate
this movie highly but for the majority of the human population they
will find this a piece of trash. I am just surprised that this movie
with the deridingly unfunny revised script was ever released.
<|_=00=_|>
People go to the movies for a variety of reasons. Watching Arthur for
it's contributions to the world of cinema is probably not the reason to
spend your $10.If you want a light comedy which entertains you, then
I'd say the film definitely succeeds. But, if you take things seriously
and attempt to critique the movie,well it might be better if you rent
something from the Venice Film Festival instead. Arthur is made with a
view to entertaining it's viewers and does a pretty good job of it,IMHO
(but hey, a packed theatre of people laughing would not mean
anything,right?) What would average movie goers know about the movies?

Russel Brand doesn't attempt to copy Dudley Moore's role- he presents a
rather brattish rework to take into today's age and times.Helen Mirren
is delightful-every 30 yr old would love to have her as a nanny:) You
find yourself rooting for Arthur turning himself around to end up with
this girl he loves Naomi(Greta Gerwig)
<|_=00=_|>
Arthur ''Russell Brand'' is about the title character Arthur Bach.
Arthur is a 40ish alcoholic ultra-rich playboy who lives' by no one's
rules but his own. Arthur may be a 40 year old man on the exterior, but
underneath he's an insolent 13 year old at best. His wealth was not
earned but he none the less has access to seemingly unlimited funds via
his family's business.

After Arthurs shenanigans get to much publicity for the family business
his mother gives him the ultimatum of either marrying a rude woman who
only wants a stake in his family's business. Or simply being thrown out
on his butt with no more wealth. The choice to be made is a long and
hard one...Which is only made even harder when Arthur meets Naomi, a
cute lower middle class girl who works as an unlicensed tour guide.
Arthur falls head over heels for her and goes about making a
relationship with her...Only to later have it ruined.

...Anyway...I don't want to describe the whole movie here for you...But
that's the premise. Arthur is a good watch, Its not great and many will
argue it doesn't do the original justice...But it is entertaining and
worthy of a few good laughs. Don't cut this movie short just because
someone on the internet says it's not as good as it should be. Give it
a chance. It's an alright comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I suspect that Russell Brand is a polarising personality in this world.
Some find his idiosyncratic ways quite the put off. I, on the other
hand, have always had a soft spot for old Rusty. I find him beguiling
and very pleasant to watch.

I am not going to pontificate and deconstruct. This is a remake. I
can't remember the Dudley Moore version but all I know is that this
film was very charming. Fair enough, there are going to be no big
surprises - no epiphanic moments. But what this has in bucket loads is
a grand sense of heart. 

Russell Brand is silly but underneath the silliness there is real,
genuine stuff. You can see his heart break in a crescendo scene and if
you let yourself you'll find you become very sympathetic to this lost
boy. Jennifer Garner is scarily comfortable in the role of a-grade
beyatch! Helen Mirren is just perfect as the man boy's nanny. Look, to
be honest I am too lazy to get into nitty gritty stuff but this one is
a winner if you are open enough to admit it.

Trust me. It's lovely.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely despise Russell Brand so naturally I assumed that I would
not like this movie one bit. That, however, was not at all the case.
Sure, the movie started with Brand's typical ridiculous antics and
obnoxiousness but it turned out to be quite entertaining. Brand, for
once, was able to actually make the transition from ridiculous idiot to
still idiotic but also charming with his humor. Also, Helen Mirren
stole the movie. She is truly something else. I don't think I'd be
alone in saying she is one of the premier actresses in Hollywood. Her
character's dry humor but strength and caring shined through perfectly
and was the highlight of the film. Garner and Gerwig's characters are
also pretty interesting. Garner doesn't really step outside the box
with this performance but it was still solid. I was pleasantly
surprised with Gerwig though. I had never seen her in a meaningful role
and she was very solid in portraying her emotions. All in all the movie
was just a pretty good film and it was definitely worth watching.
