
The Terminator movies (sans TS - I am not even sure if it's part of the
cannon) are basically chase films with the element of time travel
thrown in to create unique Sci-fi protagonists and antagonists.

The first two films were smart enough to understand the limitations of
time travel as a viable "science" and hence kept the focus on it's
characters, surroundings and action (note : I do not say special
effects). T3 tried to explain away the canonical inconsistencies (eg.
it's existence) with some quantum mumbo-jumbo, but again it was kept at
a bare minimum (almost hinted), showing a self awareness from the
writers that even if you need to write stupid stuff for exposition,
it's not necessary to go full blown Shyamalan on things. Of course, T3
is nowhere clinical in it's nightmarish quality of T1 or matured enough
for the majesty of T2, but at least it looked like the people behind
the movie were trying sincerely.

TG jumps into the bandwagon of using time travel as a rebooting device,
which currently is the go-to template for many franchises (XMEN, Star
Trek). But it makes the cardinal sin of driving ALL plot elements
through this device multiple times. Hence, you are left with bizarre
recitation of quantum fields, alternate time-lines, nexuses in time
points associated with important events, all wrapped in "delivery under
60 seconds" by Arnold's "Pops" (Dear me, Arnold and Quantum Theory in
the same sentence). Mix into this Internet/Cloud/AI, phase matter, time
displacement with a dash of 12 Monkeys - all stamped with Hollywood's
grasp of "science", and you start wondering why was the Kitchen Sink
left out. 

The movie really doesn't have a plot line as such. It's feels more like
a re-edited version of separate episodes stitched into a movie, to
throw a glimpse into the life of these characters over a period of
2?3?4? days. Each day/episode starts with a shocking (read : spoiled by
trailer) reveal, followed by "scientific" explanations, followed by CGI
explosions and chase. The less said about the ending the better - the
"emotional moment" where the survivors think they will "live happily
ever after" has concrete foundations in "Marvel Studio Science" - the
current rage of Hollywood. The feeling of clunky and disjointed
adventures for our saviors of humankind is more akin to Stargate tag
line ("Saving the universe one day at a time") rather than a complete
coherent movie, even if it be a summer popcorn/potboiler/studio crash
grab event.

Now Arnold can play a terminator without getting out of bed in the
morning, and sometimes it feels exactly like that - there are many
instances where he was just disinterested in the proceedings. He also
has the onerous task of providing dumb plot expositions every time the
"plot" takes a hard right/left. One is left to wonder that with this
much encyclopedic knowledge on the universe and decades of readiness,
why he never leaned how to fist fight against his fellow 800s.

The movie might also be called "The death of Kyle Reese as we came to
love him", as Jai Courtney is probably the biggest miscast for the role
(bigger than Matthew Goode as Ozymandius in Watchmen) . Gone are
Michael Bhein's nuance portrayal of a psychologically scarred and
physically fatigued soldier doomed to a tragic fate as he tries to
fight impossible odds to save the women he loves. Instead, we have a
clean shaved and chiseled smart-ass who spends the entire movie being a
HUGE ass**** to Arnold (with multiple stare contests between him and
Arnold ALA Twilight) , and who is looking to "score" with Emilia
Clarke's Sarah (not bad in the role). Even though he says he will die
for her more than once, the delivery is just not reliable. A big
element of Reese's character in T1 was his virginity, something the
audiences gulped down because of Bhein's performance. Courtney's Reese
comes across someone who LOVES his soldier job way too much and has
tamed many members of the opposite sex. There is ZERO chemistry between
the two, and the inherent romance (which in my opinion was quite smart
in Terminator) becomes another obligatory check box for the movie to
tick. I wont even go into the "humor" between Arnold and Emilia on this
topic (borrowed from T3) that the movie tries to choke it audiences
with multiple times.

Mostly everything in the action scenes are CGI, but in majority they
are not distracting, except when they CGI-ed Arnold all over. There are
multiple chase sequences of varied length and complexities - not bad,
but nothing we haven't seen before in other movies.

Twice we hear Fidel's epic Drumbeats from the Terminator theme, but
that's it. Rest of the soundtrack is so off, that these two instances
come more like a reminder of the good times we had decades ago, while
TG gleefully murders everything that was great about T1 and T2 (come to
think of it, T3 is a masterpiece compared to this). The final nail in
the coffin - "Bad Boys" playing in the background as characters get
their mugshots (don't ask).
<|_=00=_|>
The Terminator franchise started with a low-budget thriller film that
introduced a very interesting and compelling story about a woman who is
a target of a ruthless man from the future that turns up to be a
cyborg. It was a simple yet good story and a good piece of science
fiction. Why was it a good film? Well, for starters, the bad guy, i.e
the terminator, according to Kyle Reese, doesn't feel pain or pity,
can't be reasoned with, can't be bargained with. It was the perfect
killer, and almost invincible. So there you got all the elements of a
good story.

Then came Terminator 2: Judgement day. Here things start to get weird
with the new T-1000, because it was the result of CGI of that time. The
whys and hows of the T-1000 were cleverly hidden away and never
discussed. The story was good: here Sarah Connor wants to change
history and the new terminator ends up showing a window of opportunity.

T3 came along and stuff started to crumble. T3 makes no sense. A
seemingly old terminator that goes back because a "more advanced" (and
absurd) terminator came to yet again kill John Connor. They used
preposterous ideas justified by the fact that it is a "fiction" film
(i.e the stuff about controlling automobiles with a "virus": cars don't
work like that). Well, even fiction must be based on some rules, and T3
simply disregards these rules, and that is what makes it so bad.

Salvation came and it was good. Honestly, I don't see why people freak
out about Salvation, because it was consistent, it makes actual sense.
It looks like a war zone between our present and that future we see in
the first films. There are no crazy liquid-metal things this time, only
"normal" cyborgs and there were very nice references to the first two
films. I have no idea why people hate it. It is not a thriller, but
action, but then T3 isn't a thriller either, nor is T2, so that is a
very bad reason to hate TS.

And now came Genisys, with the typo in the name.

The film starts with a disturbing change: the judgment day occurred,
apparently, in 1997. It means that the whole second film was thrown in
the rubbish bin. Sarah's efforts were pointless, apparently Skynet
wasn't destroyed after all. But maybe I was confused, so I'll just
ignore this and move on.

The film introduces an interesting idea: since the future already
changed before, Skynet was aware of John's plan to send Kyle Reese and
attacks him (John) before he tears the time machine apart, altering the
whole story.

But this leads to a series of confusing events that end up having a
terminator sent to kill Sarah when she was 9 and another to protect
her. Then the "good" terminator ends up "raising" Sarah to have the
face of Emilia Clarke instead of Linda Hamilton and both prepare for
the arrival of a disturbingly different Kyle Reese in 1984.

Then appears the original terminator, apparently unaware it was not the
first assigned to kill Sarah, and a T-1000 was apparently sent to kill
Kyle (it is never explained who was the target).

Then instead of waiting for the right time, Emilia Clarke decides to
build a time machine and go to 1997 stop Skynet. But Kyle, as explained
by some pseudo-science theory, has memories of an alternate childhood
(go figure), and knows Skynet goes berserk in 2017. So they go to 2017
and find out that there is this software which is a mixture of Apple,
Google and Facebook called Genisys that for no reason is being used on
mobiles, hospitals, and even the army and is going to be "available" at
precisely the time of judgment day, even though it is already being
used.

John Connor shows up in 2017 looking like Jason Clarke, and we assume
he was cast because he shares the same surname with Emilia, and he is a
cyborg because Skynet itself was contained inside a cyborg and it
managed to replace every cell in John Connor for nano-technology. He
wants to turn his parents into machines and he inexplicably not only
defends Skynet, but he created Genisys himself.

So John Connor is the bad guy! And he is a terminator who created
Skynet! Schwarzenegger tries to kill him, but Sarah points a gun to
his... head, and.. it makes no sense.

They then invade this company that developed Genisys and end up
stumbling on the same computer interface used in Resident Evil: Skynet
for some reason has several projectors in the place with the hologram
of a child that tries to convince the heroes that they are doomed and
you wonder why Skynet wastes time talking to them if it really thinks
that, but the holograms make funny noises when they cross the light and
you give up trying to understand.

In the end Schwarzenegger kills Jason Clarke by getting into this
unfinished time-machine with a giant magnet, while Kyle and Sarah
explode the building, but in the last second Schwarzenegger falls into
the metal goo that would be the T-1000s and even though a T-1000 cannot
emulate complex machinery because it has moving parts and all that
(check T2), he inexplicably blends just fine with the goo and becomes
"updated". Oh, that trick is used before too. So even though stuff
exploded, the terminator "survives".

So the film ends leaving a feeling of "what the hell I just saw", and I
wonder why people find this any better than T3 and why Terminator
Salvation is considered worse. It is beyond me. Really people,
something is wrong here.

So if you like Terminator, go see it. If you liked Salvation, I'm so
sorry, but it didn't turn into a trilogy and they just "terminated" a
good project.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so disgusted with this movie and its rating that I have decided to
sign up here for the first time and write my opinion. There is no way
this movie is a 7.0/10. Not even close and it never will be. If this is
a 7.0 then Salvation is a 14.0/10. James Cameron should be ashamed for
even entertaining the idea that this movie is good. He has made me
realize that everyone can be bought for the right amount. I hope he got
paid a lot of money to say "If you are a terminator fan, you will love
this movie", because he has lost a lot of respect with that statement.
Hope it was worth it James!

I waited for this movie every day counting down as the days go by. I
went to see it with my wife and I felt sorry for her she had to sit
through the eye ball torture. I wanted to walk out a couple of times
after countless cheesy jokes and terrible acting but I didn't. I
thought I would stick through it because it has to get better until I
witnessed the helicopter scene. At that moment I realized that the
terminator franchise is nothing more than a childhood dream. Anyone who
rated this movie above 3 stars on here is either getting paid by
someone or 13 years old since after all it was a PG-13 movie.

Terminator 1 was good. I rate 8/10.

Terminator 2 was great. I rate 9/10.

Terminator 3 was decent, hated the overly futuristic female T-X. Ending
was good and we finally see Judgement Day. I rate 6/10.

Salvation was good once you got passed Bale's Batman voice. At least it
was getting into the future war and heading the right direction after
T3. No fancy robots, just cold steel cyborgs with one acceptable twist
(Marcus). The T600 was awesome. I rate 7/10.

Than comes Genisys, a Saturday Night Live skit at best. Was this a
wannabe comedy or a terminator movie? We have a Kyle Reese that is
cocky and looks like he should be the Terminator. Probably worst acting
I have seen in a movie. We have John Connor that is some weird
combination of human/nano technology/robot/liquid metal that is so far
out there that it is stupid. Yes, stupid. We have the new Sarah which
is not so bad other than the weird interactions between her and Kyle.
It was awkward at best. We have Pops who is the terminator who is a
father figure and competes with Kyle for his "daughter's" approval. He
awkwardly smiles a lot and repeats the same punch lines over and over
as if we didn't get it the first 6 times. It is border line offensive
to average human intelligence. Add to that ridiculous scenes like the
helicopter chase towards the end which defies logic and I am ready to
question anyone's intelligence who rates this movie as anything above a
joke.

Some people say "it was a fun summer flick, lighten up and just enjoy
it for the action". What action? The crap CGI all over and helicopters
from starwars? The T800s looked better in the originals. I wanted to
enjoy it and went in with an open mind not expecting much but I wasn't
prepared for what I actually witnessed. It was the worst summer flick I
have ever seen that has actually insulted me for wanting to watch it.
(if that's even possible) It was a joke and a mockery at best. It can't
be taken seriously even if you wanted to. It fails at being a
terminator movie. It fails at being a "true sequel to T1&T2". It fails
at being funny. It fails at having ground breaking CGI. If fails at
having a story. It fails at character development. It fails at having
good sound effects. The music is TERRIBLE! It even destroys the
prequels timelines which I don't care for really if it was good. It has
nothing going for it. I walked out of the theater dumbfounded at what I
have just watched. My wife laughed at me and said "this is what you
waited for all these months? WOW. Terminator 2 is still my favorite."
<|_=00=_|>
Against all odds I was amazed I made it to the end of this movie. I
only wish I could go back in time and tell my wife to talk me out of
the suggestion I made to see Terminator Genisys. The original
Terminator movie is a cult classic and yes, the remade scenes
entertained me on a nostalgia level but as for the rest of the script,
it played out like an episode of neighbours. The acting was terrible,
the casting was terrible, the action sequences...If I said, give me
$170 million dollars for me to take a dump and then I'll feed it to the
masses and make a profit, you'd think I was insane - yet Hollywood does
it again. Another 3 dimensional turd (yes I sadly paid the extra for
the 3D which only really amounted to feeling like someone was actually
shi**ing in my face) served up for the intellectually bereft to eat
popcorn too. I don't know where these great reviews are coming from,
but they're certainly not from Ireland, because in my cinema there was
a general feeling of agitation and boredom about an hour into the
movie. 

It felt like Arnie was trying to save the movie by explaining the plot
to us, which simply didn't come together, as well as trying to plead
with us that his acting days weren't over, even if they were limited to
playing an emotionless robot - i.e. the role he has played in all his
movies since the 80s.

So here's the spoilers, if you can call them that:

If I knew that a computer programme was being developed that was going
to cause the end of humanity, or at least try to and I had a time
machine that would enable me to "destroy skynet before it's born" would
I really jump to just 24 hours before Judgement Day? I think I may have
had the foresight to nip it in the bud a bit earlier.

If I was in a bus that flipped and was completely mangled, hanging off
a bridge, and I was initially sitting in a passenger seat without a
seat belt, I would expect...well..I wouldn't expect anything, I'd be
dead. Hardened soldier as he is though, Kyle Reece steps out with the
obligatory scratch on his forehead. At one point I thought they were
going to reveal that they were all T1000's, the amount of physical
abuse they could take.

If I could essentially break myself into a floating atomic state, I
wouldn't then spend my time struggling to pull myself off a lamp-post
through my guts - I would simply float round it, or at least open up
the hole so I could walk away without a struggle.

If I was a hardened female self made soldier, I would expect that I
would show some signs of physical fitness and muscular definition -
sorry Emilia, but if the fate of humanity rested on you even being able
to act like a militaryesque hero, I'd be guessing it was game over. She
looked like she was struggling to run with the props. And yes I know
"militrayesque" is not a word, so give it 3 minutes after reading this
and it will probably appear in a US dictionary.

If I had created an explosion that was enough to liquidate an entire
compound around me, I doubt I would put my faith in a steel door to
save me from the blast. Especially one that a sword handed T1000 has no
problem puncturing with with his sword hands.

I could go on...and on.

As for the chemistry between the two leads, if there was a formula for
this and we could create a bomb with it to be used on "Judgement Day",
the fallout would turn everyone into Keanu Reeves, or Pinocchio.

Just awful.

All I can say is that all of you so called fans of the original that
loved this movie, must have been the result of a 70's fertility drug
gone wrong. Seriously, watch it again with your brain stem attached and
tell me this even comes close to quality cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
The new Terminator wasn't terrible! I'm surprised. Though it had its
flaws it was much better then Terminator 3 and Salvation... and I
actually enjoyed it mostly. I probably won't be watching it like 30
times like Judgement Day, but its not like I expected it to ever live
up to Cameron's work....

First off, the action was good and so was the pace, the film never
became boring even with how complex the story was so it certainly gets
points for that.

The film itself runs like the greatest hits of the the franchise which
is both good and bad. 

The pros: Revisiting 1984 (the first terminator timeline) was a lot of
fun for obvious reasons.. You get more things like crazy manoeuvres
from the T1000 etc and Arnie gets to kick some ass and even be funny at
times....

The cons: How many times do they have to repeat lines from the previous
films? Sarah Conner says: "Come with me if you want to live" Really?
Again? Really? Come on, having that as an obligatory line in each movie
is actually annoying. "I'll be back" is just like an obligatory oh,
we'll just squeeze that in there, the audience will love that! Nope,
not really, see in the first Terminator that had impact! Like the
impact of a car coming through the wall! This is there just for the
sake of it...

Aside from that, I think JK Simmons character was borderline pointless,
you could nearly have cut him out of the movie and barely noticed! A
crying shame for such an excellent actor.. Generally the script could
have done with more tweaking, some plot towards the end just seemed
outright silly, but I will say the chemistry between Arnie and Emilia
was actually pretty good! 

Overall: It's no Judgement day but you know what, it was actually a
decent film and it was great to see Arnie as the Terminator again, and
not saying "talk to the hand" . I can see why James Cameron endorsed
this as the true sequel to T2...
<|_=00=_|>
I am a massive Terminator 1 and 2 fan, I disliked 3 and 4 a lot and I
really thought this would be terrible as well! 

However I turned out to be wrong! Dead Wrong! 

This film has the best Arnold character of them all! He is the most
'human' towards Sarah and I really loved that connection, I can see
many people liking it also. It was reminiscent of John Connor and
Arnold from T2 which I just saw today... I remember seeing the first
trailer and having many problems. I thought the story line was too
complicated and wasn't respectful of the older films and I thought the
visuals were bad. 

I was wrong in both cases. The story pays massive respect to James
Camerons first two classics! And it wasn't complicated for me. It was a
fun story and kept my eyes on the screen. Also the visuals... wow the
visuals... I know people said that we will never be shocked again by
visuals like we were in T2 and the first Jurassic Park! But the young
T800 looks too good to ignore. Wow! The best animation I've ever seen,
I can't see the difference between him and the real one. 

This is a fun, humorous, emotional action flick that shouldn't be
ignored! I loved it! And you know what, I'm not ashamed! Alan Taylor
deserves praise! 

P.S. I love the soundtrack, I hand it to Lorne Balfe who I know makes
great soundtracks from Assassins creed!
<|_=00=_|>
What is there to say? A quick summery: Everything is over the top.
Instead of using one good idea like T1 and T2 they try to cram as many
(bad) ideas as possible into one movie. 

We get like 4 terminators, 3 time machines, 3 time periods, an app that
is about to take over the world, nonstop cheesy one liners, to many
'funny' moments, to many plot twists. Ridiculous characters. A high
school princess as Sarah Connor. B-grade acting. Generic action. A
senior terminator attempting comedy.

The worst part: it has no tension buildup at all. What made T1 and T2
such great movies was the suspense of being chased by one (not 3)
almost completely indestructible machine. That haunting feeling, done
so well in the past, is totally missing. Overall it felt more like a
poorly executed attempt at comedy with a convoluted mess of a plot. 

This is a new low point in the franchise with a terminator named 'pops'
saying awkward lines and doing creepy smiles. This is Terminator for
the marvel generation. Braindead entertainment at its finest. Sadly a
growing trend in Hollywood.

Please tell me this was just a fan made parody and the actual movie is
still under development, right?
<|_=00=_|>
The story contains the existence of alternate timelines but if they
exist you can have as many timelines as you want and the story will
never end. Winning the battle against Skynet would mean nothing because
the characters can travel back in time and it can happen all over
again, forever and ever. 

Everything that happened in Terminator 1-5 will just be one of those
timelines and anything can be changed at any time, including a win
against Skynet if it ever happens. Also Terminator 1 didn't even need
to happen if the Guardian could successfully protect Sarah Connor. Oh
right, it's just an alternate timeline, so what's the point? Just
create 20 or 30 timelines if you want the franchise to go on forever.
<|_=00=_|>
There is really nothing to say about this film besides that it's a
complete slap in the face to anyone who is a fan of the Terminator
franchise. The plot is very tedious and the script is poorly thought
out. For instance, nothing in this movie makes any sense whatsoever.
And oh yes, I am going to spoil it for some folks.

Basically, we have Kyle Reese sent by John Connor back in time to save
Sarah Connor. But then, Sarah rescues Kyle, and is protected by a
terminator dubbed "Pops" who saved her as a child. So Kyle, Sarah and
Pops plot to prevent Judgement Day from ever happening. Apparently,
"Genisys" was a project said to change the world, but it was really
Skynet and was to bring forth Judgement Day. On top of that, John
Connor turns out to be the bad guy, as he got attacked as he was
sending Kyle, and then becomes something more than man and machine.
Apparently, John is not Earth's hope but Skynet's hope. What? That is
just stupid.

Even for a time travel story it is incredibly illogical. In a world
where time travel is possible, I am sure that time can be re-written in
a way, but you have got to have logic. This "time travel" movie defies
logic in every possible way.

It's like, the whole thing revolved around John Connor, and Kyle,
Sarah, and Pops successfully stopped Judgement Day. After all of that,
Why would Sarah decide to have a John Connor? And if Sarah decides not
to have a John Connor, then Kyle Reese would not have been sent back in
the first place, and there would be no Terminators sent to kill Sarah.
All of these changes in time would cause a paradox.

It is also horribly miscast. Emilia Clarke, Jai Courtney, and Jason
Clarke did not play their roles very well and they can barely act.
Arnold Schwarzenegger, J.K. Simmons, Matt Smith and that kid (whatever
his name is) who played young Kyle Reese are the only cast members who
could act and were not completely miscast.

Not even the special effects are good. Basically, it relies very
heavily on CGI effects and it is very fake looking. The CGI in
Terminator 2: Judgement Day looked great and was very impressive. But
here, it is just very unbelievable and looks like a bad video game.

It also had an attempt at comedy that did not work. For example, what
was with that Grin that Pops often made. Was that supposed to be funny?
I loved the first Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgement Day. Heck, I
even enjoyed Rise of the Machines and Salvation for what they are. But
Genisys was just a terrible mess and an insult to the franchise.

Overall, I hated Terminator Genisys and I would not recommend it. If
you are a Terminator fan, you will not like this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I may be one of the flock, but I am a big fan of the Terminator
franchise. This movie was appropriately delivered to fans of the
franchise more than the prior 2 sequels. Arnold was Arnold and
genuinely looked like he was having fun with the role. The story to me
was pretty well written and despite lots of turns along the way, was
engaging. There was plenty of comic relief. The battle scenes play
homage to the aesthetic and look of the future wars in the 1st two
movies.

Emilia Clarke did a pretty good job of playing Sarah Connor although
she might have been a little softer looking than Linda Hamilton, I
think the justification of the plot makes you understand a little more
of how and why she is the way she is.

I'll tell you what they didn't do in this film. They didn't go and
screw up the source material like the Star Trek reboots have. This
story plays out a different scenario but the characters both old and
new are familiar and this movie was done very well with respect to the
source materials. If you are a fan of the franchise, you'll feel like
you are getting more of what you might have had to imagine way back in
the 1984 film. You'll enjoy it. 

Any fan of T1 and T2 should go and see this and add it to your library.
