
First of all I want to say this, I really like animation films and I
actually liked this more than the first Happy Feet. The characters felt
more developed and they went through a more interesting journey. This
film aims to tell to children not to lie and how important the
friendship is. However I have been astonished when I have seen rude
comments on Happy Feet 2. I think people are being too harsh on this
movie. Some critics refused to look deeper because this is not their
usual type of child animation film. I am actually shocked while reading
some of the scathing reviews. Also, I think people are being too
hypercritical because the first Happy Feet won the Oscar. I loved this
movie and I found it far superior to Rango, Gnomeo & Juliet and Cars 2.
The animation was amazing. In my opinion, it has the best production
values and cinematography of any animated film of 2011, I have watched
lately. The story is in-depth, layered, complex and much more
meaningful than the first Happy Feet. Also, there are significant
themes and messages about community, teamwork, bravery, overcoming
obstacles and environmentalism. I laughed, cried and felt such empathy
for these penguins because this movie has a lot of soul and heart.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie at a close preview in TIFF, Toronto. I really
like it, for it brings a fresh wave with it's story, characters and
overall look. A lot of animation movies nowadays share quite a similar
way of storytelling, and that's where Happy Feet 2 stands out from the
crowd. Characters of Matt Damon and Brad Pitt worked out really well.
Graphics and effects look really awesome. George Miller commented on
the amount and complexity of those effects by saying that their render
farms almost crashed in the process. Also I'd like to comment on 3D
part of the movie, because it does really work out here, looks
beautiful with 3d glasses on - gives real depth, really amazing
experience. And I can't say the same for a lot of 3D movies that are
out there. I would definitely recommend this movie, for Happy Feet 2
will be interesting for both children and adults.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to seeing this film and it did not
disappoint. Although Happy Feet Two was not as good as its
Oscar-winning predecessor, there were still plenty of toe-tapping
moments. I liked the fact that the songs were recognizable. I am sure
that L. L. Cool J is just tickled pink that they included his "Mama
Said Knock You Out". In this film Mumble (Elijah Wood) is all grown up
and learning how to be a better father to his son Erik (Ava Acres).
Erik was just the cutest little thing and he pulls at your
heart-strings right from the beginning. The main story line was a good
one, but I think that I found the story between Bill the Krill (Matt
Damon) and Will the Krill (Brad Pitt) even more entertaining. Those two
had their own thing happening. I liked the way that the writer (George
Miller) had two stories going on at the same time and the fact that
they blended together in the end was excellent. I think that you have
to have a lot going on to keep the attention of kids these days. I did
not see this film in 3D, but you could tell by some of the scenes that
the price of a 3D ticket might have been worth it for this film. The
animation in this film was simply stunning. Animation has come a long
way since Casper the Friendly ghost (I'm dating myself, huh?) Anyway,
it was great. It was also refreshing to see the development of numerous
female characters in this film such as Gloria (Pink) and Carmen (Sofia
Vergara). I have to give props to the ladies. Robin William's
character, Ramon had me cracking up throughout the film. It is not
surprising that Robin really knows how to make his characters stand out
since he has done numerous voice projects in the past (Genie in the
Aladdin films, Dr. Know in A.I. and Fender in Robots). This film
contains numerous life-lessons that I think that the target audience
will understand (one person can make a difference, keep your promises,
don't run away from home, etc.). If you enjoyed the first Happy Feet,
then you will also enjoy this one (just not as much). Anyway, I say put
on your dancing shoes, shake a tail feather and go out and see this
film. I am giving this film a green light.
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Feet is definitely one of those films that doesn't need a sequel
but it has a purpose to give us an environmental message and that
message became the main plot of this film. But for some reason, it's
unnecessary. Extraneous characters like the Krills. There's nothing
much to do with this. Just a lot of unnecessary things scattered
throughout. The visuals are largely stunning and still has its powerful
tone but even with those things, it still falls short.

The first Happy Feet movie sets with a powerful tone and an absurd but
interesting premise. That was acceptable as a penguin movie. Happy Feet
2 has its similarity with the first one by the father-son relationship.
The rest is all about the crisis of the climate change but unnecessary
things are happening especially with the two Krills, Will and Bill.
They appear like Scrat from the Ice Age series. They are funny though
but again, unnecessary.

The film itself is also unnecessary. The problem of Mumble's tap
dancing was already solved. They lived happily ever after in Antarctica
since the "aliens" moderated their fishing. The climate change is a
really good idea. But after the movie, it feels like it's just another
sequel. Well, the movie never fails to its cast. Elijah Wood and Robin
Williams did the same thing in the first movie but still good in this
sequel. The newbies, Brad Pitt and Matt Damon are both fun even though
they are playing the most extraneous characters of the film. Pink and
Common are good replacements. What happened to Fat Joe? And the last
but never the least is Hank Azaria who nearly steals the show.

The movie gives some nostalgia and powerful tone from the first movie
but it doesn't help at all but the visuals are really stunningly
beautiful. Keeps the film large and worth it to the cinema and 3D.
Realistic textures to make it look like it's Animal Planet but the
elephant seals looks cartoony in some part but it's still good to look
at. The songs are decent.

There are only two reasons why this exists. Environmental Propaganda
and money. It's the 21st Century of Hollywood and they are somewhat
running out of ideas. With all of their technology and talented
filmmakers, they can make as many unnecessary sequels as they want. The
Environmental Message is stuck in the plot but there is nothing wrong
with that. Happy Feet 2 is not a bad movie. It's just unnecessary.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this today with two of my younger sisters, one of whom
regarded the first movie as her "favorite movie ever" (before Kung Fu
Panda came out) and was really excited for this sequel. As soon as the
credits rolled, she commented "That was... off."

(Spoilers! Spoilers! Spoilers!) First of all I'd say that the visuals
were amazing as before, as well as the music and choreography. But the
plot... it reminded me of how I used to put my iPod on shuffle and make
up stories to go with it. A whole musical number just to calm upset
Erik down? A bunch of elephant seals singing while stampeding? I was
generally surprised and not sure I should be humored or facepalming at
the inclusion of "Never Gonna Give You Up" and "Dragostei Din Tei." I
mean did I really have to get rickrolled by krill?

Oh and the krill. I kinda sorta liked the idea, but their almost
pointless side-story had me rolling my eyes. The audience we were with
seemed to like them, though, and laughed every time they appeared. So I
guess YMMV.

There were WAY too many accents and half the script was lost on me as I
tried to process what each person was saying, having to quickly switch
from American to Spanish to Swedish (Romanian?) to Indian, etc.

The environmental message was even more heavy-handed this time (tufted
puffins apparently all killed off, oils spills, global warming, etc.) I
agree we should be concerned with these, but the constant shoving of it
in your face makes you numb to the idea. This is coming from an
environmentalist.

That said, there were a bunch of things that bothered me that PROBABLY
wouldn't bother most people. Like why there were African Black-footed
Penguins (Africa) and Little Blue Penguins (Australia and New Zealand)
living with the Adeles? Or why Mumble is still fuzzy after having
almost lost all his down in the first movie. Or why Eric has all of the
same markings as his father and is the ONLY blue-eyed penguin aside
from his father. Is he retarded too? Did they just run out of character
design ideas?

All of this, plus the plot not really picking up until about a third of
the way through the movie, bothered me... but it was kinda okay. Again,
the visuals were great and I very much enjoyed the music. The penguins
and other animals were fun to watch and for the most part realistic. I
was dancing along to the big dance numbers and thought the reveal of
Erik's talent was awesome (even if it sounded like an opera singer
inhaling helium).

So, sure, if you want something energetic and cute to sit your kids
down in front of, be my guest. I might even watch it again, if I can
get around the dead plot and nature issues. It's fun and pretty to look
at. Just shows what a superficial, visual race we are.
<|_=00=_|>
Mumble, The Master of Tap, has a problem because his tiny son, Erik, is
choreo-phobic. Reluctant to dance, Erik runs away and encounters The
Mighty Sven: a penguin who can fly! Mumble has no hope of competing
with this charismatic new role model. But things get worse when the
world is shaken by powerful forces. Erik learns of his father's "guts
and grit" as Mumble brings together the penguin nations and all manner
of fabulous creatures-from tiny Krill to giant Elephant Seals, to put
things right. -- (C) Warner Bros

I thought HAPPY FEET was pretty great. The film was foot-tapping fun
and the dark turn it took in the third act, while unexpected, made it
edgy and different for me. When a sequel was announced, I thought it
seemed unnecessary. How far can you really stretch the premise of
penguins who can dance and sing? Apparently, not that far. After
viewing the sequel, it very much does seem unnecessary and wholly
forgettable within ten minutes after you walk out of the theater, which
is disappointing to say the least. Other than this, the main problem
with HAPPY FEET 2 is that there aren't that many good musical numbers
as compared to the first one. Most of them are pretty mediocre.
However, there are probably around three that range from good to great,
one of which uses the song "Under Pressure," which is easily the best
number in the entire film.

Another problem I had was the dark tone of the film. It's a bit TOO
dark, if you ask me. You see the younger penguin characters constantly
be put in danger which made the film very uncomfortable to watch, and
what these characters go through in the film would probably traumatize
them for life. The film also suffers from messy storytelling. For
example, the subplot with the shrimp characters (voiced by Matt Damon
and Brad Pitt) seems to come from nowhere and is out of place from the
rest of the film. It also doesn't help that the characters are so damn
annoying. As for the 3D, it's put to good use in some places but,
overall, it's really unnecessary. The one good thing I can say about
the film is the look of it, which is very beautiful. I also liked Pink
a lot, who gives a boost for all the musical numbers she sings in,
along with Robin Williams, who has a few great jokes up his sleeves.

Overall, HAPPY FEET 2 is a disappointment considering that I am a fan
of the first film. Director George Miller doesn't seem to have his
heart in the right place for this sequel compared to the first film.
However, the film is slightly better then CARS 2 if that says anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Feet 2 is amazing. As a 12 year-old, I suppose I haven't watched
even a total of 30 movies or such to rate this as 10 but in my opinion,
Happy Feet 2 is almost as good as the first. It contains the hilarity
and also amazing songs, similar to Happy Feet 1. I watched this movie
with about 19 of my classmates and two of my teachers as a farewell on
our graduation from school. When Erik started singing to the elephant
seal, the scene itself was so sad I couldn't help but start crying. And
I love those two krill, Bill and Will if I'm not mistaken...One asked
the other of they could have children and the other replied that they
were both males. Hilarious! My favourite quote "We're doomed and
they're dancing. Unbelievable!" I recommend this movie to others
because I enjoyed, became emotional and had a lot of fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Promoting responsibility to children is a great idea, however
personification of penguins by having them talk while watching real
footage of people eating chicken is a subliminal mind-game. The
connection smooths the black and white into a grayish-sick.

The subject of the movie is far too deep for the young to understand,
and too immature for the adults to enjoy; this movie sits on neither
side of the fence, but sort of has a post up the middle! (Unpleasant)
The voices and star's voices of Matt Damon, Robin Williams, Pink, etc.
is what sold me. The cute pictures of penguins sold my kids, who lost
interest after the third song... not at all the first Happy Feet. :(
The producers need to do a serious sit-and-think before dragging the
incredible first picture through another slaughter by creating a third.
<|_=00=_|>
It is very difficult to make an entertaining movie that has a lesson in
the consequences of climate change on the Antarctic wildlife, just as
it is always hard to live up to the original when you're a sequel. This
sequel made the lesson entertaining but the film did not live up to the
original. I really enjoyed the original and watched it many times over,
I'm not so sure I would do the same with Two. The lesson in Happy Feet
was clear cut and the scandalous humans did try to resolve the atrocity
of depleting the penguins food source, but in Happy Feet Two nothing
was really clear except that the polar icecaps are melting and now the
Emperor penguins fully accept song and dance. Mumble (Elijah Wood) and
Gloria (P!nk) now have had an egg of their own, and are now parents to
Erik (Ava Acres). Mumble is challenged to be a good father and Erik is
on a path of self discovery. The role of Gloria is filled nicely, her
singing prowess made the opening Rhythm Nation production amazing, it
was actually the most outstanding compilation in the entire film and
would have been more fitting as the grand finale song. I unlike Catt
was not thrilled by the krill, I have yet to figure out what the krill
was the point of the krill storyline with Bill the Krill (Matt Damon)
and Will the Krill (Brad Pitt) other than to add some big names to the
film since Norma Jean (Nicole Kidman) and Memphis (Hugh Jackman) did
not reprise their roles. I really liked what was happening with Ramon
(Robin Williams) in this story, with the whole hatin' on The Mighty
Sven (Hank Azaria) while pursuing Carmen (Sofia Vergara), the chase
could have been expanded in place of the krill story filler. The movie
just seemed to have a number of encounters loosely strung together with
no outstanding purpose of it all, unlike the original with the fact
that different can be the one thing that saves everybody. Maybe the
message of this film was if humans venture to aid the wildlife and we
don't succeed, they'll figure out a resolution to their problem
themselves. Or when everyone works together to deal with a problem no
matter how big or how small you are you can overcome any obstacle. Or
maybe I just didn't get the point, which is why this film gets an amber
light.
<|_=00=_|>
The penguins' and the people's feet and vocal cords are starting to
hurt - because they tried to tap dance and sing through a movie that
had exhausted its potential. The first film told us everything we
needed to know about a such a wonderful world. Now unfortunately, this
sequel has become so "been there done that", it should be changed to
"Unhappy Feet 2"

The worst parts: Mumble's son Erik can't sing or dance, but suddenly he
sings at the precise moment where a situation seems impossible, and it
becomes suddenly possible again. Ramone and Lovelace's characters were
made smaller so a new character with no depth could come in action. The
specially made songs for the movie (Bridge of Light) made little sense
with the movie, despite how beautiful they were. And finally, the whole
plot about the unavailability of the fish had already been done before.

Overall, I was very disappointed after waiting so long to see the
sequel, and finding out that this was all they came up with. Some songs
were good, especially Under Pressure and Dragostea Din Tei, but nothing
in the movie captured the magic of the first one.
