
Bravo to Steve Bernstein for making this important film that starts the
conversation about hereditary cancer. Bernstein manages to weave the
"remarkable" Annie Parker's personality and humor throughout this film
of serious subject matter; ultimately providing bursts of laughter just
when you are thinking you might need to reach for that huge
handkerchief to wipe your tears. "A" rated performances from Samantha
Morton (Annie) and Aaron Paul. Rashida Jones shines brightly in her
supporting role. Heartfelt, humorous, and honest...you will go home
thinking about your family and family history. Knowing it is a true
story, you will find yourself thinking about the "real" Annie Parker
and her incredible spirit--at the very least, for the rest of your
week.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has it all! Humorous, heart-touching, authentic performances
of the real life struggles of genius geneticist Dr. Mary-Claire King in
her tireless efforts to find the genetic link in breast and ovarian
cancer--the BRCA gene--and Canadian Annie Parker, a young woman who
must face one of the greatest fears of all women. Samantha Morton's
portrayal of Annie Parker is brilliant, heart-felt and sometimes,
painfully real.

I've seen the movie three times, and each time I get more from it.
Helen Hunt's performance of Dr. King is right on target, and the entire
cast adds even more depth, warmth and personality to this important
work. Steven & Adam Bernstein's script, Steven's direction, excellent
cinematography, and an all-star cast combine to create a film that is
exploding the awareness of people around the world in a way that both
entertains and educates.

On top of that, this movie is changing lives every day. Audiences are
giving it standing ovations, and for the next several months at least,
the producers have authorized charitable screenings of the movie to
raise awareness and funds for breast and ovarian cancer research and
patient support. It couldn't be any better! CONGRATULATIONS to all
involved.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently had the opportunity of seeing Decoding Annie Parker at a
charity benefit screening. It's a heart felt, inspirational movie about
the journey of a cancer survivor and the scientist who discovered the
gene mutation responsible for hereditary breast cancer. (The same gene
mutation Angelina Jolie has). A tough subject handled deftly by the
film maker. The story is an accurate and truthful depiction of a cancer
patient's journey and had the audience both laughing and crying and
eventually left them feeling uplifted and hopeful. No melodrama here.
The acting performances were superb especially those of Samantha Morton
who plays the cancer survivor and Aaron Paul who plays her husband.
Helen Hunt was as always terrific. Rashida Jones was great too. Kudos
to the film makers for making a movie on this subject which has
unfortunately effected too many families.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Steven Bernstein's feature debut, which he co-wrote with his
son Adam Bernstein and physician Dr. Michael Moss, is based on two true
stories and weaves together the fifteen year journeys of two women both
struggling to overcome insuperable odds. Annie Parker (Samantha Morton)
is on intimate terms with breast cancer, having watched both her mother
and sister succumb to it. When she herself is diagnosed with the cruel
disease, she bravely struggles to hold herself and her family together,
displaying a force of will that contradicts the odds. Meanwhile,
geneticist Dr. Mary-Claire King (Helen Hunt) is researching the
hereditary link between DNA and breast cancer, a process that finds her
scrambling for both funding and the support of her disbelieving
colleagues. How the paths of these two women intersect is funny,
irreverent, and heartwarming without sentimentality or melodrama.
Bernstein, both in his direction and writing, deftly balances the
seriousness of the situation with the all too human response, finding
unpredictable grace notes of beauty and wit during even the darkest of
times. Featuring award worthy performances by Morton, Hunt, and an
equally impressive supporting cast including Aaron Paul, Rashida Jones,
Alice Eve, Bradley Whitford, and Maggie Grace, Bernstein's film pays
tribute to one of the most important scientific discoveries of the 20th
century as well as the people forever changed in its wake.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an extremely powerful movie filled with compassion and humor.
The movie provide deep insight into the emotions of those battling
cancer balanced with an element of humor to keep the movie lighter
along the movie's journey. Decoding Annie Parker will appeal to a broad
audience; I strongly recommend the movie to anyone whether battling
cancer or those not exposed to this disease.I was privileged to attend
the viewing in Buffalo, NY. What an honor it was to have Annie Parker,
her husband, and Steven Bernstein on hand to share their personal
stories in making the movie. Our panel of cancer experts from Roswell
Park confirmed the validity of the research presented. The cast is
strong with an especially inspiring performance by Helen Hunt. Two
thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>
The subject matter is quite heavy but is told with sincerity and
real-person humor. The title may seem a trifle misleading since the
contact between Annie and the researcher is tangential at best -- they
meet only once. The the "decoding" goes beyond finding and sequencing
the BRCA1 gene. We witness the unwrapping of emotions and the
development of a life-fulfilling spirit in Annie and many of the people
to whom she is connected. Some relationships work, other don't, but at
its core the film remains true to its belief in Annie's undying spirit.
The only negative that keeps my review from being a 10 is that a few of
the scenes in which the finding the BRCA1 gene proceeds are stiff and
almost formulaic, in stark contrast to the reality of the rest of the
film. Go see it and you will be talking about it to many of your
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
As a breast cancer warrior dedicated to creating HOPE for breast cancer
survivors throughout the world, I enjoyed a private showing of this
movie immensely! I enjoyed meeting Annie Parker and commend her for her
contributions to the world of breast cancer. My message to other
survivors is that we can all find the rainbows through the storm of
breast cancer, which Annie Parker has done so poetically. Kudos to
Steven Bernstein, the cast and crew for this movie. It made me laugh,
cry and reminded me of what I hope all breast cancer survivors
remember: we are not alone! I love watching the Facebook updates with
people throughout the US and Canada begging for this movie to be
released in theaters. I can't wait to see it again with my family when
it is released.
<|_=00=_|>
After attending the premiere of this newly introduced movie in Boise,
Idaho, I new simply by the applause at the end that it did indeed,
triumph! Steven Bernstein's 6 years in the making of this film,has
certainly created a rouse. A rouse of the meticulous journey that
cancer can take on one's soul. He spared no details in capturing the
viewpoints of the victims and the victor.

The victor, Annie Parker, who was played so delicately, so raw, and
ever so convincingly by Samantha Morton, was and will always be one of
my favorite "stand-out" performances by an actress. She so exquisitely
captured cancer's journey which can be summarized by a simple quote
from George C. Scott, "The human spirit is stronger than anything that
can happen to it." 

Being that this is the first review that I have taken time to write,
I'm am very pleased, dare I say proud too, that it is for this movie.
And, although it is a review with a few small paragraphs, I hope that
it is enough to convince any and all that Decoding Annie Parker is
truly a "Must-See!"
<|_=00=_|>
Decoding Annie Parker is an amazing film that not only touches your
heart with the core message of breast cancer awareness, but shows us
our history of how far we have come in research and medicine to change
the face of breast cancer. This amazing combo of Dr. Mary-Claire King's
incredible non-stop life work research and with Annie Parker's brave
untouchable determination and amazing spirit, they both shines through
this truly master piece of a film for a resounding feeling of HOPE.

It took a very serious sensitive topic and showed us the humanistic
view of it all. We are people ... it could happen to any of us ... how
wonderful is the human spirit when we work together and help each
other! We can make a difference! Every person, no matter who you are,
we have the ability to make a difference.

Hats off and bravo to the amazing director Steven Bernstein for this
labor of love and remarkable devotion to this project! More films like
this should be produced! Such a great job everyone.

What a fantastic actor/actress cast on this film! Helen Hunt just
shines with a perfect recap of Dr. King. Samantha Morton was a true
star as the warrior that Annie Parker really is. Rashida Jones was
fantastic as always - love her BRAVE acting abilities! Aaron Paul was a
classic perfect rocker fit!

Take away point: A MUST SEE THIS MOVIE!!! Tell everyone you know to
watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw a screening of the movie in Chicago last night. Loved the
dual story telling. Director did a great job of combining these two
people's lives into a story in which you can not stop watching; in
hopes throughout, that they will find some answers. Both women and men
should see this movie!!! Everyone knows someone who has had cancer and
we all should be informed. A very empowering movie. Samantha Morton was
perfect as Annie Parker. Never once did I see her as an actor. She just
slipped into the part and made you route for her all the way through
the film. Helen Hunt as Dr. King had just the right nuances. The rest
of the supporting cast were well chosen and all felt real. I would
highly recommend this film for both men and women.
