
Buried is a film that keeps things deadly simple, one character, one
location and a one line but horribly inspired plot, those looking for
flashy visuals or big action should turn far, far away from this one.
It's worth noting though that the film is well directed and
photographed, director Rodrigo Cortes has a nimble eye for visuals and
angles to keep things visually interesting, while cinematographer
Eduard Grau gets the best out of the mere two light sources to make the
experience a frighteningly vivid one. The plot sees Ryan Reynolds
waking up in a coffin, with nothing more than a cell-phone and his
lighter to help him out, things develop through his series of fraught,
occasionally bleakly amusing and increasingly desperate communications
with the outside world. Its rather interesting to see a film so based
around interactions on a mobile phone, devices so often objects of
fear, suspicion, or in the case of some horror films and of course the
cinematic experience for the viewer, irritations. Here every ring is
crucial, the battery bar is nail-biting, even the light of the screen
is important. For me, just as interesting was the choice of lead. I've
never had time for Ryan Reynolds, a face from some of the worst in
lowbrow comedy and someone I never expected to appreciate breaking
through into not just serious film but something as bold in its
structure as this. A lot of people are likely to dislike the film on a
fundamental level, but Reynolds gives the performance of his life here,
running through a rainbow of emotions, angry, sarcastic and terrified
are but a few. Compelling and sympathetic, likely physically arduous
too (though I'd don't know how the film was made it must have been
tough, barring serious trickery) he holds the film wonderfully. The
script is of course of utmost importance too, and writer Chris Sparling
does mostly terrific work. An ordinary man reacting as best he can to a
nightmare, drawing on the sort of resourcefulness he probably hoped
he'd never need, occasionally breaking down but keeping ploughing on,
shades of dark humour in the protagonist's travails on the phone, its
endlessly interesting and as time goes on, nail-bitingly suspenseful. I
had minor issues with realism in the film, and there was at least one
interesting little aside that could have been developed a bit more, but
overall this is a great achievement. It surely won't appeal to everyone
and my rating might seem generous, but for doing this well on such a
risky concept, and putting together a suspenser that remains thought
provoking after, a 9/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught this gem at Sundance earlier in the year. It was part of the
'Park City at midnight' group of films, which showcased horror and
thriller movies, and played them at, can you guess? Midnight. I saw
Buried on the last night of the festival, Ryan Reynolds wasn't there,
but both the director and writer were. It was a small theater on Main
street, very artsy in it's look. But once the film started I had eyes
only for the screen.

It starts off with Ryan waking up, trapped in a box. A long box, the
length of a human body, buried deep beneath the ground. From there the
film plays out in an awe inspiring way, especially seeing as there's
only so much you can reveal from one location. The way Rodrigo Cortes
handled the filming is truly exceptional. From the start the camera
switches between closely claustrophobic, and flying high above Ryan,
showing the box with him inside and black all around. It's constantly
on the move just like our main character's thoughts. Diving in when the
action is intense, and then cutting to black when you don't think you
can take any more.

The pacing and plot of the film were nothing short of genius. And Chris
Sparling, the writer, should be commended for his work. He said after
the showing, that after having his scripts rejected for their cost of
locations he decided to go for a cheep but genius idea. One location,
one star, and a wealth of idea's. It makes a film like 'Salt' look like
a giant waste of resources, when Buried does what even some of the best
thrillers can't do, it brings us inside the character's head, and does
it all without a romp through the city, or blowing things up.

If you're one of those people who loves to sit on the edge of your
seat, chewing at your fingernails, while you're constantly asking
yourself what's going to happen next. Then by all means watch Buried,
and consider yourself lucky that you're not in his shoes...
<|_=00=_|>
If this doesn't remain in my top five come year-end I will be shocked.
Who thought that a movie can not only sustain a full 90mins stuck
within the confines of a coffin (and believe me, it doesn't leave the
coffin) but that it would be one of the most cinematic and audacious
pieces of cinema I've seen in a good few years? Like this year's
Inception and Toy Story 3, movies like Buried are the reason I love
cinema. It is escapism at it's best, ironic considering the setting.
Who thought Ryan Reynolds, Van Wilder: Party Liaison himself could be
so utterly mesmerising in such a challenging role? The movie is
literally his. Sure, there are those he speaks to over the phone (he's
buried with a Zippo and a Blackberry) but for the film's length, he is
the only physical presence on screen. He goes through every emotion
possible: fear, panic, anger, sadness, happiness, depression,
acceptance, and all of it played so convincingly that you almost wonder
whether they genuinely buried the actor and left a camera in there with
him.

There are minor gripes, all predominantly found in the first half. It
feels somewhat episodic at times and there's a lack of any real tension
during the first forty minutes but this is a pressure cooker of a film
and the last half is unrelenting to the point of nausea, culminating in
a truly great finale that caused me to shout-out in the quiet, near
empty cinema.

Buried is extraordinary. The only performance to beat Reynolds' in
recent years is Sam Rockwell's stunning turn in Moon. High concept
thrillers like this rise or fall on the delivery of their challenging
set ups. Fortunately, Buried works.

It really, really works.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting this film to be set entirely within a coffin and nor
was I expecting Ryan Reynolds to be much good. As it turned out I was
wrong on both counts! Brief summary:Ryan is a contract driver in Iraq
whose vehicle is attacked by Iraqis. He wakes up in a coffin buried
underground with a few "helpful" tools...and so ensues a
claustrophobic, frustrating and scary journey for both the character
and the audience! I found Ryan's performance quite compelling and was
almost living the experience with him, I even found myself holding my
breath at times and feeling quite panicky! The fact that you can't see
what is going on above ground adds to the tension and you are never
quite sure what to believe.

I also found this a thought provoking film on another level. It's very
easy to immediately dismiss the hostage takers as "the baddies" but I
think this is a very shallow and naive view of human nature. It made me
think, that transcending race, religion and nationality, what would any
human be capable of doing in the their situation. These are sometimes
hard working law abiding people who have seen their country torn apart
by war, who have seen their children dying and who no longer have any
other way of making money, and who see the Americans as to blame for
this....not that I want to sound like I was on their side at all or
that I condone it in any way, which I don't, but I found this film a
very interesting study into human survival instinct and desperation. 

A very good film, probably the best thing out at the moment, along with
The Town, and definitely worth the ticket price. 

And to the reviewer that felt this was a 95 minute terrorist propaganda
movie, shame on you! You clearly misunderstood the entire film!
<|_=00=_|>
I hate it when fantastic movies such as this get completely overlooked
when it comes time for awards to be handed out. Buried is a triumph in
minimalist filmmaking and is a heart wrenchingly intense movie
experience. It is gripping, moving, frustrating, and terrifying. Oh
yeah, and it all takes place inside a box. Paul Conroy, who is played
by Ryan Reynolds and is the only character in the movie we actually
see, wakes up in a coffin buried under the ground with no idea how he
got there or who put him there. He shortly finds out that he is being
held by ransom by a group of terrorists in Iraq. With only a pen, a
flask, a cell phone, and only 90 minutes of oxygen, Paul has to act
fast. The movie limits itself to an astounding extent, but makes the
most out of what it has, creating an incredibly thrilling experience.

How much can you really expect from a movie that takes place in a human
sized box with only one person? Buried delivers a lot more than you
would expect from this scenario. It has all the right elements to make
it as enthralling as any action film we see today. To start off,
Rodrigo Cortes does a great job directing his limited space. He
miraculously pulls off a lot of great shots and brilliant
claustrophobic nuances. He directs with enough skill to keep the movie
interesting in its entirety. The movie never felt lagged or drawn out
and every moment where it would have slowed down it would throw a great
twist or shocking moment that drew you right back in.

Furthermore, the director does a lot of great artistic work with what
little he to work with. We have to take into consideration the fact
that when you are buried underground in a coffin, there is obviously
zero light. Thankfully Paul has various light sources with him in the
coffin. And so to keep from breaking the realism of the film, these
light sources are the only light in the film, making sure all light is
authentic. Paul's light sources include a lighter, a flashlight, a cell
phone, and a green glow stick. Each of these light sources gives off a
different color, and these colors which obviously encompass everything
when they are present add to and reflect the mood of the film. When
things are calmer (relatively of course) we are treated to the soft
blue light of the cell phone. As things grow more suspenseful and
harrowing we are treated to scenes lit by the green glow stick. And
when things grow more sinister the red lens of the flashlight is used.
I found these minute details fascinating and they artistically added a
lot to a film which had little room to work with.

While Cortes' directing gives the film plenty of life, Ryan Reynold's
stalwart performance really drives the emotion of the film. He delivers
a top notch performance, and he as to seeing as he is the only
character in the film other than the various people he talks to on the
phone which we never actually see. It can't be easy to carry a film all
by yourself, but this year we were treated to two performances that did
a superb job at it, the other of course being James Franco in 127
Hours.

Buried is a film that Alfred Hitchcock would have been proud of. It is
a groundbreaking thriller that does so much with so little. It is such
a harrowing movie experience that you cannot forget. All 90 minutes of
this film are fascinating and gripping, especially the last fifteen.
The final moments of the film are some of the most captivating and
enthralling moments I've ever experienced through film. During the
finale of the film you will want nothing more than to know the fate of
Paul Conroy, and when you finally do learn his fate at the close of the
film your jaw will drop and you will be utterly blown away by such a
captivating on screen experience.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a bit hard to review this special movie. You can't go into special
effects because there were non. You can't say anything about the cast
because it's just one person you see. And the set is simple too, just a
coffin. Yes, indeed, it all takes place in a coffin. So that's already
tricky to watch because I know a lot of people who didn't liked it
because there was nothing to see or watch and I must agree with them.
It takes indeed almost an hour before the suspense comes in. The first
hour you will learn everything about the character, perfectly played by
Ryan Reynolds. But it's all done on phone. Of course, being buried you
can't do anything else than phone but for me it was a bit too long, an
hour as I said. But from then on it goes faster and things go from
worse to terribly wrong. The ending was a surprise for me. I won't
spoil it just watch it. Still, I won't state it as a horror either a
suspense or thriller. But you have to experience the coffin setting to
sit it through. Simple story, excellent camera tricks.
<|_=00=_|>
In 90 mins, you will see how fast this Blackberry battery goes, and how
stupid Paul is trying to get himself out from the coffin.

Okay, this is probably a man's worst nightmare - buried alive. But in
this movie, no fancy story behind, but just about war, terrorists,
govt, etc. The most boring boring boring element.

So here we goes, with a phone that actually have reception, a zippo
lighter, a knife, there are lots of ways to try to get himself out, but
in every ways he does, he did it the wrong way.

Now I think even an idiot knows we need oxygen to stay alive, and in
this case, our Paul seems to think there are actually too much oxygen
for him, so he decided to light up the zippo and burn as much as oxygen
every time he make a stupid phone call!!!! COME ON PAUL!!! I don't see
Paul is getting smart but with a phone he probably could just call
anyone that able to help him. But he chose to trust the US Govt.
Alright, that's your call Paul, but when his company, FBI and whatever
dealing-with-hostage-expert cannot help, Paul, You'd better think of
something better.

Here is my favorite part, a fxxking snake came from no where, suddenly
appear in Paul's pants and then get out. Okay, I can live with that,
becoz when a snake could get in, and Paul have a knife, he could
probably at least try to break the coffin and dig his way out! Nah, our
Paul still think he has enough oxygen and let's burn the snake heck
out! Blah blah blah that with that lawsuit phone call from his company,
what the hell??? There are ways to make Paul desperate but this part is
just a really sick cheap shot!!!! I don't really see how Paul is
getting himself out, but just watching him die every minute closer.

Some people might think they not gonna buy a blackberry phone becoz the
battery run out in 90 mins. =p Some people might think Paul might get
out and let's see how he do it. But no, he is dead becoz he's stupid.

Some people might think what the heck, I just want to watch a movie for
fun... OOPS, "Buried" is not fun either.

So that's it, there's no way Paul could live, why don't we give a
chance to some other movies?
<|_=00=_|>
Buried has an interesting concept to work with... man stuck in buried
coffin, limited supplies and oxygen... yadda yadda yadda. But the
filmmakers decided to make the story and the protagonist (Ryan
Reynolds) dumb as bricks, which basically tanks the movie. There are so
many flaws in Buried that it's beyond irritating and makes you demand
your 95 minutes back; from the constant use of a lighter when there's
supposedly limited oxygen, to the inability of the protagonist to stay
calm for one second and figure out an escape plan instead of shouting
into a cell phone from beginning to end. Any thrills or intrigue are
quickly stifled by the aforementioned poor writing and trademark Ryan
Reynolds school of douchebaggery acting.

127 Hours was another 2010 movie that had a guy stuck in a tough
situation where survival seemed impossible. But the protagonist in that
one actually survives because he was resourceful and tough as nails.
Throughout, the movie is thrilling and really takes you on an emotional
and sensory roller coaster. However, the thing that is really ironic is
that 127 Hours is a TRUE STORY. The filmmakers of this fictional trite
that is Buried couldn't even come up with a story that is more
interesting than what happens in the real world. The point of many
fictional movies is to take you out of the realms of reality, like an
escape. Buried not only doesn't do that, there are also no thrills or
excitement. Even if the movie was supposed to be more grounded in
reality, it fails at that as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, I was utterly disappointed with this film. After hype
surrounding the release my expectations were running high, but I found
myself leaving the cinema feeling cheated and empty.

It follows the story of an American truck driving contractor who, prior
to the start of the film is ambushed and placed in a wooden coffin and
buried underground. The film starts with Paul Conroy (Ryan Reynolds),
waking up inside the coffin. The rest of the film follows Paul as he
tries to follow the demands of his captors as well as negotiate his
rescue with seemingly incompetent and unconcerned operators in America.

The film lacked any real plot line and major events, and seemed to just
flow from start to finish in almost a single scene. With an estimated
budget of approx. $3 million I expected so much more, especially seeing
as it started Ryan Reynolds, but I was let down with poor camera work
and a very poor script.

A very claustrophobic atmosphere is created inside the coffin, but the
film is just over saturated with close up shots a dark lighting. I
understand the angle the director was taking whilst creating this
atmosphere but it was just too heavy, and I am not surprised that the
film only make approx. $100,000 on opening weekend. I feel for anyone
(like myself) who entered the cinema with high hopes as you will most
likely be solely disappointed and left feeling why a star such as Ryan
Reynolds would put his name to such a travesty.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is full of flaws. The lighter burning during most of the
film?? How much oxygen does he have. He also uses the lighter to look
at the screen of his phone which has a back light and nearly has as
much light as the lighter. The snake comes out of nowhere and
disappears into nowhere.

The people he rings to help couldn't care less. He writes with a pen
upside down even a marker wouldn't work due to gravity. And there is
many more. So many mistakes will turn smart people off.

Why he didn't try to use the knife to break out of the coffin is beyond
me. He was told he was only a few feet below the sand, even as a last
resort he could have attempted it.

Its just so obvious its a low budget movie but where did they spend 3
million honestly its mind boggling. Its a miserable film and I kept
checking how long more was left. With a few minutes to go I was
wondering how they will end it and ya the end was as terrible as the
whole thing. It has no point at all. Its so slow all the way through
and to be honest if it was any longer I would have packed it in and cut
my losses.

Stay well clear of this disaster
