
Usually plot holes are isolated. This movie was however one giant
plothole. 

(1) Grandpa

This is what I understood at the end of the movie: Turns out Grandpa is
a bad ass who just wanted to magically suck Wolverine's healing powers
and live forever. So what he did was (i) Invite Wolverine to Japan;
(ii) Fake his own death; (iii) As part of his plan (?) inject a spider
onto Wolverine's heart so that he loses his healing powers--What in the
world did this achieve for evil Grandpa?; (iv) As part of his plan (?)
allow his granddaughter to be subject to multiple assassination
attempts, just so that Wolverine will keep following her; (v) Then
after leaving a trail of crumbs for Hansel and Gretel, captures his
granddaughter, and lures Wolverine to some sort of lair, where his
powers can be sucked.

The (?)'s indicate where I am not sure if it was really part of
Grandpa's plan or things just worked out this way. 

Given the tremendous amount of uncertainty involved in the above plan
(e.g. Wolverine might've been killed, in which case no powers to suck;
his granddaughter might've been killed, in which case end of story, and
Wolverine would've returned to the Yukon to chill out with grizzlies),
you'd think there'd been a simpler and cleaner way to do all this. But
no. 

All this is quite forgivable, compared to other things that went wrong. 

(2) Viperwoman

What the hell is motivating her? What does she want? Is she working for
herself? Or is she working for Grandpa and if so, why? 

How did she inject the spider onto Wolverine's heart? Just by kissing
him in the middle of the night? (This was never clarified.)

(3) Japanese Father and Japanese Fiancé

OK so it turns out the whole family (except pretty granddaughter) are a
bunch of one-dimensional assholes. This is clichéd and boring and
stupid, but still acceptable if you at least make some effort
explaining what exactly was motivating them. 

Japanese Father wants to kill his own daughter just because Grandpa
willed her everything? (Oh, and this too was part of Grandpa's grand
masterplan?)

Japanese Fiancé is just some asshole who's engaged to pretty
granddaughter (this, BTW, is explained for us gaijin simply by the line
that "You're not Japanese, so you won't understand"). He's the minister
of justice or something. And he likes to have white hookers in his
hotel room. Uh, and what else do we know about him? Nothing! Basically
he's just some asshole who somehow wants to do bad things. 

There are many other things wrong with this movie. E.g.,

(4) Totally artificial and forced chemistry between Wolverine and
pretty Japanese granddaughter.

I literally cringed whenever they hooked up. 

(5) Jean Gray bad dreams BS was just LAME

I can think of only two things I liked about the movie: (A) The
Nagasaki A-bomb scene. Pretty sick, think it's the first time I've seen
it portrayed up-close in any movie. (B) The black ninjas, doing their
thing in the middle of the night and flying across roof-tops.

Other than that this movie was total scheisse.
<|_=00=_|>
You know you are a bad director when...

you negate the conclusion of the previous movie.

your plot makes absolutely no sense whatsoever.

you have more plot inconsistencies than Swiss cheese.

your favorite X-men character fights and moves with the grace of a
rock.

your favorite X-men character acts like a cretin and his decisions are
abysmally bad.

your favorite X-men character gets totally owned by a... ¿corporate
samurai?.

your favorite X-men character loses his power more than half of the
film.

your favorite X-men character cuts a tree with an axe and then gets
tired.

you can cut adamantium.

you can drill into adamantium.

your adamantium cutter fails to cut flesh.

Japanese swords can withstand adamantium.

your villain is not even clownishly developed.

your villain has absolutely no motivation for how she acts. NONE. Worst
villain ever.

your villain sheds her skin for no reason.

inexplicably you can suck a mutant of its power with a giant adamantium
suit.

you kill a bear for no reason.

grandpa is a douche for the completely wrong reasons.

you take 50 rope arrows to your back and not try to get lose.

you have an awesome army of ninjas, yet in the end they decide to go on
a sudden camping trip.

!!!!! you perform heart surgery on yourself, even if you can't heal
back !!!!!

you don't pass out during heart surgery on yourself, but scream with
excruciating pain when someone cuts your nails.

you live after performing heart surgery on yourself.

the best scene in the film is a scene after the credits.

you force a love relationship that is somehow immoral and has no
meaning or conclusion.

your film has an ending without any conclusions; except Wolverine now
has crappier claws.

You know you have a successful PR when:

people still pay to see this mess.

Be warned.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wolverine is OK at best, even with Hugh Jackman's usual superb
acting. Most of the action is mediocre and offers no surprises (you can
tell from the situation who is gonna die and who is gonna hit who
several seconds before they do so) with the exception of a few really
great scenes, but these scenes are scattered very far apart. 

What really brings the movie down isn't its action though, but rather
the culprit lies in the writing. Not only does it defy science and
physics every chance it gets -{{SPOILER: A poor representation of an
atomic bomb hitting Nagasaki is shown through a memory SPOILER OVER}}-
, but the depictions of certain powers make you wonder if the writers
even know how Wolverine's powers work. -{{SPOILER: At one point a guy
in a robot samurai (Real Steel, anyone?)somehow manages to CUT
Wolverine's adamantium claws with a heated blade, despite the fact that
adamantium is supposed to be unbreakable, with the only material within
the same zone of strength being vibranium (what Captain America's
shield is made of). But the film never offers any sort of clarification
or explanation to this. Added to this is that by somehow drilling into
his bones, the man in the suit gets younger as if he got Logan's
healing factor (even though that's not how it works), yet a few seconds
later he gets stabbed and his supposed healing power does nothing
anymore? SPOILER OVER}}- 

The character writing is poor and very 2-dimensional for everyone other
than Logan, and so many developmental/emotional moments are thrown at
you so fast that you don't have time to grab onto any of them. It's
like there was a bag full of typical Hollywood ideas that the movie
just flung on-top of the script.

Build onto this is a predictable and lazy script with a few cheap jokes
and a forced romance, and you have a movie that does little more than
half-entertain you. And to add to this, the after credits scene makes
NO sense (powers wise) and backtracks/negates important aspects from
the last movie, which is a very childish and unprofessional thing to
do, even if the last movie was quite bad. The people at Marvel need to
simply accept their mistake and move on, rather than try to dwell on
things that people enjoyed from their first 2 successful X-Men movies.

However, people always overate movies when they first come out,
especially for Marvel, so the rating you see here is probably not the
one you would give it. But if you're willing to deny several of the
things you thought you knew for an hour and a half to be sorta
entertained, then you shouldn't have much of a problem for this movie.
If not, i recommend reading the plot instead to get ready for the next
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
1. When Logan recovers from the atomic bomb blast, why does his hair
grow back perfectly styled?

2. When he loses his healing ability and he extends his claws on the
train, then retracts them, why do his knuckles instantly heal?

3. After Logan is shot several times in the chest, wouldn't the last
thing he would want to do is go chop apart a huge fallen tree? Wouldn't
his wounds open up and cause him to bleed to death?

4. It is very convenient that is Prometheus there was an alien removal
machine and in Wolverine there was a color x-ray machine, but how could
Logan operate on himself and reach to his heart to get the parasite?
Beyond the fact that it would be awkward, beyond the fact that heart
surgeons have to crack apart the ribs and then use a rib spreader,
beyond the fact that his ribcage is saturated with adamantine, wouldn't
the pain have caused him to black out?

5. If all Shingen had to do to get Logan's healing ability, wouldn't it
have been easier for him to have drilled into his claws when he had him
trapped in the chair, rather than building an adamantine transformer?

6. If Professor X found the ability to reintegrate his molecules like
Dr. Manhattan in Watchmen, why didn't he fix his spine so that he
didn't have to use the wheelchair anymore? And grow some hair on his
head? (eh, you even gotta wonder why in the 24th Century, Jon Luc
Picard never heard about Rogaine)

7. If only part of Logan's adamantine claws were chopped off, why do
complete bone ones grow back? What happened to the partial metal ones?

The movie was far too long on ninja fight scenes. I was beginning to
fall asleep. Sad that the bad guy turned out to be someone whose life
he saved. The Viper character was just creepy without any definable
reason for why he was even there.

All in all, it was a waste of bad popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>
Are you kidding me??? I mean seriously almost everything out of
Hollywood lately seems to fall prey to the same qualities as this
movie. Completely unbelievable, unrealistic, CGI overload, cheesy, and
a horrible plot that absolutely insult's the intelligence of it's
audience. If you are on drugs I'm sure you will like it because it's
obvious the writers wrote this garbage stoned. This is the first time I
have ever written review for any movie on this site which should tell
you how tired I am of seeing the same junkie pathetic movies of late. I
don't know the gentlemen that reviewed this movie from LA but I can't
believe he gave this 10 stars. Must have been paid handsomely.... I
wouldn't be surprised if this movie was written by the same writer as
the Lone Ranger.......blah
<|_=00=_|>
I've wanted to see a wolverine movie that was fast paced, action
packed, with a good storyline that would be well received by critics
for the longest time. In my opinion wolverine is by far the most
interesting of the x men characters. However this was not the wolverine
I was waiting for. Yes it was action packed and I honestly enjoyed the
fight scenes, but it was just shocking. This movie was flaw central. It
saddens me to know that this was truly Hugh Jackmans last attempt at
Wolverine, because we all know he's just too old for another attempt.
And no one wants to see him as wolverine fighting off the bad guys at
45, it would be unbecoming. The characters in this story were
ridiculous. I could tell from the moment they met that Wolverine was
going to get with Mariko, but part of me just would not accept it, up
until that fatal night when they kissed. A kiss which lacked any
conviction or real passion, it was laughable. The oddest on screen
couple I've seen since Matt Damon and Michael Douglas in Behind The
Candelabra. They were painfully awkward. The arch villain serpant lady
was atrocious. The ostentatious villain that we never even learn why or
how she came about to work for Yashida with undiminishing loyalty, or
what her general goal was. Yashida himself was a tedious villain and we
didn't really here much about his life after Nagasaki. Mariko's father
was a perpetual imbecile I could not fathom why he was even mentioned
in the movie his character had no real significance. My favourite
character had to have been Yuriko at least her motives were clear,
Mariko was sort of a sister to her and it was obvious from the outset
she wanted a slice of the wolverine pie. Now that couple would have at
least been believable because she was bad ass and fearless. Her psychic
powers were a bit ridiculous though she didn't really foresee anything
worthwhile did she. The fight scenes were enjoyable though especially
with the deadly ninja assassins creeping through the night, descending
from rooftops and snapping necks like nobody's business. Yuriko was
pretty sharp too, I was never really worried for her character, she
could hold her own.... she had enough sass. It's a tragedy though I
truly believe that Hugh Jackman was the perfect wolverine he just
didn't get the movie he deserved. Well my advice is to wait a few years
until the stench from this movie clears and then find a 20 year old
Hugh Jackman doppelganger and create a Wolverine with some substance.
It can't be that hard it has so much potential.
<|_=00=_|>
I can'y start to explain how much disappointed I was after watching
this movie. As many of the x-men fans I too like the Wolverine the
most. Having said that and given how much exciting the trailer looked
for this title, the movie to me was a big let down. Its slow moving,
not as much action packed as I hoped it would be. And plot to me made
no sense. {Spoiler Alert} I don't know if I got it wrong but in the
movie it has been portrayed that removing adamantium from Wolverine's
body deprives him of his healing power. WTF ? More so it has been
depicted to give the grandpa his(wolverine's) healing powers ! utter
bullshit. Wolverine(Logan) was known for his healing power and that was
the reason striker chose him for injecting adamantium. Did i miss
something there ? There wasn't a single scene in the movie that I
wished I could watch again, which is generally not true for a Wolverine
movie. Can't believe how Jackman agreed to do this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
There were so many things wrong with this movie that I'm sure I'll
forget something. First off, I'm a huge fan of the X-Men characters and
story, that being said, this should NOT be included as a film in that
series. 

First off, WE GET IT. WOLVERINE DOES THE HEALING THING. CAN'T DIE. It
is NOT necessary to stop all action every time he's injured, wait until
he's done healing, and then continue fighting. It happens in every
fight scene in this movie, which, by the way is all this movie is.
There's a cute scene between him and Marikol (that later has NO
significance WHATSOEVER), but besides that the whole movie seems to be
fight scene after fight scene.

Also seemed to me that Wolverine had probably 20 too many "one liners",
and while a few were pretty funny- not all 50 were. It would have been
nice to have some real dialouge. It probably would have helped clear up
all the confusion we experienced with the plot of the movie. On that
note, I thought the X-Men franchise was supposed to be about MUTANTS.
That's been the deal thus far, but this movie went political, brought a
bunch of humans into it, and seemed to forget about the mutants. Are we
living in a world where everyone is OK with mutants? Is this supposed
to be before or after Logan's time at the school with Professor X? We
don't know, because there is NO interaction with anyone except the main
characters. (I would have much rather gone to a movie about Storm's
history, or Professor X's history, OR EVEN JEANNE'S HISTORY, instead of
ANOTHER one about Logan. One was perfect- this one was NOT.) And the
whole scene at the beginning was pointless. WHy do we care that Logan
is a mountain man who cares about bears and avenges their deaths? Was
the poisoned arrow supposed to have a connection to the lizard girl?
What's her deal? Where'd she come from? Why does she wear those
ridiculous outfits? What was the point of the scene where she pulls her
skin off? Although it was cool, I guess, it seemed to have no point- no
reason to be in the movie. Maybe she's Mystique's sister...That would
have made sense. 

OH. And don't get me started on the logic of how the hell little old
Logan is able to tackle the 2 story pure Adamantium robot powered by an
almost dead jerk off who wants Logan's power. What's is deal anyway?
Most guys would be thankful their life was saved ONCE... and not shoot
for immortality. No one cares if you "aren't ready to die", you aren't
a mutant, so get over it and leave Logan alone. . And at the end it is
NOT clear in any way whether or not Logan can heal anymore. Did he
magically get his power back and they just forgot to include that
detail? Or were we supposed to gather that he can't heal anymore, since
the weird Asian mutant is now his "bodyguard"? And what was the point
of him "falling in love" with Marikol? He just leaves her. 

Why did we find out about the true plot behind the ENTIRE movie 15
minutes before the screen went black and credits rolled?

Why was he shot in the back with 100 poisonous arrows, intending to
keep him from breaking into the building, and then brought into the
building..? And why did he fall face down in the snow like a penguin
who waddled too fast? That was horrendus. He lost his bad-ass status
with that move. How is it possible for him to be riding a motorcycle in
the slippery snow? Why the hell is he wearing a wife beater tank top
and a jacket in the snow? Why does the army of ninjas 1. wait to attack
him until he's healed back up again, and 2. only come at him 1 by 1?
Not very ninja-like. 

What was the point of Marikol's friend in the movie? To predict the
future that we NEVER saw come true accurately? She sucked. She was a
terrible actress, and her hair was awful, and there was no point in her
being there- there was no scene that portrayed to us any kind of real
relationship she and Marikol had. But I guess she maybe does martial
arts? 

I've also caught myself wondering what the point of half of the movie
was. Why couldn't we have found out about the bad grandfather and the
ENTIRE PLOT OF THE MOVIE **BEFORE** IT ENDED. THAT WOULD HAVE HELPED
MAKE IT A GOOD MOVIE. IT WOULD HAVE AT LEAST MADE SENSE. 

While I can handle plot-inconsistencies, or stupid mistakes, or cheesy
lines, I learned this evening that I cannot handle all of that in ONE
movie. It's too much. To not have a clue what's going on, have to deal
with crappy writing, and rookie mistakes is too much. There are so many
more things I could rant about, but I doubt anyone made it to the end
of this review at this point, so I'll end with that. 

OH. And despite the terrible acting around him, the horrible one liners
he had to deliver due to a terrible writer / director, Hugh Jackman did
incredible well with the part, and his image in my mind remains
untarnished. I was also impressed with Marikol's performance. Though
she was a pretty shallow character, she really played her part well.
Kudos to you two.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost I must say that I absolutely loved this movie. But
as I will cover in my review it may largely be due to the fact that I
have always held the source material of this film in very high regard.
Having said that, I do recognize that their may be a sliding scale of
enjoyability for this film. If you are a fan of the 1983
Claremont/Miller miniseries of Wolverine then this is the movie you
have been waiting for. If you are fond of the character Wolverine and
interested into delving deeper into his chronology and exploring his
inner conflicts, you will certainly enjoy this movie. If however, you
have no familiarity, or no desire to familiarize with the character of
Wolverine, you may find yourself not caring about many of the slower
moments and longing for a more evenly paced action film.

Fans of Claremont's Wolverine rejoice, this Wolverine does it right.
The film does its best keeping characters intact while deviating from
the comics in the sake of a self contained story and grander character
development. There are several of the shots in this film that are near
recreations of the comic's original panels, and although story lines
have been shifted and shuffled in some places, its all there. Mariko,
Yukio, Harada, Shingen and Viper may develop differently than in the
comic series, but their relation to each other and contextual
significance is intact. As a Wolverine fan it was also nice to see a
meaningful relationship blossom between Wolverine and Mariko, unlike
the comics where it really is love at first sight. Instead here
Wolverine falls in love not entirely with the character of Mariko, but
rather with the idea of being a protector, a take that is a welcome
addition to the Claremont storyline. The characters of Silver Samurai
and Viper undergo the largest facelift in this film, but it isn't
entirely out of place. Let us not forget they were involved in the X
Men issues directly connecting to the Wolverine miniseries. Although
their characters have undertaken slight adjustments in order to
incorporate ideas from the Fatal Attractions storyline, the plot does
well to take from Wolverine's side of this storyline because it was one
of the few times in the series where Logan did feel vulnerable. Many
fans will recognize that the plot device and character of Master
Yashida cannot be found in any of the original comics, but one must
keep in mind it serves as a useful device to connect all the
developments of Logan's journey. All in all I think its the best
character study of Wolverine that any fan could ask for. Wolverine
struggles with his animalistic urges and his commitment to reform, he
grapples to find meaning in his endless immortality, and he ultimately
finds purpose and resolution that he had not before. None of these
developments are significantly or profoundly discovered, rather they
are slowly revealed, which may turn casual movie goers off from
enjoying this film. As a thoughtful exploration of Wolverine's
character and a grand homage to incredible source material though, how
can any Wolverine fan say no to this movie? It is the best X-Men movie
and one of the best comic based movies.

For those who would not consider themselves fans, but are rather
moviegoers intent on enjoying a superhero epic, be warned. This film is
a character study, it does not grapple with any conflicts outside of
Wolverine's internal struggles. The world is not being threatened, and
not many lives outside of Logan's are even being threatened, so the
storyline does not crescendo in epic suspense like the Avengers or the
Dark Knight. So for those not invested in Wolverine's personal self
discovery, some of the action can seem unmotivated and the pacing an
obstacle to satisfaction. The film does its job in providing action
sequences, but it intersperses several moments of symbolic soul
searching, cryptic metaphors and relationship building that serve as
pavement for Wolverine's self discovery. This movie can still be
enjoyable without interest in Wolverine's inner conflicts however. With
an outstanding supporting cast, a beautiful setting, and gripping and
intense action sequences, it plays a lot like a token Bond film for
those unfamiliar with Wolverine.

Whether you are familiar with the original comics or not, this movie
will certainly provide entertaining thrills and intriguing themes. If,
however, you are a fan of the original comic books, this film is a
wonderful achievement.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to see this movie, and had a feeling it
was going to be just as good, or even better than some of the other
movies in this genre that has been released lately. I loved Man of
Steel, for example. The Wolverine starts off with some really boring
sequences, but as a Wolverine/X-Men fan I really thought that soon I
was going sit on the edge of my seat. The aggressive Wolverine is about
to cut open some hillbilly bear hunters, because they have wounded a
bear with a toxic dart. OK, I think, stupid reason to fight, but hey,
let's just have fun and watch this piles of dirt get what they deserve
from a real superhero! But a female ninja enters the bar, cuts a chair
in half, slice the bottom of a beer-bottle with a magnificent sword,
and ends it all before something happens for us to see.. So much for
the action for the first half of the film. A viper-woman then drains
Wolverine for his powers. When he gets his healing powers back(by
pulling his own heart out - this is BTW a cool scene!!), he is
beaten/sliced to pieces by a normal man who has trained karate! If he
didn't have his healing power he would be dead by now. Really
disappointing to see one of my favorite superheroes, the Wolverine, who
stands up to Hulk in the cartoons, be sliced to pieces by a 50 year old
man. So much for fighting skills and super strength..... Involved in
this film is a great ninja clan. They forgot to rehearse hiding, so the
main ninja unluckily sits on top of the roof where everyone can see
him. Well, well. Ninjas can do a lot of other stuff. The movie is just
a dull love story for much part. Really boring and stupid. In the final
battle the villain in the form of a robot with a man inside(who is not
tall enough to see over the robots neck), kick Wolverines ass. Luckily
the lead ninja hits the robot with an arrow in the eye, and we can
finish this movie off with some really stupid lines, before Wolverine
takes off, leaving his woman behind.

This was such a bad movie that for the first time in my life I was
considering leaving the theater. I regret that I didn't...
