
With "Rann" Ram Gopal Verma strongly strikes back with his own kind of
cinema, wherein he only believes in telling his stories as they are,
irrespective of their expected prospects at the box office. The movie
is based on the news channel networks in the media and talks about the
unhealthy competition prevailing within the industry to get higher TRPs
than the rival channels. RGV in his own unique style blatantly reveals
the hidden truth behind the so called Sting Operations shown on the
news channels, which are capable of generating a massive reaction among
the general public.

As it should be, RGV straight away comes to the point in the first 15
minutes itself and does not waste time in establishing his artists in
their respective roles. But as expected, "Rann" is not a media bashing
movie. Instead it's a movie more interested in showcasing the
underground nexus existing between the clever politicians and media
networks who are helplessly dependent upon the mercy of these policy
makers. It tries to awaken the general public with the fact that today,
news is not being reported truthfully, but it's being created tactfully
in order to survive in this tiring competition. So, everything seen on
the news channel may not be true and hence the public has to take the
right decision with its own intelligence and instinct.

However, "Rann" does not entirely focus on the negative side of the
topic. Very insightfully, the director shows Three kinds of mindsets
prevailing in a society. Amitabh & Ritesh are the two protagonists
fighting for their true spirits of a sincere journalist. Paresh Rawal,
Rajat Kapoor, Sudeep, Mohnish Behl and Suchitra Krishnamurthy are the
ones only interested in the wrong side of the game. But the third
section is full of people like Gul Panang, Neetu Chandra and Simone
Singh who are neither interested nor willing to participate in any such
activity on the social front. Sadly these are the kind of people who
constitute a major part of our huge population and let the bad people
continue with their ugly tricks of the trade.

"Rann" makes an impact right from the start and leaves you thinking
with an interesting intermission. The climax comes up with a well
written and superbly rendered speech by the one & only Amitabh Bachchan
who is ashamed of himself being a part of the game played on his own
channel unknowingly. Amitabh is once again superlative in his brilliant
act of a sincere owner of a news channel who wants to run his channel
on his own moral principles. But surprisingly, he hasn't got many
scenes in the movie apart from the main climax. In fact the movie
majorly revolves around Sudeep, who plays Amitabh's son and performs
brilliantly in the role assigned. RGV once again gives the Industry a
rather unknown actor who has got the talent and capabilities to handle
tougher roles as proved in "Rann".

Paresh Rawal, returns on the screen as the main villain and is superb.
Ritesh Deshmukh surprises you with his superb portrayal of a calm and
sincere journalist, who refuses to accept the unhealthy norms of the
trade and is willing to quit. Mohnish Behl is great as the owner of a
rival channel. Rajat Kapoor fits to his role as a T. Suchitra looks
ravishing and acts well as the in-house spy. Gul Panang looks
delightful on the screen. Both Neetu Chandra and Simone Singh are just
fine and Rajpal Yadav does bring some relief moments in the tense
script.

Interestingly, Censor banned the use of "Jan Gan Man" composition in
the movie, but quite amazingly missed out on the lyrics of all the
other tracks used in it. Cinematography is of top rate especially in
the climax speech of Amitabh. Dialogues are sharp and hard hitting as
expected from an RGV film made on social issues and background score is
well arranged and apt for the subject.

The movie has a basic plot resembling with Madhur Bhandarkar's
"Corporate", but still unarguably it's more thought provoking and
relevant in the current scenario. RGV is right there visible in the
entire film and impresses you the most in the scenes where Paresh Rawal
is interacting with his silent mother, Amitabh is explaining the
irrelevant difference between a Hindu and a Muslim, Sudeep trying to
cope up with the extreme pressure of being successful, his suicide
scene and the well written climax where the truth prevails in the end.

Here, it must be noted that many viewers may find it hard to digest and
unentertaining as they may argue that they don't buy a ticket for
getting preached. But for all of them I would like to say that Cinema
not always should be a means of entertainment alone. At times it's the
duty of the intelligent film makers to come up with films which are
capable of starting a debate especially among the younger generation,
who have the power and enthusiasm to bring the desired changes in the
society.

In the past, "Ankush", "Yuva", "Rang De Basanti", "Swades" and many
more such films were made by on the similar grounds of starting a
debate. With "Rann" RGV contributes to the same new age wave & I hope
it is able to burn a new candle in the dark lives of our directionless
youngsters.

In the end, I would like to add that in an Industry, where everyone is
more concerned about the financial prospects of a venture, only RGV and
no other film maker in the whole Bollywood could have dared to attempt
a movie like "Rann". It's a must watch for all who have a thinking soul
and know the value of that one single vote you have in your hands which
can make all the difference.
<|_=00=_|>
Before the actual release of this movie, I was eagerly waiting for it.
Especially because it seemed to have all the desirable things one can
expect out of a Ram Gopal Verma made crime/political film.

When I read reviews of so-called critics, I was very disappointed. Most
of them gave it mere below-average to average ratings. I almost gave it
up thinking that it's another failure of an RGV experiment. But, I am
glad I didn't.

I don't know why the critics gave it bad ratings. According to me, it
was a very good film. It was well presented, not a bit exaggerated,
to-the-point film.

Things I liked about it - couple of good sarcastic background songs,
very well-defined/well-judged characters and the opening as well as
climax of the movie.

Things that could have been better - background score and some minor
touch-ups in screenplay/plot.

Bottom line - It's a very good film, overall. The plot was pretty good
with some minor holes. Despite being predictable, I thoroughly enjoyed
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent try i would say. Ram Gopal Verma is one of the most efficient
directors of bollywood. He is a master when it comes to political
genres. This movie was similar to company, sarkar, and sarkar raj in
terms of the look, but different content wise. It was about how media
creates news instead of showing it. TRP's is all that matters. There is
a fight going on for who breaks a news first and who presents it best.
The movie makes you think about the news that surrounds us 24/7. It
forces you to think how much of it is true and how much is only
sensational drama. The dialogues were brilliantly penned and the
screenplay was tight. The cinematography was annoying in parts, as the
camera moved too much, i hated it sometimes. Thats why i cut 1 mark in
the points.

Overall.

Story 10/10.

Dialogues 10/10.

Direction 10/10.

Acting 10/10.

Screenplay 9.5/10.

Cinematography 6/10.

Lyrics 10/10.

The movie was very well made in all aspects. The unique twists and
turns were it's USP. The lyrics were very nice and made you think. The
overall credit goes to the master of film making RAM GOPAL VARMA. He
did a brilliant come back with this film after a flop SARKAR RAJ and a
hopeless RAMU KI AAG.

Overall, The film is one of the best films made so far in bollywood.
Surely, go for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Rann is that rare cinema about the collective conscience which we often
like to think has gone out of style.Rann shows how tough it is to hold
your head high up in dignified righteousness in a world where ethics
crumble faster than cookies in wide-open jar left out too long in the
sun. 

Cleverly, Ram Gopal Varma situates his morality tale in the cut-throat
world of the electronic media where the TRP is God, and deadlines the
devil. And may the voice of the conscience rest in peace.

Varma plunges us into the world of the characters that he knows only
too well. The glistening sweat on ratings-challenged eyebrows are
captured through tight close-ups of worried faces that give nothing and
yet everything away.

The narrative is taut restless and biting in its depiction of
corruption in supposedly responsible places. Ram Gopal Varma gives no
space to the complicated labyrinth of relationships to grow. We are
left to gauge the depths and dimensions that underline the furious flow
of empathy and antipathy between various characters by reading between
the lines.

Rann is a razor-sharp bitter and biting look at the real world of
rapidly-moving moral issues. Varma extracts superlative performances
from the entire cast.

From Ritesh Deshmukh's heartbreaking idealism to Amitabh bachchan's
superb acting........everything in the movie is pitch perfect.....and
the movie on whole is really gonna be applauded for its awesome
screenplay......

RGV's best work after company!!

a must-watch!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
For once, I thought the content was good, the message noble, the
performances credible and noteworthy but the packaging was gimmicky,
the camera angles too wanna-be and almost nausea / headache inducing
and the soundtrack loud and irritating. Both the camera work and music
actually detracting from the film.

Amitabh Bachchan plays one of the most respected news presenters, a man
of integrity, who lives by his principles and runs his now declining
news channel by the same. His son, Sudeep, just back from USA is hungry
for success, is nervous, twitchy, short-tempered and also game for some
shortcuts. Rajat Kapoor, his brother in law, is an industrialist who
dreams big and has aligned himself with a politician, Paresh Rawal, who
also dreams big, is tired of being in the opposition. Suchitra
Krishnamoorthy works for Amitabh's channel, Mohnish Bahl used to but
now has his own channel, which is the number one channel in TRP terms.
Enter Riteish Deshmukh, who idolises & is inspired by Amitabh, to join
the world of news.

All the dilemma's presented are real, tangible and identifiable. We all
face them in our own ways. To go for the inconvenient truth or the
happier compromisewhere no one but the faceless public gets
shortchanged ? Every time we break a queue, bribe an official, shut our
eyes at an injustice around us, we're falling into the same trapthe
trap of a thousand cuts. And, God help us, but what if there is this
fundamental value misalignment amongst members of a family ? What if
the son-in-law, the son and the father seem to believe in different
things, have different objectives ? We can then easily understand how
someone like Amitabh feels as the edifice he's built around him begins
to show cracks. And what someone like Riteish feels as he see's truth
being sacrificed at the altar of the highest bidder.

All performances were credible, Riteish (very believable), Paresh,
Rajat, Sudeep (slightly over-strung) but Amitabh Bachchan for me
continues to mesmerizethere is a dignity, a believability that shines
through in his every expression.

Now for the disappointing bits. Its almost as if the film makers felt
the subject alone wasn't good enough and so decided to go for cutting
edge camera angles and really loud background soundtrack to mask the
film, heighten the tension. It actually was not needed, the subject
matter and performances were good enough, they didn't need gimmicks
like this or the abandoned national anthem. There were some obvious
flaws. You would probably keep your helmet visor down if you were
trying to follow someone incognito nor follow so closely. And maybe you
would put your phone on silent when in the vicinity of someone you're
trying to 'sting' ? Also, I felt the women characters were sadly shown
as mere puppets throughout the filminconsequential pawns in the hands
of the men who controlled their destiny. Surely more could've been made
of the combined acting talents of Simone, Neetu Chandra, Gul Panag and
Suchitra ? Its definitely worth a watch, Amitabh's performance alone
worth the price of a ticket. And there is food for thoughtnow if only
the damned music wasn't cluttering up the mind. More reviews at
ApurvBollywood...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie ! I was hesitant to see this movie because of Ram
Gopal Verma's recent flops due to which I thought he lost the knack on
making a good movie.

This is definitely one of the best movies I saw. Those who are looking
for a sensible and realistic movie to watch then this is it.

If you are looking for songs, dances and bollywood masala then you may
not find it here. This movie is an eye opener and exposes the present
mindset of news channels - news has become a sort of a drama (a
sansanati khabar) to make money than really to provide news. No wonder
all the media people have given this movie a bad review and rating. Do
not go by such bad reviews and ratings.

I will give it a honest 8 !!
<|_=00=_|>
The news is that old RGV is back on track.

I was hoping for RGV to hit form at least in RANN after few craps like
Contract, Aag and Agyaath. And guess what, He actually hit form in this
movie. Trailers were promising and thats what took me to the theater.
In the end I was really touched by this masterpiece which really went
unnoticed. This was definitely one of the best works of RGV since
Sarkar.

The movie rightly exposes internal politics of the media and how the
news are created instead of reporting the actual news. No wonder why
the electronic media reviewers like Rajiv Masand, Anupama bashed the
movie saying "Ill researched"!!!! 

Coming to the performance, Everybody from Rajpal Yadav to BigB has done
justice to the character but Sorry BigB its Sudeep who steals the show
with his terrific performance. 

Pros.. Almost everything..

Cons Nothing really...

Verdict: Get your copy of DVD right now
<|_=00=_|>
"Government, businessmen and politicians are responsible for the
stability of the country, thereby encouraging development but to the
common man, how are they accountable for their duties? For this very
reason, Media was born". Rann deals with the misuse of media's power
that reaches out to millions with the truth. This high voltage, no
nonsense thrilling drama that captivates your mind and engages you into
its unpredictable screenplay has Ram Gopal Verma written all over it
and it is indeed among his finest films. Rann is technically brilliant
in every aspect. The subject is serious and seldom will you find a
light moment and when the story demands it, Ramu enters the realm with
all his might. Not a single song for diversion, not a single heroine
dancing around, not a moment to edit, not a single mundane dialogue and
not a stone unturned. This is cinema in its finest story telling form.

Vijay Harshvardhan Malik (Amitabh Bachchan) is the Godfather of India's
news media. Righteous and truth seeking in his approach, Malik always
favors the truth over TRP ratings and sensationalism. His son, Jai
(Sudeep) wants the company to prosper by catering to the viewers'
choices while supporting his father's integrity. Naveen (Rajat Kapoor),
brother-in- law to Jai, introduces Jai to Mohan Pandey (Paresh Rawal),
the cunning politician who will cross all limits to gain his political
mileage and together, they convince Jai to create news to gain a
tremendous jump in the channel's viewership. Purab Shastri (Ritesh
Deshmukh), the new comer in the channel is a devotee of Vijay Malik and
as the sinister plot unfolds before him, politics and media unleash
true mayhem. In all this, Amrish Kakkar (Mohnish Behl) stands to gain
advantage out of his competitive positioning and his shrewdness. 

Rann moves at a reckless pace with a riveting narrative and explosive
dialogue from its ensemble starcast. In terms of its distinct musical
score, Sikkon Ki Bhookh, Gali Gali Mein Shor & Jana Gana Rann are very
pertinent tracks to the movie's theme and will take repeated listening
to catch the essence of the lyrics. Credit for a phenomenal screenplay
goes to RGV and for optimizing the potential of such a strong cast of
actors. Amitabh Bachchan is outstanding as the restrained and truthful
media baron. His finest moment is towards the end when he comes in
front of the nation, unravelling his channel's misuse. Paresh Rawal as
Mohan Pandey is evil yet his confidence in his techniques is appalling.
The smoothness with which he misleads the public in his speeches
deserves some chuckles. Rajat Kapoor impressively plays the over
ambitious businessman, Ritesh Deshmukh portrays the right amount of
composure for his character while walking straight on RGV's guided path
while Mohnish Behl deserves an applause for such an awesome come back.
He is a capable actor and one wonders why his on screen shrewdness went
unnoticed for so long. Gul Panag and Suchitra Krishnamoorthi are worthy
in their roles while Rajpal Yadav renders some comic relief without
digressing from the movie's theme. 

But RGV is the true hero of the Rann. With slick presentation, brevity,
brilliant screenplay aiding the seamless narration and a no-nonsense,
to-the-point approach in every scene, he conveys the movie's message in
a thriller like socio-drama. Sikkon Ki Bhookh, Gali Gali Mein Shor &
Jana Gana Rann are very pertinent tracks to the movie's theme and will
take repeated listening to catch the essence of the lyrics. Rann is
uplifting, enlightening, meaningful, intense and worthy of a large
combo deal at the cinemas. 

8.99 on a scale of 1-10.
<|_=00=_|>
Ram Gopal Sharma's Rann examines the corruption of the media and how it
can be manipulated or seduced by either party into compromising or even
forgoing their ethical obligations, in the name of favours, and money.
And in some respect, the issues presented here aren't far fetched, and
from incidents time and again, we see how the media can be used to gain
an unfair upper hand, and the power that it wields to bring down
positions of power when investigative journalism gets into gear. And of
course, having the evergreen Amitabh Bachchan star in a leading role as
Vijay Harshvardhan Malik, an ethical, no- nonsense media mogul who runs
his own news channel called India 24/7, is one of the major draws of
Rann.

As the moral compass of the country, Vijay's editorial news programme
sets the agenda, but unfortunately in the face of stiff channel
competition and falling ratings, his son Jai (Sudeep) wants to take the
channel into a new level through the injection of external funds.
Cautious that the source of such funds would mean an erosion of ethics
that his channel is renowned for, Vijay decides to allow Jai to proceed
with his plans, but little does anyone know that under their noses,
India 24/7's COO Nanlini (Suchitra Krishnamoorthi) is a mole in their
corporation, feeding chief rivals H24, run by Amrish Kakkar (Mohnish
Bahl) all the information on India 24/7's strategy, thereby letting the
competition always stay a step ahead.

The story by Rohit G. Banawlikar is fantastically multi-layered, with
ample development given to the this industrial espionage, and how it
draws Jai to the dark side of shady deal-making, which ultimately
culminates in the assistance of his industrialist brother-in-law Naveen
(Rajat Kapoor), and his friend, the dubious politician Mohan Pandey
(Paresh Rawal), with the ambition of taking over the prime ministership
of the country, through a carefully crafted scheme which draws upon
threats, murder, terrorism as well as a fake undercover expose
recording, delivered unknowingly and none other than Vijay himself.

It is also the story of a greenhorn investigative journalist Purab
(Ritesh Deshmukh), who idolizes Vijay and his pursuit of journalism
excellence, and whose honor and ethics Purab wants to emulate, so much
so that he decides to join India 24/7. A part of the story has Purab
caught in the entire web of deceit, and the moral dilemma he faces with
acknowledging the probable stain in his boss's reputation and career,
an act of betrayal, the realization that his inexperience had caused a
lot more damage than it should, before deciding to gamble it all in
doing the right thing. There are ups and downs as we follow Purab in
his journey, making him one of the more well developed characters in
the film that we both root for, and be exasperated with.

It's not all doom and gloom though, with well timed comic relief
introduced (without going overboard) through Anand Prakash Trivedi
(Rajpal Yadav), a presenter who just tries too hard, with an interview
scene being one of the funniest delivered in the film. But the more
memorable scene here has to be the stinging monologue that Amitabh
Bachchan delivers with gravitas, a rebuke on the role of the media, and
how it is so easy for those in powerful positions to collude for self
interests and money, that everything, including the progress of a
nation, can be sacrificed. There's no big bang finale action, but a
talkie finale which hammers it in with heartfelt emotion, one that I
wish our own powers that be could have a chance to listen in, and
perhaps remind themselves of their back to basics responsibilities.

The film quietly builds itself into a fire-cracker finale, having to
witness how deep the rabbit hole goes, and just when you thought it had
hit rock bottom, more events unfold to dig us further into the
consequences of the conspiracy which not only impacts the individuals
on a personal level, but you shudder at the thought of how the impact
would be on a national scale. When it it bottoms out into an inevitable
conclusion, on one hand you'd expect difficult sacrifices and decisions
to be made as a resolution to the problem posed, while on the other
feel sorry for those innocent caught up in the crossfire, and shrewd as
RGV is, there's room for a sequel to be made as well.

Should there be any gripe, those who cannot stand shaky camera movement
will find it disturbing to view the film through a camera lens not
mounted on a tripod, which in a way provided a sense of a documentary
feel to the entire proceedings with its fair share of twists and turns.
Female characters too are tokens in the film, mostly relegated to wives
and girlfriends who repeatedly looked quite sorry at being bewildered
at their man's problems. There was a little bit of a brushing of a
couple's differences in religious backgrounds (something sensitive with
the older female generation perhaps?) that despite it being mentioned
and played out briefly, didn't serve up any depth in the issue,
probably side- skirted and being an abandoned sub plot.

If anyone would think that Bollywood makes Masala type films only, then
obviously their horizons need to be broadened. Rann is an excellent
political thriller that's kept tight and pacey from the get go, coupled
with a charismatic cast whose delivery will keep you at the edge of
your seat as the narrative unfolds. Definitely recommended stuff, and
it goes into my books as an early contender for the top films of this
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review for any movie and I am writing it in response
to all those people who blindly criticize movies just for the sake of
criticism. I have been waiting for the release of this movie for the
last 2 months, because the trailers for this movie were really great
(which is something unexpected for a Bollywood movie). And the movie
justified my wait. I am not much of a fan of Bollywood, but this movie
was totally worth the wait and worth every paisa of the Rs. 175 I spent
to see it @ PVR Cinemas.

The predictability of the movie (something that a few people criticized
and something that some may feel is a spoiler) was the beauty of the
movie - RGV made sure the movie ended on expected lines. He didn't show
us anything that we did not know - he just presented it in a very
compelling way that makes us sit up and notice.

The music was really appropriate. The first half of the movie gives you
a feel of Madhur Bhandarkar's "Fashion" in it's pace. The second half
of the movie is a bit slow, but the ending justified the pace.

This has to be the the second best role of Amitabh Bachchan in the last
15 years (after his role in Sarkar). Mohnish Behl was exceptional and
it was nice to see him get a role that only he could have justified.
Paresh Rawal and Sudeep also played good supporting roles. Ritesh
Deshmukh has finally found a serious role that suits him well :) His
acting skills may have be panned by many, but he did justice to his
role in the movie. Rajat Kapoor was great as usual in his small, but
significant role.

Don't watch this movie if you want to be entertained or get
enlightened. See it to reinforce your distrust in the media, to think
once more about what is right and what is wrong, to question your own
judgment and to watch Amitabh Bachchan deliver another sound
performance.

Varun Reddy.

http://www.varunreddylive.com
