
This movie is a bad REMAKE of the original french production: "Banlieue
13" ( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0414852/ )... 

And believe when I say that it's not worth your time! The first movie
has better acting and story! That is obvious by comparing the ratings
of both monies... And to top that of, in the second movie they changed
some details that you know "made sense"!!! 

All in all, i recommend to anyone to watch the first movie! And i
guarantee that you enjoy 84 minutes packed with action, free running,
shooting and fighting...

ENJOY!
<|_=00=_|>
I personally thought the original French film "District B13" was great
so when I first saw the preview for this I was excited especially with
David Belle reprising his role. But maybe all that excitement got my
hopes a little bit too high because I was very disappointed with this
American version.

My first real problem was the fact that Belle's voice is dubbed. They
shoot it in a way so that when his character has dialogue, his mouth is
hardly visible and when it is visible, the words don't match what he's
saying. It's similar to what happened in "Enter The Dragon" when the
main bad guy's lines were all dubbed. I figured maybe since he was in
the movie, he was able to speak some English.

In the original Paul Walker's character Damien, seems to have more
skill with hand to hand combat. Walker isn't a martial artists and the
fight scenes he has are your typical American cop type of fights. The
one thing Paul Walker did was act. He and Belle were the only actors
who can actually act. What I mean by that is the secondary characters
were horrendous! B acting at best, I've seen better on the Scify
channel.

My expectations were probably a bit too high and because of that I
couldn't enjoy this all that much. The ending is also different in this
movie and I disagree with it. The French film is so much better on so
many levels. Skip this and watch District B13.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the original back in 2006 and absolutely loved it and its sequel.
I had high expectations for this purely because I always wished they
had made a third and when I saw Paul Walker was involved I had hoped
this remake would be on par or better. Unfortunately I was wrong. While
Brick Mansions is not a terrible film my viewing was ruined due to my
love of the first one which this is almost a shot for shot copy of. My
love of the French original may have set the bar too high it seems.
Also my only major personal gripe is the voice dubbing of David belle.
For some reason it struck a nerve with me and I could never really
appreciate any scene. If you're looking for a good way to blow 2 hours
or haven't seen the original by all means go see it but for myself this
was just not what I had expected. Solid 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Brick Mansions has the title of being Paul Walker's last completed film
before he passed away last year. It's weird watching this film with its
car chases and not think of Paul Walker's fatal crash, but that's what
he was good at. As for the movie, I hope Fast Seven delivers because I
don't want this film to be Walker's last movie since it's the
definition of mediocre.

Good: I liked Walker and Belle here as our lead duo. They worked well
together and they had fun banter. Belle who is the creator of parkour
showed off his skills and it led to some fun action scenes here. It
moves at a good pace and it never gets dull.

Bad: It's just terribly mediocre though. I haven't seen the original
this remake is based on, but the movie just felt like a VOD action
movie more than something worth to put in theaters whether it had
Walker or not. The plot is pedestrian, RZA as a villain is both
laughable and lame, some painfully obvious CG, and just a lack of
structure connecting the dots. Plus, that ending was really corny.

Overall, this was a time waster. Fun action here and there, but nothing
to really invest in and probably wouldn't have gotten much attention
had Walker not pass away. I'd say wait for Fast Seven to really honor
Walker's career.
<|_=00=_|>
In terms of high velocity action, this movie has it in spades.

The original was awesome and so is this. 

The filmography and editing is terrific and the action evolves at a
fast pace. 

I honestly have no idea how any one who just wants to enjoy a great
action film with some super cool stunts wouldn't love this movie. 

This really has some unique sequences in it, which should be seen. 

The acting is good and Paul Walker is, well he's just Paul Walker, a
really cool dude who I always enjoy watching.

Again just numb out and enjoy this terrific high throttle action film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Banlieue 13" was one of the best surprises I had in 2004. This movie
is pure adrenaline; actually one of the best action movies that I have
recently seen. The greatest attractions are the performances of David
Belle and Cyril Raffaelli. David Belle is co-inventor of the sport
known as Parkour, "which consists of moving freely in a natural area,
including climbing on buildings and taking on whatever is in the way".
Cyril Raffaelli is also stunt coordinator and stunt. Together, they are
awesome, with amazing choreography that recalls Jackie Chan when he was
young. The direction and the story are also good, hooking the attention
until the very last scene. 

"Brick Mansions" is a bad remake or "copy-paste" and a poor legacy of
Paul Walker's filmography. He did not deserve this turkey as his last
(and least) movie. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "13° Distrito" ("13th District")
<|_=00=_|>
Dystopian Detroit. Criminal exploits. No name thugs. Guns and drugs.
These are probably words, phrases, and tags seen before in other
movies, and apt descriptors of Brick Mansions. The movie is a remake of
2004′s french title District B13 and stars the late Paul Walker as
police officer Damien Collier. For about a year, Damien has been
undercover looking to take down Tremaine (RZA), a kingpin who also
killed Damien's father while he was in the line of duty.

Tremaine and crew reside in Brick Mansions, a place so dangerous they
built a wall around it to protect the rest of the city. Brick Mansions,
once a place of great prosperity, is now a hellhole no man or woman
should venture into.

To take down Tremaine though, Damien will need help. Lino Dupree is an
in and out con who isn't really a bad guy, but more of a victim of
circumstance. As a resident, he knows Brick Mansions like the back of
his hand. For Lino, it becomes personal when his girlfriend is taken
hostage by Tremaine. To save Detroit and exact revenge, the reluctant
duo must come together for a common cause.

Brick Mansions is not going to blow anyone away, which should not be
appalling looking at the trailers. It really does possess a straight to
home media vibe, from the cast to the direction. But you know what? I
did not think it was completely terrible and dare I say I was still
kind of entertained, all because I knew what I was getting into. In no
way does this absolve the film's problems, and it was not worth 11
dollars, but I have felt much worse spending my hard earned cash on
other cinema films.

Let's get right down to the acting, specifically Paul Walker's in his
last full role. It is not controversial to call Mr. Walker an average
actor, and many of the roles and movies he starred in were never that
acclaimed. He knew his limitations, and there is no fault in that. One
thing he often had in most roles though was screen presence and silent
charisma, which is evident here. It may sound politically correct, but
he really is the best thing about Brick Mansions. Likable, endearing,
and just a good guy to pull for.

As for the rest of the acting, it is downright abysmal. Maybe a quarter
of this is due to the dreadful dialogue, which falls into the typical
hard sounding thug talk that is supposed to be realistic and fear-
invoking, but comes off as dated and hilarious. David Belle, one of the
founders of Parkour, brings amazing physical feats to the silver
screen, but his acting chops are nonexistent. To add insult to injury,
he clearly struggles with the English language which ends up resulting
in horribly dubbed dialogue.

Still, he is not the worst actor in this movie. That title indisputably
belongs to RZA. His Tremaine is supposed to be menacing and
unflinching, but time and time again he brings the same facial
expression to the character, and the dialogue delivered by him may be
the worst heard all year. He has no thespian talent, plain and simple,
and it is time that Hollywood stop giving this man so many chances.
Honestly, there are worse actors present, especially RZA's main
henchman who is just as offensive, but none have the billing that RZA
does in this.

The plot itself is nothing to write home about, and is somewhat absurd
and slightly predictable. Just take it for what it is. There are times
late when the movie makes thinly veiled allusions to present day
Detroit and the Occupy Wall Street movement, but it basically is a
popcorn movie existing to showcase guns, stunts, and fisticuffs. The
only big issue had is that everything wraps up too nicely given that
the movie was a full on war moments before. As a whole, it is nothing
that hasn't been done or seen previously (and better at that), but at
least it only last 90 minutes.

There really are some well done set pieces from time to time. Parkour
may be a passing fad now, but when done right, it is still a treat to
witness, and David Belle moves effortlessly between chasms and rooftops
seamlessly. Paul Walker provides more hand to hand and firearm combat,
and he looks right at home in this element. Problem is, director
Camille Delamarre (Taken 2, Transporter 3, Columbiana) uses terrible
framing and janky editing during a lot of these scenes. It is quite
sad, as Belle and Walker are clearly doing some good things. For some
asinine reason though, this man insists that wobbly framing, needless
zooms and archaic Matrix-like slow motion is needed. Not all looked
bad, but a more consistent steady hand could have worked wonders.

Brick Mansions is unimpressive, but crazy to say, also enjoyable.
Heavily flawed, but entertaining (in a bad way half of the time) and
fast paced enough to check out through rental or Netflix. Non action
fans should avoid at all costs. With tempered expectations though,
Walker fans and action fans may find enough here for mild satisfaction.
A perfect film to throw on in the background and not think too much.

Read more reviews at moviemanjackson.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Considering I had never heard of this film until about a month before
it's release and had low expectations for the movie initially, This
movie did surprisingly provide a good hour and a half of B - movie
entertainment.I hadn't seen the original film either, So I didn't have
any biases to compare it to something else. Now seeing the trailer for
district B13, it looks awesome and I'll definitely watch it and than
compare the two films. "Brick Mansions" may not have had the best
acting or original plot/characters , but it does provide on some
inventive and cool action sequences. Parkour, martial arts, fights and
eye candy for the guys to look at make the movie a watchable popcorn
flick. The stunts and action sequences, especially with David Belle is
what stood out and made a fun movie. Only one thing would have made the
movie better and that was if it had been rated R. A little more blood
and gore shown would have definitely made it a more high impact action
flick. Overall, If your looking for a simple and not so demanding
action film for a quick 90 mins, I'd recommend it. Take it for what it
is and keep your expectations appropriate for a movie like this. 

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Brick Mansions is a remake of the entertaining French film Banlieue 13,
which was basically an exhibition of "parkour" structured around a
screenplay inspired by Escape from New York. Brick Mansions moves the
action to the United States, and adds Paul Walker as a co-star in order
to have a famous name; and from the original film, it preserved the
presence from David Belle in the role of an ex-convict with a golden
heart whose incredible "abs" and acrobatic ability are indispensable
for him to navigate the dangerous territory of Detroit, where the story
is developed (even though, ironically, most of the film was shot in
Canada). What it couldn't preserve was big part of the violence; it
seems as if director Camille Delamarre didn't want to risk himself to
an "R" rating, and he diluted the most extreme parts in order to obtain
the more commercial "PG-13". Anyway, I found Brick Mansions mediocre,
but moderately entertaining, despite the hollow characters and an
improbable screenplay whose main function is finding excuses for the
frequent fights, shootouts, car chases and, of course, the "parkour"
scenes where Belle and his disciples can display their physical
ability. Walker was given the dramatic scenes, and he made an adequate
work, even though his character is quite similar to the one he
developed in The Fast and the Furious saga. But anyway, since Brick
Mansions is one of the last films from his filmography, there's no
doubt that his character in here is consistent with the rest of it, and
once more, he proves the histrionic growth he achieved, from his
beginnings as a bland gallant until becoming a decent actor. For the
rest, Brick Mansions didn't bore me, but it's mediocre, and I found
Banlieue 13 much more intense and entertaining. Besides, I didn't like
the decision of dubbing Belle's dialogs. I guess his accent was
considered too French. Maybe, if he had been an Austrian, they would
have let him speak English despite nobody understanding a word from
him...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Brick Mansions", starring Paul Walker-The Fast & Furious movies,
Flags of Our Fathers; David Belle-The Family, Babylon A.D., and FYI, he
is French and the founder of Parkour, which he uses extensively in the
movie; RZA-The Man With the Iron Fists, Ghost Dog:The Way of the
Samurai and Catalina Denis-a Columbian actress that was in Sleepless
Night, Taxi 4.

This is an action movie that is based on a French film called District
B13, which also had David in it, playing the same part that he plays
here. This is also Paul's last fully completed performance in a
movie-he was working on Fast & Furious 7 when he died in a car crash in
November of 2013. Luc Besson-The Taken & the Transporter movies-is the
writer. Anyway, Paul plays a policeman in Detroit in the
not-too-distant future of 2018, where a bad part of town called Brick
Mansions is sealed off from the rest of the city by a containment
wall-sort of like in Escape From New York. It's to keep all the crime
elements inside, away from the descent people living in Detroit. RZA
plays a drug lord/crime boss that runs things in Brick Mansions and
gets real dangerous when he gets his hands on a Neutron bomb. David
plays a local resident in Brick Mansions that does not like RZA selling
drugs in his neighborhood so he does a hit and run number on him-he
steals the drugs from RZA and destroys them-using his Parkour to stay
one step ahead of them. Catalina plays the
girlfriend-that-gets-captured-and-used-against-the-hero part pretty
well. There is not much new here, as far as the plot goes, but there
are lots of car chases, lots of gun battles and lots of fantastic
looking Parkour to keep you occupied for an hour and a half , so I
enjoyed it. It's rated "PG-13" for violence, language and drug content
and has a running time of 1 hour & 30 minutes. It's a nice little
action movie and I would buy it on Blu-Ray.
