
I was watching what seemed to be just another pre-chewed, low budget,
Disney-esque movie about a kid with aspirations and a shallow family
that was just droning on and on. . . when something amazing happened. A
move that started off so tame, so "common", suddenly surprised me:
seized me: captivated me: moved me. Why hasn't someone told this story
earlier? It's certainly needed -- on the order of a "public service".

Zero spoilers here; and a pox on anyone who reveals so much that this
excellent movie cannot have it's full positive impact on those who
haven't seen it yet. The reviews and synopsis to date give you some
idea what it's about. I will just say that it tackles SEVERAL VERY
prevalent youth issues; but that parents might consider watching it
first by themselves before sharing it with your tweens and teens. (Or
if you're brave and you want to ride the roller coaster with them, go
for it! It's a very intense . . . but ultimately "safe" ride.) 

You will be shocked: but for the youth audience there is nothing
unwholesome or damaging in this movie once the final curtain draws. 

Just the opposite.

An amazing move, professionally executed by a very young and talented
cast and (from what I've heard), production team. This is probably the
highest praise I've ever given to a movie. If you have kids or are
concerned with youth issues, just watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
Logan is a 2010 movie produced by Real Bean Entertainment. Directed by
Kyle Lawrence, Logan is the story of two teenage boys, Tyler (Patrick
Probst) and Logan (Leo Howard). The story begins with the screening of
a movie called The Job Part 3 in a cinema, where Logan cannot keep his
mouth shut. Later on we meet Allison (Abigail Isom), whom Tyler
nicknames 'Hobbit Girl'. This movie focuses mostly on Logan, hence the
title, and his ambitions to write and direct a movie about his life.
Although, not many people think he can achieve his goal. When Logan
contacts major movie companies, his script is rejected by no less than
9 people. Tyler tries to raise Logan's self esteem by 'reading' his
script and calling it good and well-written. Tyler is a drummer and on
the night of a big performance he freaks out because he cannot find his
suit jacket which is needed by the performance and his spot on drums
might be given to a freshman named Sebastian (Colin Ritchie), he lashes
out at Logan asking if he had seen his jacket. Logan said that it was
on the back of Tyler's door and that he hadn't touched it. Tyler
refused to accept that and started yelling at Logan, calling his script
stupid and that he lied about reading it. Tyler leaves Logan in tears
on their family couch and goes to his music concert, without his
jacket. When he arrives at the concert his teacher Mr Spradley (Joe
Koestner) makes the decision for Sebastian to play the first act and
Tyler play the second. Annoyed, Tyler storms off to his car and drives
home, leaving the concert. When Tyler arrives home he can't find Logan,
he waits for about 10 minutes before going to 'The Boat', where most of
Tyler and Logan's one-on-one conversations occur. They also have a tire
swing set up for rock throwing. When he arrives it is nightfall. He
sees the tire laying on the ground and Logan hanging by his neck on the
rope that used to hold to tire up. He runs towards him and seizes his
legs in order to get him down. He takes out his phone and calls Ben
(Booboo Stewart) telling him to call 911. The next day Mr Spadley
approaches Tyler about leaving the concert, Tyler pushes him into the
door and leaves the room. Principal Ward (Collins Lewis) then suspends
him for one week for 'assaulting a teacher'. Tyler then turns to
Sebastian for help about getting Logan's notebook out of his locker and
collecting everybody on his list. Logan returns home on Thursday after
a dance with death that occurs on the Saturday night. Tyler surprises
his little bro by saying 'You're needed on set, Mr Director.' And in
the final scene it shows Logan saying 'Action.'
<|_=00=_|>
Logan, played excellently by Leo Howard, who I have never seen before,
but has apparently been in a "GI Joe" movie, is about a 13 year old boy
who wants to make a professional level movie. However, no one takes him
seriously, including his older brother, a senior in high school, with
whom he has a close relationship. The story ambles along with amusing
interplay between the characters, with some teasing and mild bullying,
and parents obsessed with fear of the government, played mostly for
comic relief.

Midway through, the movie unexpectedly turns more serious, and its
purpose is revealed. The director Kyle Lawrence, who on the special
features appears to be about 21, plays a clever ploy on the audience,
which at first might turn off the viewer, but ultimately works very
well. I became aware of this film on DVD because I watched and liked
some other Christian themed movies on Netflix, namely "Fireproof", "To
Save A Life", and "Dog Days of Summer". Let me state here that what I
liked about all these films was their stories, not the faith aspects,
as I am an agnostic (born Jewish) who has never practiced any religion
and don't like to be preached at. This film has very little faith
pushing, as only the character "Ben" promotes church and Jesus a couple
of times, and does not convince any other characters to do so. While
you can tell this is a low-budget film, and the ending gets a bit hard
to believe, the messages against teasing, bullying, teen-suicide, and
depression are beautifully integrated, and it is refreshing to see
relatively clean cut kids for a change, with no one doing drugs or
hopping in the sack before they know each others last names. I highly
recommend this movie for families, and even for adults who enjoy
stories about youths dealing with the problems of growing up. It was
truly a very moving and well done film, considering how young the
production crew and director/writers were.
<|_=00=_|>
The reason I hated this movie so much was because I didn't realize it
was sort of a kiddy Christian film versus a "real" movie that I was
expecting. The main issue that brought this movie way down was the
terrible acting. You can literally hear them reading off of the script.
It was so bad that I only continued watching it for the comedic effect.
And the Christian overtones were enough to make you barf. The one thing
I did take away from this was a wonderful image of Tyler in those
American Eagle shorts. Whoa...

Funny example of bad acting: "Stupid latte machine...Make lattes!" and
(said totally seriously) "If it's that important, you can make a TV
show about it." (reminds me of, why don't you marry it?)
<|_=00=_|>
Last night, I went to see Logan the Movie at Ronnie's 20 Cine in South
County. This was a lower budget (not sure what it actually was though)
film from Real Bean Entertainment. It was written by 2 friends of mine,
Matt Martin, and Caleb Doyle and produced by Kyle Lawrence. I believe a
couple of other also worked on the script. It's hard not to be a bit
bias when you know so many folks involved with a film, but for me that
just makes me notice their mistakes to a much greater extent.

In all honesty I wasn't expecting much from this film. As much as I
appreciate other productions from Real Bean, such as Completing Kaden,
the quality has not always been there (that is not meant as a slam as I
still watch it and encourage others to buy it regularly). I've learned
to have a very low standard for Christian films in general and that way
I'm not disappointed.

This time my expectations were blown out of the water. I was truly
impressed by almost every facet of this movie.

Normally, in Christian movies I don't support the extra expense of
hiring Hollywood actors. From what I've seen they don't really add much
to the project overall, but I do think it was the right choice in this
instance. Leo Howard, best known as Young Snake Eyes in the new G.I.
Joe, does an amazing job as the title character. The flow and
interaction between Logan and his older brother, Tyler (played by
Patrick Probst), comes across as very genuine. This is essential in a
movie that is driven primarily by it's dialog.

The editing for this film goes through marvelous transitions. I
personally only noticed one area where it seemed a bit sudden. Even the
set panning added a lot to the film.

As for the videography it has definitely increased in quality. I mean,
not one persons face was cut off :). But seriously, the angle changes
go across very well and even help to add to the emotion which is so
lack in other productions. The director has a tendency to follow the
actors feet at times in the film, and while noticeable I like it.

My favorite scene involves a beautiful orchestral piece with some
amazing cut away shots. There is also a piece of foreshadowing in this
part that I love.

There was one scene that I felt "jumped the shark" a bit and gave away
more than the writers really intended. This scene was a bit frustrating
and unbelievable but thankfully it does not drag on more than a couple
of minutes.

As I mentioned earlier, the movie is very dialog driven. This means
that it can come across as slow at times, but again I felt they pulled
it off very well. The soundtrack helps the audience stay with it and
the extent of the character development is the true payoff.

My favorite character through this production was young Abigail Isom ,
who played Allison. Who spunk and wit add not only humor to the film
but a poignant truth as well.

The comic relief of the film is definitely the Hoffman parent. The pair
come across very well together and do a wonderful job playing off of
one another.

One of the biggest pluses for this movie is that it is not over
Christianized. Yes, Real Bean Entertainment is a Christian based
production company and there are faith aspects to this film. There is
primarily one Christian character, Ben. The tone is there but not overt
as to take away from the other aspects of the story. In many Christian
films they seem to shove the gospel in and make some great instant
change in the character and in truth usually getting the gospel wrong
in the process. This film in no way does that, but nor does it ignore
faith all together. The balance is quite nice and it is done so in such
a way that this film will be of great benefit to public high schools.

That is probably the best audience for this film to reach. I'd love to
see it played in a variety of junior high and high schools around the
country and would encourage anyone reading this to get in touch with
Producer Kyle Lawrence about doing so. I think you can do that via
HTTP://www.realbean.com/ or e-mail him at realbean@realbean.com If
you're in the St. Louis area you can view the film at Ronnie's 20 Cine
off Lindbergh until Sept. 16. I'm not sure when and where else you'll
be able to see it but you can get updates from
HTTP://www.realbean.com/loganthemovie/ As important as it is for
Christians to take part in public discussions of politics we must
equally take place in the realm of the arts. Sadly, most Christian
production companies will make one or two projects and due to lack of
support will fold. Or those that do make it produce utter garbage
without ever striving for excellence. Every now in then though we can
find a diamond in the rough and with a little polishing we can see
great blessings come out that will point the world to a holy God and a
saving Christ.

That is what I believe we are seeing through the efforts of Kyle
Lawrence, Matt Martin, and Caleb Doyle. I've known them about three
years now and it is good to see them grow not only in talent but in
Christ. I don't spend too much time with Kyle at all and only minimal
with Caleb and Matt, but the work Christ is continuing on in them is of
immense pleasure to my soul.

Follow their work, support their efforts, and watch as we see what God
will do with a simple faith and a repentant heart.
<|_=00=_|>
The world red carpet premiere was on Sept. 2nd. The film opened on
Sept. 10th and the DVD should be available by Christmas 2010. 

It is powerful and relationship-driven. If you can't see yourself as
one of the characters, you can empathize and may know someone who has
trouble balancing school, popularity, and a dysfunctional family. 

Job well done by newcomer Patrick Probst and Twilight star Booboo
Stewart. Exquisite job by Leo Howard (G.I. Joe and Conan) who created
an introspective character that is the complete opposite of the larger
than life Howard.

Logan is a great addition to any family collection.
