
Its film's like these which tell you that movie-making in the land of
bollywood is headed in the right direction...

After a myriad of movies with glam star cast and no storyline, here's a
movie which has got its priorities right. With a strong storyline and
crisp film-making, Thanks Maa is a touching tale based on a
relationship which most take for granted-- mother and child. The beauty
of the film lies in the way it highlights the issue of abandoning
infants, using ironies found rampant in our daily lives. At times the
reality it portrays seems a bit too harsh to believe, but overall, the
issue is handled beautifully, without making judgements or imposing
moralities. 

Wonderful performances by Shams and his cronies. (The National Award
well deserved in his case.) Superb settings, amazing cinematography.
There are moments which the movie could have done without, but then
again, it might also have to do with the fact that most scenes and
settings shown in the movie are stuff that we, who live above the
poverty line, will never have seen or imagined. With settings like
these it is easy to often fall prey to stereotyping, but thankfully,
Thanks Maa has stayed clear of such mistakes. The dialogues are a
little too harsh at times, but emotions run high and its easy to feel
for the plight of the children. Maybe a little shaky on the technical
front, but overall, this movie is a must watch...
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen Slumdog Millionaire and when this movie started I just had a
feeling that this too will be something on the same lines. As the movie
progresses you get to see the true color of a slum life in Mumbai how
kids are forced to get into wrong things and how they get attracted to
things they are not suppose to do. THANKS MAA is in honest attempt to
bring forth an issue which is let in the corner of some newspaper with
no one to follow up or take action about. Child Abolishing is a serious
crime but it is equally difficult to trace who is the true criminal
behind it. This movie is simple yet to the point, all the actors (you
cannot call them actors) are just superficial, one feels like the kids
are straight away picked from the street and put in front of the
camera. Salman Khan alias Municipality is a rare gem, if he continues
acting he can become a big star someday; my other favorite character
was "Dedh Futiya" just love of the character and the soul. On an whole
this could be one of the most touching story i have ever seen on Indian
Cinema. My recommendation ...DONT MISS IT !!!
<|_=00=_|>
hats off to the movie team . This is a movie which reflects the caring
nature of a mother . I hope one day will come where all the women of
India are child-caring . Involving in sex before marriage is a sin and
most of "today's" so called women indulge in such sinful activities and
they end up abandoning the child . There might be other reasons but
this is what I know as of now . I request the movie team to make such
movies more often until our India is free of child abandonment . This
movie is much better than other bollywood movies as the other movies
these days mainly contain pornography and that is not a good thing .
Thank you Kamal bhai for showing our true India .
<|_=00=_|>
Thanks kamal for giving such a brilliant script and direction. No idea,
how this movie went unnoticed in 2009. I just started it with the
reason time-pass but the time passed away faster than what I had
assumed. Movie is all about falling social values, dwelling thinking
for different class of societies which they have got against
each-other, childhood honesty and increasing traffic of child labor.
One thing was clear in the movie- "character can't be determined by the
social status value". Although street children's' language are abusive
and is full of shits (which obviously because of the environment they
get) but at heart they are same as us or in fact better because of less
diluteness of the social courtesy. Acting is superb by everyone. Never
felt, I'm watching a movie.....it was like its all happening right
there, right real. One more admiring thing was bonding between kids.
Although they were corrupt because of the environment they
get.......but still they were honest as in childhood people use to be.
The learning point was that the childhood beggar/thief/pickpocket class
should be taken care very carefully by us. Instead of giving
money/insult to those kids, we should give something XYZ to mold their
character. The XYZ may be anything, I know some (like a little
conversation, good books, cloths, affections) but I'm pretty sure you
can find better one than mine.
<|_=00=_|>
let me very simple while telling it. this movie is great. there are so
many good things to tell about this movie,not going in the details but
i have to mention that it will cause you goosebumps at its climax. all
the lead characters are effective in their craft. however i personally
like sursuri very much. she got such a innocent voice. salman as
municipality shows a true mother nature. this movie brings so many
issues in very effective story telling manner.Including all the issues
through a single thread.while movie brings a lot of emotions, sometimes
you feel sad though the interesting characters such as dedh sana and
sursuri will make you smile i wonder why irfan kamal is not a famous
name in the industry . this man got huge potential.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the fuss over this film. While it successfully
conveys a social message about abandonment of infants by their imbecile
producers, this is shoddy filmmaking under the disguise of art.

The worst thing about Thanks Maa is its uncensored & insensitive
dialogs. You will find expletives in every other dialog and it plays
against the movie-watching experience. Let me remind myself that I am
not watching a documentary here. I understand authenticity but the plot
often mixes authenticity with non-glamorous audacity and the latter is
not what a film samples while touching a topic so raw. It is
independent cinema at its vulnerability because the writing is pretty
pure, directly coming off the streets of Mumbai.

You may relate with the outright, on-your-face themes, the story so
honestly depends on but as a film, it lacks many a points like
cinematography, direction and most essentially, the narration. While it
manages to deduce elements out of multiple themes (abortion, orphanage,
humans in denial, Samaritan-ism, insensitivity, etc..), the cohesion is
ineffective. And I see no reason why Indians, with their conservative
attitude even when it comes to films, will want to see it.

BOTTOM LINE: The National Award was deserving but as it may seem,
Thanks Maa is just a hyped up drama. Watch it if you love
documentaries.

Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NO

Profanity: Very Critical | Vulgarity/Obscenity: Strong
