
Like many of you, the first time I saw the trailer for The Lego Movie
(2014) I thought to myself, "Are you kidding me?!" Yet another movie
based on a franchise of toys aimed towards families willing to cough up
the cash just to shut their kids up. Can't we for once make movies for
kids that don't dull the senses? Have we truly come to the point where
there are no original thoughts? Yet after seeing not just families but
college kids' line up to see sold out viewings I became interested. In
addition, The Lego Movie managed to muster a staggering 93% on
rottentomatoes.com, an unheard of fresh score in the February film
graveyard. In short; curiosity got the best of me.

Boy was I wrong about this film. I honestly couldn't have been more
wrong about a film in my life. The Lego Movie is not only the must see
film of the late winter season, I'm going to go ahead and call it now;
it's the best family-oriented film for all ages of 2014. Okay maybe not
but at the very least it's a very high bar to set.

The story busts out of the gate from the get-go; Vitruvius (Morgan
Freeman) a wizard and "master builder", while protecting a mystery
weapon is blinded by Lord Business (Will Ferrell), obviously our caped
and big booted villain. Before Vitruvius is kicked into the abyss by
Business and his robotic minions, he foretells of a hero, the "special"
who will put an end to his dastardly plans, whatever they might be. The
next morning Emmet a seemingly ordinary Lego construction worker goes
about his normal day. He comes across a woman named Wyldstyle
(Elizabeth Banks) searching for "the piece of resistance" which he
unwittingly finds and becomes beholden to. Now it's up to Emmet and
some newfound friends to fulfill the prophecy.

It all sounds like a scenario dreamed up by a child who's read one too
many comic books. Yet within The Lego Movie's brick-blocked world,
everything including the story feels incredibly new and original.
Children, especially the young will enjoy the fast action,
laugh-a-minute jokes, sly slapstick and goofy characters. Obvious kid
favorites will include perma-smiled Unikitty (Alison Brie) and zany
80's throwback astronaut Benny (Charlie Day) whose ability to create
spaceships is frustratingly overlooked. Plus there's Batman (Will
Arnett)Batman! 

The older crowd however will be astounded not only with the seamless
CGI effects but with the subversive element throughout the film. Yes a
goofy, kiddy film of such unrestrained chirpiness can be positively
incendiary, at least in this case. Throughout the film there are
Orwellian elements tucked underneath crafty pop-culture references
ranging from Star Wars (1977) to Harry Potter. There are mischievous
pokes at what Henry David Thoreau referred to as "(leading) lives of
quite desperation." 

Finally there's cheeky satire aimed at the Danish toy brand itself.
Much of the conflict revolves around "master builders" who build
whatever they want out of the parts they find versus Lord Business who
wants everything built "according to the directions." This particular
theme struck the kid inside me as I was very fond of Legos. Younglings
may not realize that back in the day, pre-designed Lego play sets took
a back seat to the now impossible to find Lego Creative Bucket sets. To
the uninitiated that particular red bucket set was an amalgam of
potential foot sores but to this writer, those 200+ pieces were a
gateway to an unlimited creative space.

The Lego Movie accurately and effectively recreates that creative space
through accessible movie magic. It exhibits a fun hero story that may
not be treading new narrative ground but nonetheless feels fresh and
new. Finally the themes and occasionally biting humor makes The Lego
Movie a kid's film that isn't just for kids but the child in all of us.
This February do yourself a favor and treat yourself to an adventure
story unlike any other. Then go home and order some Legos online! I
know I am.
<|_=00=_|>
The stand out feature of the Lego Movie for me would be the way the
Lego Universe was created. The movie paid great attention to detail
making everything appear as it would made from Lego, including the
water and clouds, and the surfaces people walked on all had the circles
sticking upwards a Lego piece would have. Combined with all the yellow
faces, and Lego part during building, I was convinced action took place
in the Lego Universe.

A combination of adult and child friendly humour should entertain all,
the movie has done well to ensure audiences of all ages are catered to. 

The voice cast were excellent, especially Liam Neeson's split
personality police officer, making the 2 personalities sound
distinctive, and giving his Bad Cop the usual Liam Neeson tough guy. 

The plot is about resisting an over-controlling ruler, highlighted by
the name of the hero's "resistance piece". It is well thought through,
well written, and revealing at the right times. Full of surprises, The
Lego Movie won't let You see what's coming. Best animated film since
Wreck it Ralph! Please let there be sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
I was the only adult who didn't bring kids to the theater and all I can
say is that I was leading the clapping when the credits rolled.

"The Lego Movie" was an awesome, super creative, and extremely
satisfying film for all ages- that is, if you have ever played with
Legos. Even people that have never bought a Lego set will this enjoy
this awesomely humorous and in the end, heartfelt movie.

(Notice I am using the word awesome a lot, because one cannot stop
singing the "Everything is awesome" song played in the movie. Too
catchy!)

The creators did a wonderful job putting all the classic things about
Legos and making a new movie packed with humor.

The voice actors were outstanding. You can tell they really enjoyed
doing the movie and put in a lot of effort. Liam Neeson was fantastic
as the Good Cop/Bad Cop. But the most credit to the success of this
movie goes to Will Farrell who played the villain, President Business.
He gives such a great effort in this movie which allows you to laugh,
smile, and want more Lego awesomeness.

I give the Lego movie a big two thumbs up and is by far the best
picture I've seen in a few months. Highly recommend this movie to all
Lego lovers who have a passion to build and create something awesome,
just like the movie makers created this amazingly, AWESOME, film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Lego Movie is a winner on several levels. There is a good amount of
clever gags and I was constantly bursting with laughter. I was
surprised by how it contained so many memorable cameos, pop icons and
film references, providing a strong nostalgia factor to older viewers.
The playful approach towards movie clichés made it a really enjoyable
and refreshing watch. The animation is absolutely stunning and the
blend of CGI with stop motion worked brilliantly. Everything can be
attachable, making the vibe of each scenario feel very unique and
unlike anything you've ever seen. The Lego Movie has plenty of heart
too by the end of the journey and it's going to be really tough for
another animated film to surpass its inventiveness and charm.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd be surprised if anyone saw this coming. The Lego Movie is quite
simply unlike anything seen in a long while: rip-roaringly hilarious,
gorgeous to look at, imaginative beyond belief, a great parody of worn
out "chose one" clichés and also rather poignant and touching. 

The first thing one has to mention is the animation. Not only does it
look like an amateur stop-motion film with a $500 million budget, but
the amount of detail and creativity put into the visuals is just
staggering. At times there's so much going on the screen it's almost
overwhelming, yet if you look closely you can see that every single
thing is comprised of recognizable Lego parts. The various ways the
world shifts, breaks, is constructed again, falls apart and moves
around is simply a joy to watch. The implementation of real-world
objects into the otherwise plastic world is certain to get huge laughs
out of anyone, especially the revelation about the ominous superweapon
"Kragle". The result is a film that looks unlike anything we've seen
before.

The script is a roller-coaster ride of hilarious gag after another. The
jokes come at you so fast you can't catch them all in one viewing, and
blink-and-you'll-miss-it side gags clutter the screen. No running gag
wears out its welcome, no joke is overplayed or overemphasised. The
characters are all funny and likable with enough personality to them to
fill up multiple movies on their own. Batman especially is a riotous
parody of the grim, dark versions of the Caped Crusader we've been
stuck with for nearly a decade. And due to Lego having rights for
nearly every IP imaginable, you won't be able to guess which
mega-franchise is going to turn up next. 

Despite all this high praise, there are a couple of minor issues.
During its third act the tone of the film starts moving to a more
serious and emotional direction, which to me didn't work as well as the
rapid fire comedy of the rest of the film. The voicework is great for
the most part, but amidst all the others it becomes rather apparent
that Morgan Freeman and Liam Neeson are live, not voice actors. It's
not that their performances are bad, they just seem rather flat and
lifeless in comparison to the rest of the cast. 

The Lego movie is a downright masterpiece, there's no two ways about
it. Incredible visuals and animation combined with a hilarious script,
dazzling creativity and good characters make it one of the best and
most original animated films in a long time. Some minor hindrances can
do very little to drag it down, and the end result is fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review. I never wrote a review because I felt other
IMDb member had captured what I felt like saying. You may think it's a
mistake to see this movie because it's just a "toy" movie. But that's
what makes it so brilliant. There are so many well known characters
throughout the film, and it's rare to see such great character
development.

Even though there are so many it's really the charming Emmet (Chris
Pratt) who steals the show. 

It really was a LOT better than the previews made it seem. Charming
from beginning to end, with a few surprises you won't expect. The less
said, the better.
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch the trailer and you think its just gonna be a fun
stop-motion animated Lego movie, you were wrong. The Lego Movie is
beyond fun. its creative and it brings back a lot childhood memories.
The story was amazing, the jokes were hilarious, and they have great
intention in details.

But, the most important thing, the movie remind us to be creative.
Because sometimes, As we grow up, in someway, we stop being creative
and just follow the rules and instruction. For adults, this movie will
bring back your childhood memories and how you used to play randomly
with those Lego. And for a kids, you'll just love this movie, and
definitely makes you want to play with your own Lego.

totally worth watching movie! even your grandparents will enjoy this
movie! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see it with my brother. With the age difference between us we
both loved the movie for different reasons. For me it was superb. It's
amazing to see how lego people in a world made by lego, live and
interact with each other. There were some funny moments for kids and
even some moments for adults too. Overall it is a very enjoyable movie
and it is sure to remind you of your childhood. I recommend it to
anyone who has ever played with any form of lego whatsoever. You'd be
surprised to see how relevant this movie will feel. 

I think all people from all ages can find something in this movie that
will warm their heart. A timeless classic for sure.
