
I walked away from the movie, Remember Me, asking myself one question.
Did I just see the same movie I have heard several professional movie
critics review negatively or indifferently? The first review I read
online for Remember Me was that it was trite, predictable, and drawn
out. (Bull, I say.) The responses of those around me in the theater
today proved those claims false as well. I saw people laughing,
gasping, wincing, and weeping. I saw the audience RELATING.

The characters are multi-dimensional and the acting is fantastic. This
movie was not just feel-good fluff. It was not a platform to showcase
Brosnan and Pattinson as eye candy. It was thought-provoking and
intense. The characters were brooding, wounded, lovable and believable.
The movie's twist was unique and effective.

If you want to see an enjoyable movie that will challenge your emotions
and leave you feeling appropriately introspective, Remember Me fits the
bills perfectly. (And there is nothing at all wrong with the added
eye-candy benefit! ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I must say, I had my doubts going into this movie. I'm not a Rob fan,
and not to be rude, but I think the Twilight movies are terrible and
the books not much better. Now, you, the reader, are probably wondering
what the heck was I doing then, going to see this movie, if I had such
a dislike towards Twilight and Rob. The answer is two words: my friend.
She has to be the biggest Rob-sessed, Twilight-sessed twenty-two year
old out there, and it was her birthday last week, so I, being the good
friend I am, decided to put myself through two hours of torture on her
behalf. Turns out, I didn't have to.

I think I've made it clear that I did not like any of the
actors/actresses (particularly), nor did I like any of the movies/TV
shows any of the actors/actresses had done in the past. That being
said, I was pleasantly surprised at the amount of emotion the movie
brought to me. One minute I'd be laughing like a hyena and the next I'd
be nearly in tears. It truly was an emotional roller coaster. Perhaps I
didn't give the tween heartthrob vampire enough credit, because if
there was a single thing I noticed in the part of me that wasn't
overcome with emotion, it was that Robert Pattinson stood out. He made
me feel the happiness, the pain, the excitement, and most likely will
make you feel them too, unless you're a cold-hearted jerk. He actually
is an actor, not just some semi-good looking guy who happened to be
noticed for his semi-good looks. The Twilight movies do not do him
justice.

Although my friend will forever hold this against me, I must say, you,
the reader, should see this movie. I've seen the movie critics' reviews
for this movie and I know they say this movie is a waste of time and
money, but that is because they are looking at the separate parts of
the movie. Allow me to explain. Have you seen The Sound of Music? When
The Sound of Music was released, it raised a lot of controversy. Some
critics said it was too saccharine, others said the plot was pointless,
yet not one of them could explain why every person who watched the
movie fell in love with it, or why each of them had a copy stashed
under their bed. Why was it so popular? It had all the components of a
bad musical: kiddish songs, fairytale romance, nothing bad. Even the
Nazi chasing the family scene was not very intense. So why did people
like it? The problem was, the movie critics were looking at the
separate parts, not the movie as a whole. A movie can be judged by its
separate parts, and most of the time it is, but one must also consider
the glue that holds the separate parts together. A house made of bricks
would fall down without the mortar. It is the same with this movie. The
critics say, this part was too sad, this part too happy, they don't
fit. They are analyzing the movie too logically. Sometimes, the best
movies are the ones that touch your emotions, it doesn't have to be
explained. Give this movie a chance. It will touch your heart, and if
you are like my friend, leave you bawling.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Remember Me a an advanced screening on Monday. A few points:

1. The trailers on television do not do this movie justice. This is not
a light fluffy love story like I expected it to be. It's pretty intense
and has some very poignant scenes.

2. Don't let the fact that Robert Pattinson is in the movie deter you
from seeing it. This movie is nothing like Twilight, and he does a
great job in the role of Tyler.

I went into the movie thinking it was going to be stupid and
predictable...I was only going to see it because it was free. After
leaving the theater, I was very glad I saw the movie and would have
paid $10 to see the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, definitely Robert Pattinson's most profound, is not to be
taken or experienced lightly. It is a heavy drama that is less about
romance than it is about family loss amidst tragedy. It is also the
first film to surprise me in a very long time. I had no idea how it
would conclude until about three minutes from the ending, which
absolutely blew me away.

I went to see it with my girlfriend, and we had been waiting for it for
a long time. We both expected it to be good, but what we were really
hoping for was a Pattinson performance that demonstrated something
beyond the level of range exhibited in his interpretation of Stephanie
Meyer's lackluster anti-hero Edward Cullen. Needless to say, we got a
lot more than we bargained for. Shockingly, not only did Pattinson
easily eclipse both Pierce Brosnan's and Chris Cooper's performances as
the two "fathers" of the story, which were both excellent, but he gave
us something we will remember for a very long time. This is definitely
the most powerful film I have seen in theaters over the past year. It
reaches far beyond the limited emotional scope of "bigger" releases
such as 'Avatar' or 'Shutter Island', both of which are disastrously
overrated. What 'Remember Me' accomplishes with its riveting,
no-holds-barred storytelling and its brilliant final sequence is a feat
rarely, if ever, attempted so tastefully. It connects us with so many
aspects of our reality, our own world, and our own history, that many
of us try not to face. It forces us to examine what certain significant
events mean in the progression of our lives and the lives of our
families and friends. It examines how we relate to one another in both
the simplest and most complex of our relationships. It ties our daily
lives together with the unexpected, which is something that is often
unavoidable whether we are prepared for it or not. And it provides us
with some insight as to how to deal with our hardships in life. It
doesn't give us all the answers, as no film or book or story of any
kind could ever do, but it certainly inspires us to ask the tough
questions.
<|_=00=_|>
Ummm...I'm not really sure what to say. Very rarely has a film left me
utterly speechless.And I've been speechless for the last hour
contemplating on what to say... Let me first start out by saying that
Remember me is a brilliant film one of the best I've ever seen. A
motion picture that feels so real, so genuine you can't help but be
engaged. If i was to give anything away about it. It would completely
ruin the experience of seeing this film and not knowing whats coming is
the films brilliance in delivery. It's a small story about seriously
flawed individuals trying to deal with love, loss and life. I'm tempted
to spoil it but I won't just know. That if you suffer from any type of
depression you should think twice before seeing it. This is a film
although ultimately hopeful makes you feel suicidal. Robert Pattinson,
Emile DeRavin and cast are brilliant and it is without a doubt the most
powerful and jaw dropping film I've seen in quite some time. It's a
film that deserves to be seen, a film that should be seen if only to
remind us of so many things that we take for granted. A masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: although this review has no spoilers in it, it is important
that you go to the movie without any info on it if you can help it.
Going to this movie naive, made it work for me.

I was at a screening of this movie tonight and wasn't looking forward
to seeing it, but, did so to make my wife happy. In the end, it was a
totally unexpected, heart rendering, emotional roller coaster ride of a
movie. I sit here now a grown man who feels absolutely exhausted, but
not from the agony having to watch the movie, but from the bipolar like
seesaw of joy/agony/hope/desperation which this movie takes you
through.

When I saw the guy from the vampire flicks, I expected a teenage type
romantic comedy or the like and this film was anything but comedy. By
the end of the movie Pattinson earned my respect as an actor and his
supporting cast was pretty good as well.

The movie gets a bit slow at times, especially for fans of Twilight
movies, but if you are patient, and pay attention to the characters
they will draw you in and time will fly. And, in the end, you will
think it was worth every minute spent watching.

As you can tell, I really liked this movie a lot.

My only complaint was Robs smoking... ;-)
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever noticed how some people can teach you life lessons about
who you are what you hold dear? Have you ever passed a stranger and
wondered what tragedy they've endured in their lifetime? Have you ever
asked why me...or better yet, why NOT me?

Life lessons are often the hardest to learn and you never know who's
going to be the instructor. Sometimes it's an actual teacher who
fulfills that role. Sometimes it's a friend. Sometimes it's a parent.
And while you could argue that we really already know deep down the
things these instructors reveal to us, it stands to reason that a
reminder now and again about who we are and what we hold dear can and
should serve as wake up call or guiding light as we navigate our lives. 

And this film, well, I think it reinforces that the inner revelations
we oftentimes try to ignore, deny, suppress, and trivialize should be
recognized. And valued.

Thoughtful and touching, the film resonates after the lights come up.
It's been a long time since a film followed me home. 

Kudos to the writers and the cast. Well done all around.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a screening of "Remember Me" and thought it was a pretty
good movie. I'm a big Rob fan but I'm trying my best to be objective
here. I'll say this - if you are a Rob fan it is basically about two
hours of heaven. My fan girl self wants to give it 10 stars - but I
have to post what my movie fan self would rate it. It was nice to see
him in something other than Twilight movies and I think he will
surprise some of his naysayers. If you can give or take Rob and are
just looking for a good movie to see what I'll say is this - it won't
win any awards or anything but it was well acted and the story was
interesting and unexpected. 

My caution to you if you are checking for reviews for this movie before
seeing it - make sure you take any "Contains spoiler" warnings
seriously. You are better off going into it blind. I would steer clear
of these reviews until after you have seen it. In fact - I wouldn't do
any reading about it anywhere or watch any interviews just to be safe.
Just my two cents.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie last night and wanted to take a few before saying
anything on it. It is a very moving and powerful movie that shows the
power of loss and love. All the main characters are seriously flawed
and damaged people that because they come together (thanks to the angry
Tyler) become better people and find their own reasons to truly live
life (something none of them have done in years).

I thought the acting was very well done. Some i have heard complain
about certain scenes but truthfully, if you have ever suffered any of
the losses or pains that these people have, they would realize that the
actions are spot on! 

I am wowed by the movie, stunned truly... I am also very glad that this
movie was made, not as eye candy for Pattinson but rather to show his
and others talent on such a touching, difficult, and painful subject.
This would not have been made if it were not for the talent in this
movie that pushed for it to be made, THANK YOU!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very much looking forward to seeing this movie and am so glad
that I did. From start to finish I was wrapped up in it, getting lost
in the characters and the story. I don't think I've ever been so
impressed with Robert Pattinson and I'm saying this as someone who
isn't exactly a fan of his Twilight work. His acting was raw and
impressive and it just reminded me of how much I enjoy his indie movies
and all the work he puts in them. But this isn't about him. The movie
was phenomenal to the point where I was bawling my eyes out. The ending
wasn't at all what I expected. The movie itself blew me away and I
found myself tearing up listening to a commercial promoting it on the
radio. Definitely see it. Definitely take tissues. Right when you think
you have come to accept the history and world around you, this movie
reawakens your emotions and makes you feel things that you thoulght
you'd come to terms with.
