
If there is a soul, it is made from the love we share. 

There are many ways to describe Oblivion, but the softly spoken
afterword by Tom Cruise's character really makes you feel the human
heartbeat of this sci-fi epic. 

As always, the trailer is full of explosions and set pieces. Oblivion
the movie is an entirely different beast that values a human story and
characters that are driven by common purpose. While the cast is tiny, I
found much to enjoy from Cruise, Riseborough, Freeman and that Nordic
guy from Headhunters who is showing up more frequently in Hollywood
blockbusters. Aside from unusually limited screen-time, Morgan and
other supporting cast are effective and memorable. 

The threads of the plot are well-woven and I won't give anything away,
so what I will tell you is to prepare for a powerful journey into the
unknown where nothing is what it seems. Explosive set pieces take a
backseat for sci-fi philosophy with twists to spare. 

Oblivion ticks all the boxes for correct use of literary devices and
establishes enough original cannon to stick in your mind long after the
credits start rolling. It is a distinct success among the largely
abysmal offerings of 2013 so far, don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this having read a few reviews, I also heard a review
from a friend that Richard Wilkins on Australian critic had said it
wasn't that good. 

Well, I have no idea what film they saw, but it wasn't the one I saw.
The start was a little slow, but still threw in some moments of concern
to keep one on the edge. As the film settled on, it kept moving at a
good pace. Story was a basic love story, mixed in with morality, but
basically, love story. 

Cgi was amazing, cinematography was brilliant, stunning even. All the
main characters were easy on the eye too, always making it easier to
want to watch. 

Plot wasn't sophisticated, probably described as feel good, but
frankly, it was perfect. I left a 2 hour film and wasn't bored for a
second. 

Cruise, for all the press on him and his supposed kookiness, I don't
care, he carried the film..... 

GO SEE THIS, pure entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is - without a doubt - one of the most visually spectacular
that I have ever seen, standing shoulder-to-shoulder in that department
with the likes of Watchmen, Prometheus, Sunshine and Kosinski's
preceding effort - TRON: Legacy. Also (like TRON) the soundtrack is
excellent and very well used throughout, enhancing the action and
adding depth to some - at times - distinctly average acting
performances.

Tom Cruise plays Tom Cruise but that's not a bad thing in this case, in
fact his natural charisma carries the movie through some of its slower
sections. Morgan Freeman plays Morgan Freeman though he's really not on
screen for long enough to influence the movie one way or another. Olga
Kurylenko's statuesque profile is unfortunately not matched by her
acting ability and I often found it difficult to believe in her
character's actions and emotions. Andrea Riseborough turns in maybe the
best performance, convincing as the sad and confused Victoria,
unwilling - or perhaps unable - to confront the disturbing truth.

At over 2 hours I think that it's too long by about 20 minutes. A
shorter cut would tighten up the story and eliminate some of the slower
sections which I think hurt the movie's overall rhythm and flow.

Overall, I would definitely recommend going to see this movie in the
cinema, on the biggest screen that you can find. It just won't be the
same on TV. The visual appeal alone is reason enough, but combined with
a clever (if not entirely original) script, a thumping soundtrack and
some exciting action, you should be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
They don't make many science fiction films these days. This was a
pleasant surprise all throughout the film. Man did I like this film.

And in my opinion. Tom Cruise really likes what he does, and works at
his craft as an actor very seriously. In my opinion 95% of Cruises
movies in the last 10 years have been good choices. And I'm sick of
what the media says about his personal life.

I am one who went and saw Prometheus with an open mind. And listened to
what the director said about it NOT being an Aliens movie. And LOVED
IT. Good Sci-fi. Such as this film.

It definitely turned out to be something I wasn't expecting.

Excellent Job by Everyone involved. Nice work Cruise!
<|_=00=_|>
I SO enjoyed this movie - always LOVE to see a very entertaining sci-fi
film. This one really must be seen on a big screen. But don't let
anyone tell you about the movie plot (which is excellent)!!! If they
start to do so, stick your fingers in your ears and hum! Don't be
tempted to read spoilers! 

Part of your fullest enjoyment of this film would come from everything
about it being a surprise. If you like sci-fi, you will thoroughly
enjoy the plot line, the action, the actors, wonderful visuals of
earth, the music and the well-done special effects. 

Just watch the trailer if you need to be intrigued. It is a well done
representation.
<|_=00=_|>
Oblivion  The most sci-fi enjoyment I have had for a long time.
Elegant, internally consistent with an incredible of attention to
detail. The story was compelling and very well thought out. The masses
may not like this movie much . but there are quite a few aspects of
movie artistry brought together in one package. The blending of cgi and
live was superb. The acting fit close to perfectly. The cinematography
was excellent.

It would have been interesting if the "villain" side of the story could
have been developed more.

The twists are fairly obvious, but they are developed in such a
compelling way that it doesn't really matter.
<|_=00=_|>
Coming out of the theatres following my viewing of this film, I was
confused. I couldn't decide whether I liked it or not.

The ending was rushed, clichéd and quite cheesy, that I was sure about.
But I had enjoyed the film, more or less. The visuals are stunning. The
cinematography was truly impressive and I think it is these
Prometheus-esque visuals (in terms of quality) that successfully manage
to distract you from what is actually quite an appalling film.

The storyline is shallow and the large majority of characters
undeveloped (I honestly don't see much point in Morgan Freeman's
character). Even after the real human faction is revealed and a group
of drones rampage around massacring everyone, you just don't feel
anywhere near the amount of sympathy as you should do.

When the super villain is finally revealed, anyone who has seen 2001: A
Space Odyssey will have immediately recognised a blown up version of
Hal. The (fairly predictable) clone twist is reminiscent of Moon
although it is accepted by the characters after only a couple of
seconds of conflict.

The first twenty minutes however, were very good (minus the lightning
scene). The setting of the post apocalyptic time frame was laid out
beautifully with a collection of scenes which almost reminded me of a
futuristic version of I Am Legend.

Yes underneath the film is a very generic amalgamation of various
sci-fis that came before and it is definitely not a masterpiece in
itself, but to the open minded viewer it provides more than enough to
give you an easy two hours of mild entertainment and pretty landscapes.

(Does anyone else question Tom Cruise's morals in stranding his wife
alone in a valley for three years, thus forcing her to give birth by
herself? Oh yeah and when did that happen? Hours after she was shot?
Wait how did she recover?)
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to see this movie from the first time I saw the movie
trailer a long time ago. I came up with all sorts of fun endings in my
own mind based on the trailer and eventually my curiosity caused me to
read too much and I read some spoilers that I wish I hadn't. I still
enjoyed the film immensely, but wish I hadn't read the spoilers and
suggest you shy away from all potential spoilers, reading as little as
possible before seeing the movie. So when you're done with this review,
don't read anymore, just go see the movie.

I had the good fortune of watching this movie at an advance screening
on a smaller IMAX screen and I really enjoyed it, as did the huge
audience, judging by the lively and jovial banter as people exited. The
movie follows Jack Harper who is a drone repair tech in a future earth
that has been ravaged by an alien invasion. He has a by-the-books
eye-in-the-sky (literally) assistant named Victoria (nicknamed Vika)
who watches out for Jack and reports to Central. They live together in
a sky platform to avoid the alien scavs who come out at night. Jack is
keeping the drones repaired to defend huge energy machines from being
attacked by the scavs. Once enough energy has been stored up from the
world's oceans by the energy machines, the remaining survivors of earth
hope to leave in a few short weeks for the safety of a new base on
Saturn's Titan. To protect certain things, Jack and Victoria's memories
have been erased before their present situation. Jack is confused about
why they have to leave earth, whereas Vika is ready to go, but they
both cherish and respect each other. Then Jack meets Malcolm Beech who
tells Jack that things are not exactly how they seem, which sets off a
series of events that eventually lead to the end of the movie.

Some critics have mentioned something like "we've seen these ideas
before" in other movies. While it's true that there's nothing totally
new in this movie per se, that doesn't make the movie less appealing,
IMO. Thinking back to when I was much younger and saw the trailer for
the movie Independence Day in the theatre, I remember thinking that the
movie looked really fun despite the fact that there've been a zillion
alien invasion movies before, but I still hoped they'd do a great job
with it because the trailer for the movie was awesome. Was there
anything earth-shatteringly new about the movie? Not really, but it was
still excellent entertainment. That's how I feel about Oblivion. To me,
it's great entertainment.

The only minor complaints I had was that the volume of the music while
Jack and Vika were in the pool was too much and sometimes things
dragged ever so slightly between action sequences. Overall though, this
movie was definitely a remarkable treat.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing this film in theaters it was tough to know what to
expect. It immediately grasped my attention as the storyline was so
different than anything I have seen as of late. Tom Cruise is the
perfect man for the lead role, and does not fail to deliver a good
performance. If you are a relatively simple person with a short
attention span you may become a bit dazed and confused as to why
certain components of the film are occurring, but it adds up in the end
beyond measure. Although 'Oblivion' forces you to work slightly harder
than usual in understanding the plot and each twist that it takes, it
all comes together very well in this thrilling yet slightly confusing
film. No doubt one of Kosinski's best so far.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a fine example of a film that may have an inconsistent and a
familiar screenplay, but still makes up for an exciting watch due to
its director Joseph Kosinski's extra-ordinary sense of creating
spectacles that feel like breathing artworks. The effective background
music makes them feel even grander. I think Kosinski's creative process
starts basically from the music. It's essentially an orgasmic
audio-visual fair, just like Kosinski's previous and debut film-
Tron:Legacy. He's more ambitious here, and more passionate. Although,
you can't help but recognize the influences behind the story-which are
some sci-fi epics I won't name here-and feel deja-vu; it still never
stops being exciting and interesting. Oh, BTW I suggest to listen to
Oblivion OST by M83 (amazing shoegaze/electronica band) before going
for the film. Really! M83's soundtrack feels like Hans Zimmer-Daft
Punk-M83 all together at once. And that's effing awesome!

I wait for the day when Kosinski is handed an ambitious and promising
screenplay. That day, I believe, he will make a master-piece worth
savoring for lifetime.
