
OK. After seeing the previews of this movie, it was added to the list
of movies I did NOT have any intentions of seeing. However, I heard so
many great things about it, I decided to give it a try. Let's just say,
my gut feeling was correct. I have NO idea what so many people found so
amazing about this movie.

It's not that funny. Yeah, there were a couple of scenes that I found
humorous, and chuckled. However, most of the "funny" scenes were either
involving sex, about sex, about poop/vomit/farting/burping, or a lame
attempt at slapstick humor. Lots of predictable cheap shots. Seriously,
no sophisticated or classy humor... the whole film made me feel trashy,
honestly. I get that it's rated R, but still. I felt like I was in an
adult version of an equivalent to Spongebob at times.

Small plot. This movie is slowly stretched out for over 2 hours, with a
plot that could easily be explained entirely, with all important
scenes, in about 30 minutes. There were SO many long scenes that seem
to be thrown in just so Kristen Wiig can score another laugh, yet they
don't progress the story. Quite a few plot holes, and there were many
scenes where I caught myself rolling my eyes, thinking, "really?" 

The greatest movies develop their characters so much that you literally
feel for their outcomes. I left the theater with no regards to any of
the characters in this movie, because they were all so distant and
under-developed. The plot was so weak and rushed for the next pointless
comedy spiel, that they didn't give the characters any depth, except
maybe the lead of "Annie." I can think of 2 memorable scenes right now
from this film, and I saw it last night. Yeah, there were some funny
scenes, but nothing worth raving about in my opinion.

I do have to give "Bridesmaids" some credit. An all-female leading role
movie is very new in show-business, especially in comedy. Sadly, these
women made the "Hangover" equivalent instead of raising the bar, but
they get Kudos for the efforts. There were some sweet moments in the
movie, that for me, held the film from turning into a complete waste of
money. I do like comedy, but I prefer classier, witty humor instead of
the easy, thoughtless humor. I would much rather watch a movie that
evolves a character so much that the cheap shots aren't needed for
laughs. If you liked "The Hangover," then you'll probably enjoy this
movie..
<|_=00=_|>
Annie (Kristen Wiig) is a lonely woman who works in a jewellery store
and shares casual sex with Ted (Jon Hamm). She is still reeling after
her bakery closed during the recession. Her best friend that she's
known for years is Lillian (Maya Rudolph). Lillian announces that she's
getting married and that she wants Annie to be her maid of honour.
Annie is initially excited but then realises that she will be alone
again. Worse still is that Lillian is using four other women to help
organise the wedding, including the dominating Helen (Rose Byrne), who
she met less than a year ago. Helen and Annie compete furiously to
outdo each other on the wedding plans but its Annie and her
relationship with Lillian which comes off worse. Adding a little bit of
joy to Annie's life is patrol officer Nathan Rhodes (Chris O'Dowd) as
they start to slowly connect.

'Oh my God! You're getting married!' If you enjoy this kind of
shrieking, along with references to various bodily functions and
wedding parties so extreme they'd make royalty look mild, you will like
Bridesmaids. As someone who does not have any interest in these things
I found Bridesmaids to be a film of two halves: the first appalling and
the second not much better. It's been directed by Paul Feig, under the
watch of producer Judd Apatow and many have touted this as a female
version of The Hangover (2009). Although the misdirection of the comedy
could be pinned on Feig, the film was already on shaky ground because
of the screenplay written by Wiig. She co-wrote the film with Annie
Mumolo and was also one of the producers herself. Wiig has a background
in variety programs like Saturday Night Live and for worse, it shows.
Somewhere the rules of comedy have been forgotten. Comedy must exist in
reality. Humour is funniest when we can imagine ourselves in similar,
plausible, situations. There are very few scenes in Bridesmaids that
feel honest or genuine. Too many moments play out like extended skits,
stretching plausibility with unsophisticated humour and little concern
for developing theme. This movie is so desperate for a laugh that if it
nudged you it would have broken a rib. I took zero pleasure from
watching women defecate over a sink, vomiting on top of each other, or
becoming boozy on an aeroplane.

If these situations weren't distasteful enough, smaller moments are
undone by dialogue that lacks subtlety. Some lines of dialogue, like
when Annie talks to customers in the jewellery store, are ridiculously
blunt when they should have been loaded. It weakens the credibility of
the characters and flattens the humour because we know people don't
talk like this. Though taste in humour is subjective it's difficult to
ignore the image problems rising in modern comedies. A lot of rom-coms,
including this one, are pushing a social view that if you are fat,
single or unmarried, you are weird, low in confidence and a failure.
Wedding parties in films are also now so extravagantly realised that
they have become a measure of success and social approval. Bridesmaids
continues many of these trends, taking every chance to deprive its
characters of dignity. That is until Annie can find the ridiculously
nice Irish bloke. In the second half, the film at least tries to give
Annie a recovery after hitting rock bottom but its views of friendship
and renewal are simplistic and predictable. Like a lot of the film,
Wiig's comedic performance is so annoyingly exaggerated that it saps
any chance of realism. But Chris O'Dowd, as one of the film's few
likable characters, is mercifully restrained. A lot of women will see
this because it gives them the rare centre of attention in a raunchy,
mainstream comedy. But is this really the best Hollywood can offer? If
there's a Bridesmaids: Part II I'm sending a non-acceptance card.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the previews for this movie and thought to myself, wow this seems
like the female version of the HangOver. While it was not along the
same plot as the HangOver, it was about the moments leading up to the
wedding. At first I looked around the theater and noticed it was 95%
women and I started to feel like I had made a mistake. But by the end I
was pleasantly surprised that there was a lot good humor involved. Some
of it would be considered guy humor, but actually had all the women in
the theater laughing their asses off. There is a bit chick flick
element to it between the main character and a guy, but it is such a
small part of the movie that I would say it's about 85% comedy and 15%
romance/chick flick. So as a guy, I can honestly say I enjoyed the
movie. Most of these types of movies are about guys making complete
asses out of themselves and you almost never see the same from women.
Hollywood always likes to make women seem perfect, but you see women
making crude remarks about their own genitals and it's nice to see that
women can be funny in this regard as well. I think this was a great
movie for female humor, because I have long thought that comedy was
dominated by male actors and I am just waiting for some women to jump
in there and start paving the way. Good job on this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
My friends invited me to a preview screening of Bridesmaids last night,
and I accepted the invitation with a sense of cautious optimism. The
trailer for the film admittedly didn't do much for me, but I was
intrigued by the concept of a female-driven Apatow film. Ultimately, I
went into the theater with modest expectations, hoping to get a few
good laughs out of it.

By the time we came out of the theater, my three friends and I had
smiles plastered across our faces, and we couldn't stop talking about
the film for the next couple hours. We all loved it. I think it easily
ranks with the best of the Apatow productions, and it might even be my
personal favorite. Like all of Apatow's productions, there are
admittedly scenes that arguably go a little too far or a little too
long, but that's a small criticism when the film successfully fires on
so many other cylinders.

To start with, the film is hilarious, and I think the comedy far
exceeds the standalone bits shown in the trailer. Scene after scene is
filled with humorous and often sidesplitting moments, and they had the
theater in an uproar during the screening. I can't say enough about
Kristen Wiig. Prior to this, I've always liked her to some extent but
never really loved her. I think she's good at what she does, but I
wasn't sure her shtick could sustain an entire film. Would her passive
aggressive wit get old? Is it the only note she can play? Can she
handle anything more dramatic? Ultimately, she blew me away in this
film. Not only is she consistently and uniquely funny, but her
character is surprisingly well-developed, and Wiig brings the character
to vibrant and dynamic life on-screen.

And this brings me to my next point about Bridesmaids: the film has a
surprising amount of depth that completely caught me off guard.
Bridesmaids isn't a quickie 80-minute gag fest by any stretch of the
imagination; it's actually a leisurely paced 2-hour character-driven
comedy that takes time to develop its characters and establish the
various relationships and resultant conflicts between them. Ultimately,
the film ends up being quite heartfelt and even rather sad in places.
Despite the over-the-top antics shown in the trailer, the themes that
the film explores are actually quite grounded. Kristen Wiig's character
is someone who is feeling completely let down by life, which is a place
we've all been, and the personal journey of her character resonated
strongly for me. While her character is easily the most well-developed
of the bunch, even the other bridesmaids ultimately show some
three-dimensionality as well, despite the fact that they are sometimes
initially introduced as two-dimensional caricatures.

Ultimately, Bridesmaids was one of the most enjoyable comedies I've
seen in a long time. It's certainly not perfect: it could probably do
with some editing, there might be a few too many subplots (some of
which are left unexplored), and it arguably goes too over-the-top at
times, but everything else about the film works so well that these
complaints are little more than nitpicks. While I applaud everyone
involved in the production, it is Kristen Wiig who deserves the most
accolades. As co-writer and lead actress, she plays a huge part in the
film's success, and I sincerely hope this film puts her on the
Hollywood map, as I would love to see more from her in the future.
Whatever the case may be, Bridesmaids certainly makes for a successful
maiden voyage for her into the world of feature-film comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
I wish I had read the negative reviews posted here prior to seeing this
waste of time and money. The plot was a muddy, hackneyed, meandering
mess, the acting mostly so-so, and the subject matter includes graphic
depictions of diarrhea and vomiting. If that's your thing you'll love
it. All of the funny scenes were in the trailers. The protagonist was
such a whiny loser I kept hoping that someone would bump her off.You
know there's a problem when your "bad" girl comes off looking like a
nicer and more sympathetic person overall. Anything that was supposed
to be a joke or a funny situation was hammered home with a 15 pound
sledge hammer- and then repeated! This movie took over two hours to get
to a place it had no business ending up, I.E. a happy ending for Annie.
Her "redemption" was way too little, way too late and was contrived as
hell. This movie is now my new standard for really bad, bad waste of
film. My wife wanted to see it based on trailers and the mostly good
reviews. She had to cover her eyes during the bathroom scenes and found
the whole movie to be one of the absolute worst she has ever seen. If
you must waste $20 bucks(roughly two tickets) take a $20 bill, shred it
in a food processor, then flush it down the toilet. Do this while
eating popcorn and you'll have the same overall feeling of having seen
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying that I'm a man and that I went to see this movie
with my wife, not under duress, I was looking forward to seeing it. Let
me add here that in an almost full theater I counted four other men in
the audience which would lead me to believe that I was definitely not
the target audience for this movie. That being said, my wife didn't
like it either, she actually disliked it even more than I did.

All of the television promos I saw led me to believe that this was
going to be a female version of "The Hangover", it wasn't, not even
close. Which leads to my first problem with this movie, the advertising
campaign was very deceiving. Pretty much all the funny scenes in the
movie were included in the advertisements. What they didn't show was a
very formulatic, been done a dozen times, chick flick about BFF's and
wedding's gone wrong.

I will say that the funny parts of this movie, and they were few, were
very funny; the scenes on the airplane were good, and when Annie was
trying to get the cop to help her find Lillian. And...that was pretty
much it, except for most of Melissa McCarthy's scenes with the
exception of the one during the credit roll which was just kind of
sick. The rest of the scenes that were meant to be funny either went on
for much too long, were bizarre or crude instead of funny or were just
strained. A good example of strained was the bridal party all dancing
at the end of the movie, it didn't look natural or funny or like
anything but a bunch of actors having been told to dance around and try
to look like they were having fun, some, like Rudolf and Wiig very
badly at that. If you have zero rhythm and can't dance, don't put a
dance scene in your movie. One example of bizarre was two of the
bridesmaids just deciding to make out on an airplane, for no
discernible reason. Did Ms. Wiig think the guys in the audience would
just enjoy seeing woman kiss?

The rest of the movie was an overlong, strained attempt to make a funny
and touching movie all in one that failed at both. Some other major
problems I saw; The scene near the beginning of the film in which Annie
and Helen try to top one another at the announcement party went on and
on and on way past the point where it was funny and to the point were
it became tedious and even uncomfortable to watch. In fact many of the
scenes in the movie were like that, they just didn't know where to
stop.

Kristin Wiig's character, Annie, progressed in the movie from being
likable and funny to just being stupid and annoying. The scenes were
she sabotaged the wedding plans, either intentionally or
unintentionally, also ran way too long and were sad and annoying
instead of funny. Ms. Wiig needs to learn that sometimes, especially
when the material is weak to begin with, less is more.

And while this may sound mean and petty I have to mention it because I
kept noticing it over and over during the movie; Maya Rudolph is just
not an attractive woman and was just wrong for her role in this movie.
She was not believable at all, either as the bride to be or as the main
characters best friend or as anything else. She is probably a fair
sketch artist but she does not having the looks or the acting chops to
carry a movie.

All in all a disappointment, firstly because we were snookered in by a
misleading advertising campaign and secondly, because the movie tried
to be two things at once and failed miserably at both.
<|_=00=_|>
The most laugh-out-loud moments I've witnessed in a movie theater since
There's Something About Mary. This should make Wiig a star -- and she
deserves it (she has a Meg Ryan quality). The rest of the cast is
hilarious also. 

This isn't a formula film. The scenes are way longer but you won't
notice (because you'll be laughing so hard). They're much richer and
funnier because they're given time to unfold. 

I'm a guy. I went in with no expectations and came out with a big
smile. This is a female driven film (and women will love it) but guys,
don't be afraid -- you'll love it too. You won't "look away!" (a joke
you'll get after you see the film).
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is hilarious fun. My wife drags me to one chick flick a year
in the theater, and I'm glad it's this one. Considering the talent
involved, I expected something more than meets the eye after seeing the
trailer. However, I was not expecting such a hysterical experience.
This is a chick flick for dudes... the anti-chick flick "chick flick"
if you will.

What I loved about this movie is that although you get a sense of the
heart and charm, it's not afraid to pull any punches just because the
characters are female (the scene in the bridal shop will be the topic
of much discussion, I assure you). I also loved the cast, lead by the
always awesome Kristen Wiig. She was perfect in this role and I hope
she does more work like this. She can make me pee my pants with
laughter, and then straighten me right back up in a matter of seconds.

I also loved the pacing of most of the film. Several scenes had just
the right amount of awkwardness or pause or "beat" that really added an
extra element of hilarity. There were several of those scenes where the
audience was collectively cracking up, almost violently so. People were
wiping tears from their eyes and still relaying jokes back and forth to
one another as they filed out of the theater.

Anyway, guys, trust me.. make this the "chick flick" you surprise your
girl with and take her to the theater. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what you folks and the reviewers have been smoking! This
was the most embarrassing movie my wife and I have ever seen. "Dumb and
Dumber" was a 10 compared to this fiasco. Let me count the ways it
sucked. 1. The stomach flu scenes in the bathroom and on the street
were an absolute embarrassment. 2. Everything about the flight to Las
Vegas was stupid. 3. The first boyfriend was an imitation in and out of
bed. 4. The bride who let everyone make the decisions for her. 5. The
deal with the giant cookie. Have I said enough? If I could have, I'd
have asked for my money back. I cannot remember when I last saw such a
bad excuse for humor. My wife agrees 100% with me.

This wouldn't even qualify as a B Grade movie in our opinion. The only
actors who did any good were the main character, the cop, and the fat
lady. The bride had no depth to her character at all. She simply sat
there like a bump on a log.

We generously give this movie a 1 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is like a big slap in the face to all the lame chick flicks out
there as of now and a breakthrough, star making leading role for the
brilliant and hilarious Kristen Wiig. I have never seen a comedy in a
long time that was as consistently funny and I mean laugh on the ground
with tears coming down your face funny as well as touching and for once
genuine characters that you can relate to and have an instant,
believable, bond and chemistry on screen that makes the ongoing crazy
shenanigans all the more effective and hysterical. The showstopper,
scene stealing, laugh riot Melissa McCarthy was fantastic and no wonder
has her own sitcom and she should host or be apart of SNL or something
she is so freaking funny I almost wet myself! Maya Rudolph and Kristen
Wiig should make more comedies together and are much better than Tina
Fey and Amy Poehler were in Baby Mama, they are a comedy dream team and
the rest of the cast is the cherry on top. The movie goes through
typical issues from the average chick flick like jealousy,
insecurities, narcissism, cat fights, self-doubt, self-pity,
self-destruction you name it but it deals with those is a more honest,
realistic non sugar-coated way that was refreshing and smart from the
norm and raises the bar so high for chick flicks (which is more anti of
that anyways) and comedies in general that I personally can't see any
comedy this year or in the future surpassing its comedy greatness, it's
golden!!! Overall if you were waiting for a movie that will truly make
you laugh harder than you ever laughed before in the theaters in a long
time your wish has been granted, wear depends just in case because you
might need them. Highly Recommended! The most satisfying comedy in the
past decade that I never wanted it to end and forget about the
overrated The Hangover and its unnecessary sequel and bring on
Bridesmaids 2 already! 4.5 out of 5 stars.
