
"Oh, how wish I was back in my cage, with my mirror, and my little
bell"

Jesse Eisenberg should be forever grateful that the Oscar-nominated
"The Social Network" was released before Rio. That's because his voice
as Blu, the macaw, is so distinctive and perfect, that in my mind he
will always be Blu. And if Rio had been released months ago, audiences
worldwide would think that Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder,
missed his cage, mirror and little bell. 

Now, for the movie itself

Location, location, location. Because what's Rio, the movie, without
(pulsating, colorful, exuberant, romantic) Rio, the city? The story is
delightful, though predictable. The characters are cardboard, even if
3D and feathery. But "predictable" and "cardboard" are the worst
adjectives I could possibly link to Rio. The Rio deal, is that I
laughed all the way through it, like everybody else in the theater.

Blu, the last male of his kind, is the happiest macaw, out there in a
snowy town with Linda, his nerdy owner. Jewel, the last female of her
kind, lives in Brazil, and is the saddest macaw, imprisoned in a cage
and fighting for her freedom. She's a free-spirited soul, with the
world at her feet. Blu has lived a sheltered life, can't fly, and loves
every minute of it. What happens when they meet? Anyone above the age
of 7 can guess how it ends (age 5 if he's seen the trailer). But
there's so much delight from the first minute to the last, that you
don't want it to end.

I was one of the lucky few to watch the premiere of Rio in Rio, and at
this point I can hardly wait to see it again. A Brazilian, Carlos
Saldanha, directed the movie, and it shows. The details of the city are
all there, but so is the big picture (you know, everything that really
matters, along with wide panoramas of Rio by night, of a crowded beach,
of a sunset in the cable cars of Santa Teresa).

Lots of AMAZING aerial views in the action scenes. The main characters
are birds, thus flying should be expected. Many of those places showed
in the movie can be visited by tourists.

Rio doesn't have the depth of stories such as Toy Story or Up. It is a
simpler plot. It is, however, pure fun from start to finish, and
visually stunning. Location, location, location. As a native of Rio, I
could recognize most places, and was stunned with how realistic were
the slums, and how the geography of the city, especially the mountains,
could be so painstakingly reproduced. 

The movie is not a musical, but it comes close to it. There's funk,
bossa nova, a few clichés of Brazilian music and even samba sang in
English (still conflicted about it!). 

There is also the portrayal of animal trafficking, a centuries-old
problem in Brazil, and the subplot of a boy who lives on the streets
and must resort to petty crime, which adds up to a much-needed social
commentary.

By all means, don't miss this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Not many animations like Rio come around these days.When i first saw
the trailer and the team behind this very anticipated animation, the
Ice Age team, i knew it will be very enjoyable and fun to watch.Seeing
a TV spot right now, i remember that it was all those things, but much
more as well.The quality of the animation was unique-only two or three
movies can still compete with this and those are Tangled, Up and How to
Train Your Dragon.But still, there was so much going on in Rio, the
birds, the colors, the non-stopping stream of movement, lights, music
and songs, around the carnival in Rio or in the opening and closing
scenes with the singing and dancing of the birds in the forests around
the city.So much was going on and with such quality, that no animation
has matched.And those epic proportions of the animation are its
strongest qualities.Something one can't see every day.

The character development was very good, beginning with a little
background of the macaw bird Blu's life, with his owner Linda in
Minnesota.Maybe, the other macaw, Jewel, was a little underdeveloped as
a character, but with positive reviews coming, there might be a sequel
coming on the way as well.Then, Jewel's background might be better
developed.

With an animation of such proportions, some box office power along with
a few Oscar noms will surely be along the way and the fact that it
takes place in Rio alone, will act as an audience magnet, given that
Rio's one of the most popular and non-stopping cities in the world.This
magical feeling stays all along the movie.You just can't forget you're
in Rio.

Rio is as well another example of an animation, worth the time and
money of both young and grown-ups.That's what catches the eye.20-th
Century Fox has made a great animation and with the possible box-office
power of the movie, a sequel might as well be on the works.

So, a great animation, very epic and visually stunning, Rio will keep
everyone mesmerized and captivated long after the end, and personally
for me is one of the best, if not the bast animation i've seen.

I definitely hope for a sequel and i'll definitely see it again, at the
movies.

10/10 for this stunning, colorful, heartwarming and breathtaking
experience, named Rio!

P.S.The one thing i thought was missing, was Bellini's Samba De
Janeiro- this song can make the mood of every crowd in the world :)
<|_=00=_|>
After reading a good review of this movie I talked my wife into going
to see it, as I love animation. I wanted to see the artwork and I
thought the Brazilian music would be a plus. Well, the first three
minutes fulfilled my expectations, but it was downhill from there. The
artwork is indeed good in most scenes and breathtaking in one or two.
However, the difference between this and a Pixar film is in the story
telling and characterization. Whereas an adult can easily watch a film
like "Toy Story 3" or "Up" multiple times, in "Rio," the characters
really never develop enough depth for you to suspend your disbelief.
Tulio's bird imitation are meant to be comic, but instead are
ridiculous. Linda is the shy introvert girl from Minnesota who
predictably asserts herself when the going gets rough. I never
understood why two of the major characters in Rio are not Brazilian,
but instead talk like two Home Boys from the Bronx. Well, you get the
idea. There is one character that succeeds admirably, and that is the
villain, an evil bird named Nigel. But all told, this film is fine for
kids, but I would not recommend it for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
That in mind, there is more of 2011 I have yet to see, hence the so far
bit, but I absolutely loved this movie after seeing it when it came out
today. From the trailers and advertising it looked like a bright,
breezy and entertaining animation, and in my mind it was much more than
that. And I genuinely mean it when I say it is my favourite of the year
so far, even surpassing the outstanding(if somewhat misunderstood)
Rango.

What I loved most about Rio was its energy. Rio for me has more energy
than any of the Ice Age(from the same team) movies, and its energy is
truly infectious at that. Two reasons especially make it so. One is the
writing, I wasn't expecting the writing to be this sharp, funny and
witty, looking at some of the previous work the writer has penned,
while the jokes are plentiful and come by thick and fast. The other is
the soundtrack. It has a huge amount of authentic Brazilian flavour and
just ripples with zest. I loved the samba and bossa nova rhythms that
pulsate throughout, and further fun is to be had in the Busby
Berkeley-style beginning and the truly spectacular Carnaeval finale.

The story isn't perhaps original, nor did it need to be, but it is
fast-paced, with many entertaining scenes and is very rarely
predictable. There is also the obligatory life lessons here which are
seamlessly blended without feeling shoe-horned in or preachy. I loved
the characters too. Blu is very endearing, and voiced brilliantly by
The Social Network's Jesse Eisenberg. Jewel is a lovely love interest,
and her chemistry with Blu is ceaselessly entertaining and cute. Anne
Hathaway previously voiced Haru on the English dub of The Cat Returns.
She did a fine job on that, but in Rio she is even better, more
understated and less shrill. I equally loved the villainous cockatoo
Nigel(who avoids being a caricature and the like and voiced
phenomonally by Jermaine Clement) and the constantly drooling bull-dog.

Other than the above components, what also made Rio was its animation,
which is simply stupendous. I haven't seen an animated movie in a long
while(and I am a huge fan of animation) where the colours in particular
are so rich and warm. The characters are also beautifully modelled
especially the titular character Blu, and this includes the secondary
characters as well, and the sceneries and backgrounds are breathtaking
with such a refreshing richness and warmth. In conclusion, a wonderful
animated film and my favourite of the year so far. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The Brazilian city Rio de Janeiro is serving as the setting for two
films being released this April: one being a full on action film, Fast
and Furious 5, the other being a family animated adventure. Rio is that
film and shows that the Fox subsidiary Blue Sky Studios is growing from
strength to strength.

Blu the Spix's Macaw's (Jesse Eisenberg) early life is tragic, having
fledging from his nest too early and been kidnapped by poachers.
Luckily he was adopted by a loving owner, Linda (Leslie Mann) as a
little girl. 15 years later Linda owns a bookstore in the snowy
landscape of Minnesota and Blu becoming a very nerdy bird. A Brazilian
ornithologist, Túlio (Rodrigo Santoro) finds Linda and tells her that
Blu is the last male of his species and takes them to Rio de Janeiro so
the bird could breed. But Blu does not hit it off with Jewel (Anne
Hathaway) and matters get worst when poachers take the birds and chain
them together. When their escape Blu and Jewel they try and reunite
with Linda whilst avoiding being captured by the poachers and their
insane cockatoo Nigel (Jemaine Clement).

Rio is a pure formula picture and there are many elements have been in
other films, such as Blu being taken from the wild as a chick, the
animosity between Blu and Jewel and we all know where it is going to
lead, the story of Nigel having a tragic past and being rejected, etc,
etc. But formula does not have to be bad and when done right it can
easily lead to an enjoyable film for all the family. Director Carlos
Saldanda certainly made a fast paced adventure with a great amount of
velvet colour. There is a more old-fashion feel to it, like Disney
films and its copycats in the 90s. Pop-culture references are toned
down and there are a few musical numbers which is rare in CGI animated
features. The animation itself has a similar look to Pixar's particular
the human characters, though Túlio looks very similar to the main
character in Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs. The animation of the
parrots climbing is particularly well done and true to live to anyone
who has ever own one.

Much of the humour of the film is kid friendly slapstick as is expected
from this type of film and it is done very well. There is enough for
parents and adults audiences to keep them entertaining. My personal
favourites were the double act Kipo (Robin Thicke) and Marcel (Carlos
Ponce) who were the dumb henchmen for the poacher and outsmarted by a
cockatoo. They have some of the best lines in the film. But the two
characters Pedro the Red-crested Cardinal (will.i.am) and Nico the
yellow canary (Jamie Fox) were annoying and pretty stereotypical.

Eisenberg gives a typical nerdy performance as his character is
book-smart, but not adventurous at all, preferring to be safe with his
owner. Compared to Hathaway she is a feisty, strong female character
who wants to explore and distrusts humans. Both learn from each other,
for Blu that there is a wider world and for Jewel that not all humans
are bad. Clement was funny as he parodies British actors playing
psychopathic villains in action films. Though I do question why
ornithologists did not question why they had an injured cockatoo
considering the species is native to Australia and New Guinea (but this
is a minor issue). As well as the bird love in the film there is also
some nerd love.

A respectable 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
It's story of how love compels to break comfort zone and discover our
new self. Visually stunning Rio is brilliant stroke of writers to add
magic to adventures and love tale of endangered bird "Blu". Story
wouldn't have been same with Samba, carnival, beaches, mountain views,
Tram buses if it was not Rio.

The whole story revolves around Tamed Blu and wild Jewel. Jesse
Eisenber and Anne Hathaway did their best voice acting. Apart from Blu
and Jewel there are plenty of characters which build story effectively
and added plenty of rib tickling moments.

Even though story is simple and very much predictable with obvious
ending, still story survives to tell a tale of love despite
differences. Brilliant animation in 3d will take you on Journey of
adventure and fun! 

A must watch for its animation!
<|_=00=_|>
The main plot of "Rio", an endangered bird doesn't know how to fly. It
sounds a bit predictable and this plot was already used by many movies.
But the core of this film is showing the beautiful place of Rio De
Janeiro. The filmmaking was great. Colorful visuals, often hilarious,
and decent directing.

There is nothing wrong with the voice acting. The main cast, Jesse
Eisenber and Anne Hathaway are like the bird versions of them. Jemaine
Clement really made his character evil. The rest of the cast,
Will.i.am, Jamie Foxx and George Lopez adds more fun to the movie. I
just wish Tracy Morgan's character Luiz had more scenes.

The visuals are colorful and very spectacular. It really shows how
beautiful Rio De Janeiro is. The flying sequence is indeed breathtaking
even if it's in 2D. The problem of the movie is it's not so compelling.
The ending seems rushed. We will all know what's gonna happened to this
flightless bird. Although the movie has a big heart. The movie is often
funny of course.

Overall it's a fun experience. "Rio" is not like Pixar but it's still
enjoyable for the whole family. After watching all of those awful
recent blockbusters, I think "Rio" is the best movie I've seen this
year so far. It could be the studio's best movie yet.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Carlos Saldanha and the other creative minds behind the "Ice
Age" franchise, have come up with a vibrant new animal centric CGI
effort featuring the colorful birds of Brazil. And even the annoying
vocalizations of Tracy Morgan and Will i. am do not detract from the
fun - too much.

"Rio," written by Saldanha and Don Rhymer, tells the tale of a
dispossessed blue Mackaw, Blu (voiced by Jesse Eisenberg, "Zombieland,"
"The Social Network") captured in Rio de Janeiro transported to the
states and found by a little girl, Linda, in Minnesota. She grows up
and Blu, used to the domesticated life, is perfectly content until
Brazilian ornithologist Tulio (Rodrigo Santoro) arrives to inform her
that Blu is the last male of his species.

Guilt-ridden, Linda agrees to accompany Tulio back to Rio to mate her
pet to the last female, Jewel (Anne Hathaway, "Love and Other Drugs").
Of course, complications arise when an unscrupulous exotic bird
smuggler and his evil cockatoo henchman, Nigel (Jermaine Clement),
capture the feathered pair. Like any number of films like this, the
mismatched human duo must now unite to save their animal counterparts.

Meanwhile, other supporting characters line up on both sides. Giving
aid and comfort to Blu and Jewel include a toucan, Rafael (George
Lopez), a canary, Nico (Jamie Foxx), a fat pigeon rapper (Will i.am)
and a misplaced bulldog (Tracy Morgan). Joining up with the smuggler is
a gaggle of fierce but inept monkeys.

Despite the assistance, the two heroes are ultimately left to save
themselves. Flightless and pampered, Blu must also prove himself a
worthy companion to the bold and confident Jewel, something that does
not come easily.

The artists behind this movie certainly create a wild and brilliant
eye-pleasing adventure. The rhythms and hues of this South American
escapade are wonderful to behold and the tunes are fairly enjoyable,
from Lionel Ritchie to Jamie Foxx to an irritating rap by Will i.am.

The problem is the story. We've seen this domesticated animal returns
to their primitive roots premise before in "Madagascar," "The Wild"
and, most recently, "Rango." Blu also plays the same old spoiled nerd
fish-out-of-water character who somehow learns a lifetime of instinct
and savvy in a few minutes in an attempt to capture the unattainable
female of the species.

The pacing is frenetic and the human characters take a backseat the the
the feathery and furry stars of the picture. That' fine, though,
because Linda and Tulio are fairly non-descript, anyhow.

Smaller children will most likely get a big kick from the vast and
sparkling colors - especially the Carnival finale. Older kids and
adults may chuckle at a few situations, but overall may find the going
a bit tedious, particularly when the obligatory bird-brained moral life
lessons hit like a splat on the windshield of a freshly washed
automobile.
<|_=00=_|>
"Rio" it's a decent animated film for the whole family. It was directed
by Carlos Saldanha (Who also co-directed the "Robots" and "Ice Age")
Despite the immense amount of clichés and stereotypes that this movie
had (Remember that episode from The Simpsons, "Blame it on Lisa"?) I
enjoyed it: The animation is cute and colorful; personally I liked way
more the designs of the birds than the designs of the human beings that
just seem quite bland and generic. The same goes for their
personalities: The birds were the most interesting (and funnier)
characters from this movie, while all the humans (Including the main
villain) were just boring, one-dimensional characters that were easily
forgettable at best.

The voice acting from "Rio" was pretty good, and even when some of the
jokes seem forced (Or borrowed from previous CGI films) the overall
movie feels okay, being watchable from beginning to end. And also, it
was much better than the "Ice Age" sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: *** out of 4. 

I usually don't like movies like RIO, mainly because they always end up
being rehashes of previous movies; unless your talking Pixar, there's
very little to no new things in animated movies nowadays other than
their exquisite looks. So when I saw a special advanced screening of
RIO a few days ago, my expectations were low, enough for me to expect
that the film will fail. But hey, what a surprise! It's pretty good
actually. So RIO ain't a new masterpiece-it's not at all much different
with any Dreamworks or Blue Sky Animation effort that comes out every
given year- but it was fun. The kids at the screening had a ball with
it, but I can also hear older teenagers and adult audiences chuckling
along with them. And I'm up there with them. 

The story isn't something you haven't heard before. Blu (voiced by
Jesse Eisenberg) is a rare Blue Macaw raised in Minnesota by the
bookish Linda (voiced by Leslie Mann). But being the last male of his
species, Blu is requested to leave his Minnesota homeland and shipped
to his real birthplace, in Rio de Janeiro, where a female of the same
species is being kept in captivity. Blu doesn't warm up easily to the
impetuous Jewel (voiced by Anne Hathaway), and certainly a rare bird
such as her being kept in captivity like that doesn't help. It also
doesn't help that Jewel wants to escape and Blu, being a total
"housebird" and all, can't fly. 

But what it lacks in a fresh new idea it more than makes up for in
lively execution. This movie is just amazing to look at, boasting one
of the most gorgeous looks of any animated movie since some of the
Pixar films and the occasionally bizarre but lavish-looking BEE MOVIE.
It may even be more beautiful since this is exactly what it wants to be
and not much else. Director Carlos Saldanha, who helmed two ICE AGE
sequels, and the rest of the crew have done just that. The eye-popping
visuals are the moneymaker and one of the few films to come out once
and a while that is worth paying extra money to see on 3D. Once again,
the 3D ain't something groundbreaking, but it's exactly what comes to
mind when thinking of 3D; the visuals are pristine and dynamic, with
flying scenes that are just breathtaking to watch. I could almost feel
the wind as a glider glides past the Christ the Redeemer statue. Rio
itself looks gorgeous, from the "Carnival" parades to the look of it
during the nighttime scenes are just beautiful. If nothing else, it's a
virtual tour of a beautiful portrait painted by Saldanha and his
animators. The voice cast ain't bad either. Eisenberg is hilarious, and
granted he'll be doing these kind of work sometime soon. The real
standout is Jemaine Clement (from FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS), who lends
an irresistible bad guy charm as a cockatoo named Nigel. Hathaway,
George Lopez, will.I.am and Jamie Foxx all fulfill their roles
perfectly. 

RIO ain't much new, but at least I enjoyed it for what it is. And I
wouldn't mind going back to it during its official release and wallow
in the dazzling scenery again. Here's a movie meant to be done (and
seen) on 3D.
