
I was much moved by Charlie St. Cloud and by Zac Efron in the title
role. It looks like the young man is going out way beyond being a Walt
Disney bubblegum poster boy for pubescent young ladies. 

When we first meet Efron in the title role he looks to be a young man
with a bright future. A scholarship to Stanford is his as he graduates
high school from his New England coastal town where he enjoys sailing
and the companionship of his younger brother Charles Tatan. The two are
rabid Red Sox fans as all New England kids are brought up to be.
Efron's boat is named the Splendid Splinter which everyone in New
England knows is the nickname of Ted Williams. Being much older than
Zac or his character, I actually remember seeing Ted play.

A cruel trick of fate puts the two of them in the path of an oncoming
drunk driver. Both die, but a determined paramedic played by Ray Liotta
brings Efron back.

As per an agreement they made minutes before the crash, Efron and Tatan
still meet in the woods every day to play catch and work on Tatan's
baseball skills. It's all Efron lives for. By some trick of fate he can
communicate and see Tatan, in fact he sees all kinds of dead folks
including a young man he graduated with from high school who was killed
in Iraq. Efron's forgotten Stanford and he now works at the local
graveyard, the better to be near the ones he identifies with. 

I won't go into the rest except that Efron does learn to let the dead
bury the dead. Meeting up with Amanda Crew, another sailing enthusiast
does help. And Liotta now dying of cancer tells Zac that he was saved
for some special purpose.

Two great lessons of life are to be learned in Charlie St. Cloud. First
that we all have some kind of destiny, the trick is to find it and
recognize it. The second is that some people die young and maybe are
meant to so that the rest of us recognize how precious life is and not
to waste it. Having lost any number of people including a sister at a
young age, it's something that is always uppermost in my mind.

Charlie St. Cloud is beautifully filmed with some breathtaking sailing
sequences. The performers are flawless, especially Zac Efron. One thing
I will agree with other reviewers about is that I wish that the role of
the mother of the St. Cloud brothers played by Kim Basinger was more
fully developed. After the death of her younger son, she moves out of
town and you never really learn why.

Despite that minor criticism, Charlie St. Cloud is a moving film that
should be seen by all generations for the life lessons imparted.
<|_=00=_|>
I like movies that are exactly as they claim to be. "Charlie St. Cloud"
is just that, a romantic drama, nothing more and nothing less.

There is nothing profound, although with a few thoughtful dynamics,
it's just the story of a young man (Zac Efron) unable to overcome the
tragic death of his younger brother until he meets a beautiful girl who
shares his same passion for sailing.

The problems are plentiful, with cringe-worthy dialogue, supporting
actors who haven't yet learned how to act, no affecting drama producing
few tears, and there just isn't enough to completely hold your
attention. But yet, because it's a simple love story that doesn't
pretend to be grandiose and doesn't force out-of-place tears, I liked
"Charlie St. Cloud". I found it to be sweet, subdued and modest.

It was also the perfect choice for Zac Efron as he matures in his
acting career. Sure, there are probably a few too many shots of Efron
standing in his jeans and t-shirts staring into the sunset with his
longing, blue eyes, but that is, of course, partly why we would watch
it in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Sherwood's Novel THE DEATH AND LIFE OF CHARLIE ST. CLOUD pretty
much describes this Hallmarky love and spiritualism showcase for teen
idol Zac Efron. Craig Pearce and Lewis Colick adapted the book for the
screen and director Burr Sherwood (known for his other films that are
of this genre) stirs the whipped cream. It is a pretty story with
pretty people filmed in a pretty location (British Columbia) and the
results are pretty predictable, yet when compared to the types of
stories on film that flood the theaters at least this film has gentle
heart and a lack of terror and horror and for that we should be
pleased. 

Charlie St. Cloud (Zac Efron, who holds in own in this rather
implausible role) is a highly regarded young sailor who is wins a
sailing scholarship to Stanford upon graduation from high school. He is
devoted to his younger brother Sam (Charlie Tahan) and his single
mother nurse Claire (Kim Basinger - don't blink or you'll miss her very
brief appearance in the film). One night while Claire is on extra shift
at the hospital Charlie and Sam are in an auto accident: Sam dies, but
Charlie is resuscitated by paramedic Florio Ferrente (Ray Liotta, in
another very brief cameo). Charlie is devastated over Sam's death and
gives up his chances for a life by taking a custodian job in the town
cemetery so he can be near a certain spot where he 'sees' and
communicates with Sam every sunset - a life long promise to never leave
his little brother. Five years pass and Charlie's friend Alistair
(Augustus Prew) - his only other friend Sully (Dave Franco, brother of
actor James Franco) has gone into the military - tries to encourage
Charlie to date, but Charlie's eyes fall on Tess (Amanda Crew), a
fellow sailor from the past, and love begins. Tess decides to take a
long solo voyage in her boat and disappears. Charlie meets the now
cancer-ridden and dying Florio who gives him his St Jude medal and
encourages Charlie to embrace life. Charlie strikes out on a mission to
find the missing Tess and the rest is pretty obvious. 

Though the story is heavy on the saccharine edge and strains
credibility, the team of actors is very fine - especially Zac Efron,
whose presence is on the screen in practically every frame - so the
film ends up being endearing. The cinematography by Enrique Chediak is
gorgeous and the musical score by Rolfe Kent leans heavily on sad love
songs. It is not a profound film though it does dip gently into the
ideas of 'the beyond', but there is something about the honesty of it
all that makes it s a satisfying evening of entertainment. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the book, I could hardly wait for this film to open and
believe me it doesn't disappoint.

Zac Efron does a great acting job as Charlie St. Cloud, a boy who has
just received a sailing scholarship from Stamford. His future is all
but sewn up until he and his brother Sam (played wonderfully by Charlie
Tahan)get into a car accident. Sam and Charlie both die, but a caring
paramedic by the name of Florio Ferrente (another great performance by
Ray Liotta) performs a miracle and is able to bring Charlie back.
Before he returns to the land of the living, Charlie promises Sam that
he will always be there for him, no matter what. And so every day,
Charlie comes back to play catch with Sam. Five years later he has
chucked his scholarship and is now a caretaker at Waterside Cemetery,
so that he can be close to his brother. Everything is going along well,
until he spies a young woman by the name of Tess Carroll (another great
acting job by Amanda Crew) who is getting ready to sail around the
world. He meets her at the cemetery while she is cleaning out her
father's grave and the two form a strong bond, although neither of them
knows it yet.

One day, Florio spots Charlie in the street and tells him that he was
saved for a reason and was given a second chance at life and that
Charlie is just throwing his life away.

After a few days, he spots Tess again at her father's grave and their
bond becomes deeper until the two fall passionately in love. Now
Charlie must choose between the living and the dead and find his second
chance at life.

By the way, Charlie can see the dead because of the promise he made to
his brother before he was brought back to life by Florio. When he
breaks the bond with Sam, he loses the ability to see the dead.

The movie did follow the book closely with slight differences, but all
in all it is a film worth checking out just to marvel at the great
acting job by all. And I am going to recommend reading the beautiful
book The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud by Ben Sherwood. You will
need a hankie for both.

for geniuskentyk...my advice is to read the book..it will explain away
a lot of the things that are missing for you...
<|_=00=_|>
As I watched this movie I felt like I was viewing my own life story...

In 1991 I lost my little brother to a tragic accident as well. The
emotions and inability to continue "living" life felt by Charlie are
the same I had struggled with for many years. I found this movie to be
extremely emotional, heart felt and true to the subject at hand. The
acting of ALL the actors was outstanding, as well as the camera work,
editing, directing, and most of all the writing.

If you like movies with true heart and emotion I highly recommend this
movie as you can tell by my rating of 10. Honestly, I would rate it
even higher than that if I could.

Although my love of this movie is very much inspired by my personal
attachment to the subject, I think anyone would find this movie to be
very touching...
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit, that I never gave much thought of the phenomenon that
was surrounding Zac Efron. The ladies seemed to love him and no one
could have blamed him, if he just kept making the simple romantic
movies, that would please his fan base.

He seems to have other things on his mind though. He is trying to act.
And I have to admit, that I was surprised at how engaging and how
truthful he seemed in this one. I do think he is better than the High
School Musical tag he has stamped on him (which would mean, he is a bad
actor, which frankly I don't think could be said of him).

His character does get a lot of attention from the female characters on
display here, which seems natural. On the other hand, you do have the
female lead in here, that does not seem to get any attention
whatsoever, which makes you wonder if the male "population" in the
movie is blind or into other things. Whatever it is, this is one of the
things that do not feel right. The other being the mixture between the
elements on display here. Let me just tell you, that this isn't neither
your simple romantic movie, nor just pure drama. There is other aspects
to it. I can see though that this might ruin the movie for quite a few
people. Especially if they expected something more straight-forward.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a young man who loses his younger brother to a
traffic accident. He remains locked in a state of grief until he
rekindles with his friend from high school.

"Charlie St. Cloud" is beautifully filmed, with great artistic scenes
and amazing sceneries. Cinematography is great, and many scenes are so
beautiful that they could become postcards. However, the story is not
as good, it is not very engaging. I find the plot unconvincing and the
story telling is rather poor. The romance Charlie and the girl develops
is unconvincing and contrived, and the emotional burden and guilt of
Charlie could have been explored further.
<|_=00=_|>
Charlie St Cloud is the type of movie many people will love to hate.
The plot is simply contrived and the script is somewhat identical to
Shyamalan's film "The Sixth Sense" yet I was very much moved by the
story of Charlie St. Cloud and by Zac Efron in the title role. It looks
like Zac is going out of his way to shred that teenage 'High School
Musical' image that he is now known for.

When we first meet Efron in the title role he looks to be a young man
with a bright future. A scholarship to Stanford awaits as he graduates
high school from his New England coastal town where he enjoys sailing
with his younger brother Charlie Tahan. The two share some heart
warming chemistry as brothers, those who have younger siblings will
understand the brotherly love between the two.

However, a cruel trick of fate puts the two of them in the path of an
oncoming drunk driver. Both die, but a determined, spiritual paramedic
played by Ray Liotta manages to bring Efron back.

As per an agreement they made minutes before the crash, Zac and Charlie
still meet in the woods every day to play catch and work on Charlie's
baseball skills. It's all Efron lives for. By some trick of fate he can
communicate and see his deceased brother. Efron's forgotten Stanford
and he now works at the local graveyard, to be close Charlie so that He
can fulfil the promise he made.

I won't go into it too much except that the climax is something that we
have seen before yet it is still touching and shows that we must learn
that the true value of life is to live and let live. 

I came out of the cinema feeling good and that is what the film is all
about- loving life. My only criticism is that Liotta and Kim
Basinger(as the mother) don't have enough screen time, although i must
say that Liotta still manages to impress even with this small
supporting role. Zac Efron and Charlie Tahan deliver strong
performances as the two brothers and Amanda Crew is pretty decent. The
film is beautifully shot and the scenery is quite breathtaking at
times.

We've seen quite a few romantic dramas this year(Dear John, The Last
Song)- but this has to be one of the most touching(not the most
original i must say) but still, it'll make you feel good inside. So my
advice is go watch the movie or rent it when it comes out on DVD and
don't believe those critics who's job it is to tell us how bad the
movie must be just because it didn't earn $100 million at the box
office.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. It didn't disappoint me at all because I
didn't expect much more than a beautiful love story, pretty scenery,
very good acting, and thought-provoking ideas. I got exactly what I
came for and maybe even a little more. The script is pretty dull, but
the way the movie was filmed and acted made it absolutely amazing the
way I saw it. Absolutely gorgeous scenery and cinematography, original
ideas and scenes (I loved the graveyard scene when Tess and Charlie are
chasing each other around with candle lights and pretty music, there
was nothing at all about it that I'd seen before), very good acting,
and a very beautiful story is what made this movie so great in my eyes. 

Despite how gorgeous Zac Efron is, it is clear he is capable of
above-mediocre acting. He had nearly nothing to work with but made this
movie captivating because of how carefully he played his words and
showed his emotion. Nothing felt forced. The script is so dull but
because of his ability to portray what was meant to be said, it made
the movie ten times better. He is much more than good looks even though
and I know his blue eyes are distracting, but he has a lot of talent. I
think some people don't want to believe that someone can have both
great looks and great talent because they get envious. He has made
astounding career choices and has worked his way to the top, unlike
Miley Cyrus, he has pure talent and heart at what he does, and hasn't
gone all bare-skinned and photo scandal-ish to draw attention away from
his lack of talent. He is grateful for his career and his talent is
shining through. I believe he has a very promising career ahead of him
despite all this silly hatred he is getting. He is a precious gem in my
eyes; both gorgeous and very talented and able to show emotion in such
a real way. The lead actress Amanda Crew did an okay job, she wasn't
terrible, wasn't great. His graveyard friend provided comic relief and
I thought he was funny. 

All in all, I give this movie 10/10 because I went in theaters to see
it twice, I am thoroughly impressed with Zac and the career choices he
has made, I loved how uniquely it was filmed and how original the story
was, and I'm just a sappy hopeless romantic so I love films like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Charlie St. Cloud is a remarkable story about life and love, death and
loss, letting go and moving on. But above all it's about the bond
between two brothers that not even death can break. 

Charlie St. Cloud the movie was not exactly like the book but it did
not disappoint me as a whole,because while it is based on the book, you
also have to appeal to the movie goers and I think they did that
well.For me, having read the book there were a couple things (scenes
and script) that I missed. Iwill point out what I missed but I feel I
first have to comment on the beautiful portrayal of the main character
Charlie St. Cloud by ZacEfron. Even if I had not known who was going to
be playing Charlie in the movie Zac Efron would have been my choice, he
just fits the part.He brought everything that was needed in that
character to the big screen. You really felt the bond between him and
his younger brother Sam who was portrayed by Charlie Tahan (wonderful
performance). AfterSam dies but is caught in the in between, he and
Charlie are still connected, and you need that bond to be strong but
also believable throughout and they did just that. Zac Efron is one of
the best actors out there today in my opinion. Yes he is incredibly
handsome but he is also incredibly talented and in my opinion as the
years go on I think he is just going to become more of a talented actor
and may be even become one of the best actors of all time if he
continues on. I think people should not type cast him in the musical
roles, because while he is great in all of those, he is also amazing in
more serious roles that don't involve singing and dancing (like Me and
Orson Welles and 17 Again... he may do a tiny bit of both in each of
those but you get what I mean, I'm talking the full on musicals) and I
hope he continues to do more of the serious/mature roles like this one
was. I've heard that some critics out there don't feel that Zac got the
emotions across that Charlie goes through; I feel that all those
critics are wrong, I think he got all the emotions across the way that
the book intended them to be and the way that in real life sometimes
you feel in those kind of situations. Zac to me always gets his
emotions across through his beautiful blue eyes, and too me that's
important, because you can tell a lot of what someone is feeling from
their eyes (at least in my opinion). I felt every emotion that he felt,
and to be honest I think every time he cried I cried because it was a
moment when you would and the same goes for his happy moments and so
on, so don't tell me that he didn't get his emotions across because I
felt them all through his acting. All of the actors and actress's
portrayed their characters well, however there were a few characters
from the book that were missing in the movie and in some ways I felt
they were needed, but what can you do. This movie had some incredible
scenery and the way it was captured on film was beautiful. The
soundtrack, which is always important to me, was amazing. I especially
loved the song While We Were Dreaming by Pink Mountaintops. The things
I missed from the book in this film, well there's a scene where Tess
meets and can see Sam and I think it is a pivotal moment in the book
and would have brought more sense to those who watched the movie and
had not read the book. I think they should have taken us on Tess's
journey in her boat when things go wrong, I guess for the movie goers
they thought maybe it would give away too much, I suppose in some ways
it might have. Ray Liotta's character Florio Ferrente to me did not get
enough of a part, he is a key character in the book and I think it
would have given the movie just that much more if he had narrated a bit
at the beginning and end like he seems to do in the book. Some of the
most beautiful words come from his character and I don't think they did
him justice in the movie and that's too bad, I really admired his
character in the book. All in all I think both the book and the movie
are a must read and watch. Until next time! "Qualcuno ti ama."
