
While I always thought Dwayne Johnson (The Rock!) had potential as an
actor, I thought his career choices have been pretty dismal since he
left the world of wrestling. Whether throwaway crap like "The Scorpion
King" or just plain embarrassing stuff like "The Tooth Fairy" (we get
it Dwayne, you can laugh at yourself - how about getting down to
business!), I just never felt compelled to see one of his movies. Until
now.

I could tell from the trailer this one was going to be different.

Faster is a throwback to the merciless action flicks of the 1970s.
Existential in tone. Ruthless in execution. It's kind of a cross
between Death Wish and Vanishing Point. A pure, undiluted revenge drama
that shows Dwayne Johnson really can walk the walk when he wants to.
This isn't G-rated pabulum for the whole family. This is a leather
glove across the chops, R-rated blast from the muzzle of a sawed-off
shotgun. The plot isn't very complex, but the pacing is beautiful, as
is the purity of this amazing movie.

Billy Bob Thornton does a great job too as The Cop, a lowlife drug
addicted, slimy little lawman with 9 days to go before retirement and
one last case to solve. And Oliver Jackson-Cohen is terrific as a
yuppie hit-man with a personal score to settle.

If you like movies that are intent simply in kicking your ass for 90
minutes, you could do a lot worse than Faster. After all these years,
I'm finally a Dwayne Johnson fan.
<|_=00=_|>
To start of, this movie is not groundbreaking and I doubt it is going
to claim to be. It's a simple revenge thriller with a few plot twists.
That's why I did not give it a full score.

But those things aside, this movie was quite fun to watch. Loved how
Dwayne Johnson finally decided to get back to his action roles after
the lame kid movies he had starred in lately. His screen presence was
awesome, and kinda reminded me of the good old times while he was
wrestling.

The music and the setting were awesome, it really did remind me of the
70's revenge thrillers. The entire movie was like an ode to the old
dark and moody revenge movies just as Kill Bill was. I believe they got
the setting and tone of the movie quite right, and the music itself was
awesome. Nothing flashy just melancholy sounding from beginning to end.

The action scenes were quite good since Dwaynes character (The Driver)
just oozed of cold blooded anger and hatred. Making the showdowns quite
interesting and funny at one point as well. The other characters were
entertaining as well, The Killer and The Cop. Each had their own story
going on until they get intertwined with each other as the movie
progresses.

Overall I loved the movie and I feel anyone who is wanting to check out
a action flick this weekend should definitely check this movie out. It
will be worth the money spent if you are looking to be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised by this somewhat. I expected a brainless revenge
thriller. What I got was a nicely crafted caper, a throwback, a homage,
to several genre films.

The storytelling was straight to the point, almost linear. A vengeful
juggernaut-The Rock-gets out of jail and seeks revenge for his murdered
brother. He's as focused as a laser missile. An eclectic cast of
characters are in his way. A strung-out cop out for redemption (Billy
Bob Thornton), a neurotic hit-man and various unsavory people.

I thought this was nice nod to 70s style vengeance driven movies and
somewhat reminiscent of Richard Stark/Donald Westlake's PARKER
character (seen, in its most recent incarnation in PAYBACK, starring
MEL Gibson: one man seeking revenge against fellow criminals). A man
focused on his mission. The Rock is a cold-blood murder machine.
Nothing heroic or even sympathetic about this guy, which makes him
fascinating to watch as he runs down his list.

This movie doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it is a nice cure for the
sugar coated holiday releases flooding our cinemas. A nice balance of
violence, solid acting and some great music provided by THE HEAVY.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) After serving 10 years in prison for bank robbery, Driver
(Dwayne Johnson) has only one mission in life, to avenge the murder of
his older brother who was killed when they were double-crossed after
the heist. Now a free man with the names and addresses in hand, there
is nothing on earth that can stop him from killing all of them.
However, two people are in the hunt to stop him, veteran cop (Billy Bob
Thornton) only days from retiring, and a young hit man (Oliver
Jackson-Cohen), both on Driver's trail. The race is on, and there can
be only one winner.

(My Comment) The story is simple and straight to the point, Driver
wants revenge. Driver gets out of prison after 10 years, and he starts
hunting down the criminals who were responsible for killing his
brother. However, things get complicated when a hit man comes after
him. Not only does he have to avoid the cops, but now he is also a
target. Physically, the Rock is imposing in this film, but he only
speaks about 2 dozen words in the whole movie. The Rock does not have
much dialog, but his tough mannerisms and cold blooded killer facial
expressions are enough. Billy Bob Thornton's performance as the sleazy
cop is excellent. If you want to see an action packed revenge flick,
this is a good one to see. (CBS Films, Run Time 1:35, Rated R)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I thought The Rock had abandoned us for Disney movies until I went to
an early screening of Faster hosted by our local Rock station. 

No spoiler alert necessary because I'll keep this short. This movie is
action packed from the opening scene but has two twist, one a whodunit,
the other about a character's origin, not even hinted at in the
previews.

The plot starts simply enough. The Rock walks or rather runs out of
prison after 10 years and starts hunting down the guys responsible for
killing his brother. Things get complicated when the cops (Billy Bob
Thornton, Carla Gugino) and a playboy-assassin (Oliver Cohen) and his
girlfriend (Maggie Grace, LOST!) start hunting him. There are great
supporting actors like Mike Epps, Moon Bloodgood and Mr. Eko from LOST
along the way.

I enjoyed it, my wife enjoyed it and we are going with her family to
see it again after Thanksgiving lunch.
<|_=00=_|>
Faster does not try to be anything it's not. It is a fast paced action
flick with plausible performances from all round.

I've always liked Thornton as he is very good at playing a drugged out
low life. He is perfect for this role. Forget Thornton though, nothing
fits better than the role "The Rock" played. A cold mean*** man with
big muscles looking for revenge. That's exactly who the Rock is and I
could easily say there was no better man for the job! Oliver
Jackson-Cohen as the hit-man also played a decent role and I really
liked the addition to his role of being "challenged." Maybe I'm not
expressing myself very well, but what I think I'm trying to say is that
Faster didn't feel corny in any scenes. Like most action films go
waaaaaay overboard or some try to mix too much drama into it when it's
supposed to be an action flick. I didn't feel any negative element like
that linger around in Faster. It's solid action that's believable and
although it does have some drama in it, it's woven in quite well, but
in any case, the action overpowers any other element the movie may have
to offer.

Throughout the movie I was actually gripped with tension and it also
has a good twist at the end, though the smarter movie goer would
probably pick it up early on.

I really can't say anything bad about this film besides the fact it's
just an action movie, and that's not a negative because that's what it
set out to be and that's what it is. No academy performances, no
sensational script (but much better than other actions movies because
like I said no corny scenes, all plausible), no dodgy romance scenes.

By the way, without giving too much of a spoiler, I also really enjoyed
the fact how Faster developed a scenario where I expected at least one
character's life to turned to ruins, but instead, an unexpected but
easily believable resolution was found. Everyone got what they
deserved, which is great, and I also got what I deserved: enjoyable
action! By the way, this movie no where near deserves a 6.7 rating on
IMDb. I know action titles aren't given too much credit, but Faster
deserves to be at least 7, probably about 7.2.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the first movie our family went to in a long time, and it was
so worth it! My boys said it was excellent.

The plot was simple enough, bad guy wants revenge for the murder of a
loved one. In all honesty, it didn't seem to need a wide range of
acting from Dwayne Johnson (aka, The Rock). I should rephrase that; it
wasn't so much the dialog, but his mannerisms and facial expressions
that said it all!

The movie wasn't just about revenge, it also looked into how he got to
be the way he was... the way he was treated growing up. It talked about
forgiveness & redemption. 

I say it's about time The Rock (I will always know him as that!) got
back to what he does best, Action/Adventure. Like The Rundown he did
with Sean Scott. 

All in All, I would give this movie a B++
<|_=00=_|>
I went expecting a basic action film. I did not get it.

What we got was a man's movie - and in this reviewer's opinion one of
the best in recent memory.

This it is not yet another film about revenge - it is a film about
vengeance, and that's another animal entirely. If the true essence of
great story-telling and myth is that it takes us on a journey that is
on the surface almost simplistic, but leaves the audience more by the
end; then Faster succeeds and succeeds way beyond expectations.

In side-stepping the current vogue for mindless action it does hark
back to the 70s - and the look and feel are very true to those roots.
Finally, we might be leaving aside the lowbrow sarcastic sadism that
has ruled action films for a decade now and getting to action film that
engages rather than kills to entertain. 

Director George Tillman keeps the speech sparse and the direction too.
While the film overhypes the testosterone levels through the hardware
and the subplots there is an overall spareness to this that lifts the
film. Finally, it doesn't establish that there may be a world beyond
vengeance too soon. In the dialog between a truly excellent Adewale
Akinnuoye-Agbaje and Johnson the film goes from one level to another
entirely. For this reviewer, the Gaytons have written in that exchange
one of the most iconic scenes on film in recent memory. And if this
sounds like raving, then it is because it deserves it: brilliant
writing and stone-hard action combine to give the audience an
experience to remember.

This is a film that needed a star to really work, and in Dwayne Johnson
it has found one. He creates a character that is the closest I've seen
to the uncompromising spirit of Clint Eastwood in Unforgiven and Dirty
Harry in quite a while. Here, there is genuine steel in the eye. This
is tough without the token quips and ironic smiles. This is tough, mean
tough, gutsy, down to business, get the job done, film-making for men,
tough.

Without a doubt a man's film - and one of the best in recent memory -
and while Johnson's clowning may have been a strength in some previous
films the uncompromising hardness he shows here has the potential to
make him a real A-lister.

Go be surprised as we were.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was simply awesome, to put it in a few words. The Rock has
been in some pretty terrible Disney films in the past, everyone thought
he had sold out. This movie just proves, Dwayne Johnson, isn't a sell
out. This was simply his best film yet. You know lots of people also
thought, that a man from WWE who wanted to see if he could act, would
not make it big. Well you were all wrong, he is a pretty descent actor,
he is not terrible and not bad, he is excellent.

The movie storyline, is a revenge plot. After a bank robbery, Dwayne
Johnson's character, "Driver", loses his brother in gang like activity,
so he seeks his revenge on all those responsible, for his brothers
death. In his way is Billy Bob Thorton, a cop looking to put Driver
down.

I love that in the movie there are really no full names, Dwayne's
character, is named only Driver. Billy Bob Throton's character is only
titled as "Cop". I thought this movie was well thought out, well
designed, and well acted. I honestly had thought this film was just a
movie that you see once, and probably don't see it again, but, I
probably will get this movie on blu ray when it is released on blu ray
and DVD. So this movie is a 9 out of 10 for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Driver (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) has just completed a dime in the
slammer and is looking for revenge against those who not only put him
there, but also killed his brother. With a hit list in hand he driver
through the desert of Nevada in search of his targets while also being
pursued by a contract killer (Oliver Jackson-Cohen) and a veteran cop
(Billy Bob Thornton).

The Rock isn't as strong an actor as he is built. Physically he's
imposing, but much of the film leaves him short on spoken material. I'd
call this a good call given that his most dramatic scenes aren't
believable. Making up for his silence are the creatively named Cop and
Killer who both explore relationships and contemplate the bookends of
careers.

From a genre-free perspective Faster has the needed pieces to make for
some compelling cinema. Unfortunate for the ticket buyer, a likely
action connoisseur, Faster has very little action. Driver's checklist
is a breeze; most of his prospective victims put up zero fight
whatsoever. When the bad guys aren't even trying it's difficult for me
to get excited. I've had tougher times finishing grocery lists. 

Then there's the story involving Killer. Whatever stoic, forceful
appeal Driver displays is contrasted by the arrogance of Killer. This
is fine by most measures but Killer never lives up to the hype painted
around him. It seems that the title comes from his exclamation that
Driver is a faster draw with a pistol, but it would have been just as
descriptive to call him inaccurate. This man of adventure is willing to
concede that a getaway driver betters him with a gun; I'd rather not
tell that to my concerned girlfriend if I were him. I never got the
feeling of the game between the two and a highflying car stunt from the
trailer, which was absent from the finished product, could hint at a
more involving struggle between the characters.

Faster is directed by George Tillman Jr. with high energy. The general
look of the film is a slightly more colorized, bleach bypass film look
of many recent grungy movies. The editing is crisp and CGI use is
limited to being tastefully unobtrusive. Jokes and gags are few in
number but every once in a while one crops up to lighten the mood.
Overall, very strong pacing with some well incorporated flashbacks and
slow motion.

The lack of a classical showdown really hurts Faster, which otherwise
measures up as one of the best action/revenge films of recent years.
It's getting late in his career for Dwayne to be learning the ropes of
what should be his bread and butter, but it's good to see him try.
