
Having loved Aardman's other work, especially Wallace and Gromit,
Creature Comforts, Chicken Run and Shaun the Sheep, I was much looking
forward to The Pirates! And I found myself loving it. Apart from
sagging slightly in the pace in the middle with a couple of scenes that
could've done with more punch perhaps, it has all the attributes that
made me love Aardman in the first place.

For instance, The Pirates! is a marvellous looking film, you could
really tell that a lot of creativity and effort went into it. The
colours and backgrounds are plentiful and rich with always something
interesting to look at, and the character designs are appealing with
the title character reminding of a youthful Wallace with hair and a
beard. The 3D is one of the rare instances where it enhances the
visuals and action rather than detract from it.

Theodore Shapiro's music is enough to rouse the spirit, and does very
well conveying a sense of adventure. The songs featured are fun and
memorable. I also loved the crispness and wit of the dialogue managing
to appeal to children and adults alike, and the story is exciting with
lots of charm and heart. The characters appeal because of their
larger-than-life personalities, true the names are on the generic
side(Pirate Captain, Pirate with gout) but that was probably the
intention. I did enjoy seeing the likes of Charles Darwin and Queen
Victoria as well, and they especially Queen Victoria added a lot to the
film.

As for the vocal cast, the cast itself was one of the film's main
attractions and the voice work is first rate. Hugh Grant shows
impeccable comic timing, and Salma Hayak voices Cutlass Liz with lots
of sass. Jeremy Piven shows that he can do wonderfully with a character
that is strongly-written and provides a good contrast to Grant's Pirate
Captain. Brendan Gleeson and Brian Blessed give rousing turns, David
Tennant's Charles Darwin charms and Imelda Staunton voices Queen
Victoria as if she were born to do it.

Overall, Aardman does it again, a wonderful family film that anybody
could enjoy. 9/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Pirates! An Adventure with Scientists or Band of Misfits as it is known
outside the UK for some reason, is the latest stop-motion feature from
Aardman Animations, the studio behind the likes of Wallace and Gromit
and Chicken Run. It is based on the first two novels in the Pirates!
Series by Gideon Defoe.

Set in 1837, the story follows the adventures of a pirate captain
called Pirate Captain (Hugh Grant) in his attempts to win the Pirate of
the Year competition for the first time. Despite being mostly deluded
and incompetent he is actually kind at heart and has the respect of his
crew. He is really up against it through when it comes to winning the
competition because he is a pretty rubbish pirate and is up against the
cream of the piratical world which includes Cutlass Liz (Salma Hayek)
and Black Bellamy (Jeremy Piven). While attempting to rob a ship,
Pirate Captain has a chance meeting with Charles Darwin (David Tennant)
who notices that the ship's parrot, Polly is in fact the world's last
Dodo. Darwin, the Captain and his crew travel to London to show the
Scientific community their discovery but while there risk bumping into
the staunchly anti-pirate, Queen Victoria (Imelda Staunton).

As you'd expect from an Aardman production, the film is full of both
subtle and not so subtle humour. One of the first things that made me
laugh was the names of Pirate Captain's crew. There is The Pirate with
a Scarf (Marin Freeman), so named because he wears a scarf, The Pirate
with Gout (Brendan Gleeson) who is fat, the Albino Pirate (Russell
Tovey) and the best of them all, the Surprisingly Curvaceous Pirate
(Ashley Jensen) who is a woman in a fake beard. They are great names
which bought a smile to my face each time they were used. A lot of the
humour comes from the book on which the film is based but it is
liberally laced with Aardman's trademark subtlety. Every shop sign or
wanted poster features a pun and there are nods to the likes of
Blackadder. It's the sort of film that will take several viewings in
order to see all of the jokes.

The animation is top notch, as it should be. Aardman are the masters of
their art and having dabbled in stop-motion animation myself, I
understand the time and effort that must go into making a stop-motion
feature. Aardman has come a long way from the rough and ready clay
models of The Wrong Trousers but the models still maintain their
distinctive style and it is obvious that care has been taken during
each of the millions of frames.

The voice cast is excellent. Most of the actors are instantly
recognisable but David Tennant puts on a convincing accent for his
interpretation of Charles Darwin. The actors help to make the scrip
very funny and I'm pleased to see that the filmmakers have stuck with a
mostly British cast and stayed away from an A-List star.

The soundtrack is enjoyable and uses songs which are not only great but
fit the story perfectly. You can expect to hear the likes of The Clash,
Flight of the Concords and Blur.

While my girlfriend, most of the adult audience and myself enjoyed the
film, the young children in the audience seemed a little bored by it. I
don't think there was enough in the film to keep the young children
entertained and a lot of the humour was going over their head. It is
almost like the film has been pitched at an adult audience, which is
fine and worked, but with a U rating and an Easter release, lots of
children will go and may be disappointed.

This is not Aardman's best work but it was an enjoyable 88 minutes that
featured plenty of laughs and a fairly interesting but in the end throw
away plot. I would definitely go back to watch the sequel and will
watch it again when it is inevitably shown on TV during a future
Christmas period.

www.attheback.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Aardman Animations has probably been more consistent than Pixar,
especially of late, yet the stop-motion powerhouse doesn't get half the
attention. "The Pirates! Band of Misfits" didn't buck the box-office
trend, but it proves that even with the most generic of premises,
Aardman knows how to appeal to a diverse audience.

Intent on winning the prestigious Pirate of the Year award, the
generically named Pirate Captain (Hugh Grant) scours the ocean in
search of treasure with his deeply loyal crew of ham-loving pirates.
When famed pirates Black Bellamy (Jeremy Piven) and Cutlass Liz (Salma
Hayek) burst his bubble, however, he becomes desperate. After hijacking
the boat of scientist Charles Darwin (David Tennant), he discovers his
beloved parrot Polly isn't a parrot after all, and could win him the
fortune he seeks to make his Pirate of the Year dream come true. But to
do so, he'll have to travel to London, where the pirate-hating Queen
Victoria (Imelda Staunton) awaits.

If you're looking for a film that epitomizes British humor, "The
Pirates" is exactly that. The jokes are silly, clever and come in
rapid-fire fashion, many under the radar. Few animated films balance
pure slapstick and wit the way this film does, which is a Hallmark of
the best family films. "Despicable Me" is the closest recent example.
Most films that do both deliver them in segmented fashion, whereas
certain scenes are more physical for the kiddies and others smaller
moments are for the adults. "The Pirates" can get both demographics
laughing at the same time.

That said, "The Pirates" doesn't deliver that many belly laughs for the
adults. It prefers being quirky and totally silly and it commits to
this style early and often. Characters such as The Albino Pirate (Anton
Yelchin) spout the most absurd things out of their mouth, but because
writer Gideon Defoe never yields, what could come off as bungling
stupidity comes off as funny bungling stupidity. 

The film moves at a brisk pace, perhaps because a lot of the traveling
by boat happens in 2D animated sequences on a treasure map (though one
of the pirate's jobs is to throw red discs out the back of the boat so
that red dots show up on the map). The major sequences move quickly
into one another, fitting some positive character and theme-building
moments in between. The result is a well-structured little film with
plenty of big, physical adventure and a decent enough amount of heart.

Nothing about the story is that emotionally moving, though Martin
Freeman voicing Pirate Captain's No. 2 man gives it a good go as the
only logical or thoughtful character in the entire film who often calls
Pirate Captain out on his impulsive and ignorant behavior. Instead,
"The Pirates" succeeds largely on its potent sense of danger, anchored
by the terrifying Queen Victoria who couldn't have been equipped with a
better voice than that of Staunton.

Grant does surprisingly strong and practically unrecognizable voice
work as the Pirate Captain, a character both likable and one you can
only shake your head at some times. He's the perfect lead for a silly
family film such as this. He's heroic and embodies good leadership
qualities (hence why his crew adores him), but in child-like fashion he
often forgets what's most important, which allows for an easy way for
the kids to access the thematic points of the story.

So much of "The Pirates," however, will go over kids' heads, though not
in some inappropriate way. Rather, much of what makes the movie so
funny is how it plays with pirate genre conventions and film
conventions in general, which kids obviously have no concept of. Start
to finish, it never ceases to find the clever thing to do or say.

Simply, "The Pirates" will have audiences of all ages grinning from ear
to buccaneer.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Actually easy to watch, if you forgive the pun. More to the point
though, it seems to be fairly difficult to convince an American
audience to watch animation movies that have that weird British humor
in it. Just take the omission of Arthur Christmas as one big example of
this. An omission at the Oscars that is, that is just out of my
understanding and reach. A wonderful family movie (far better than some
of the nominated animated pictures), it didn't get the credit it
deserved.

Pirates will have a hard time too. Not only the misfits of the story
(they'll have to overcome quite some obstacles), but also the movie
itself. If you don't mind an animated movie that actually requires you
to use your brain while you watch it, then this could be for you.
<|_=00=_|>
The Pirates! In An Adventure With Scientists is the latest film from
Aardman animations. It mixes mostly stopmotion with some CGI
backgrounds. The film sees The Pirate Captain looking to win Pirate of
the Year Award, only problem is him and his band of misfits are the
most useless pirates around. After bumping into Charles Darwin, he
identifies their 'parrot' as a dodo and promises them riches back in
London. Pirates has a very quaint sense of humour, with jokes that
elicit gentle chuckles rather than full blown belly laughs. The jokes
range from plays on words, to daft sight gags. The animation is typical
Aardman and lends itself surprisingly well to the action genre. The
vocal work is wonderful with Gleeson and Tovey being particular
standouts. I wasn't really impressed by the use of modern songs, as
they often seemed very obvious (London Calling) or just out of place
(Flight of the Conchords). The story seems a bit mixed in terms of both
pacing and plotting, which makes sense as it was based on two books. I
would suggest watching the original British version as some actors have
had their lines dubbed over, and some of the 'ruder' jokes have been
changed.
<|_=00=_|>
We haven't seen a full length clay animated Aardman film in a while.
Their recent full length films are CGI. They are not bad though but we
kind of miss seeing their stop-motion animation in the big screen with
characters showing off their teeth and some visible fingerprints on the
models. After six years, their traditional animation returns to cinema
by this movie, The Pirates! Band of Misfits. There isn't much of a
change. It's not as brilliant as their other films but the delight and
excitement are still there.

Happily, the studio still has its greatness. Sadly, there are no
"Easter Eggs" from their other films as they usually do. It doesn't
quite matter though. At least they recaptured the fun and it has a big
heart. The story is just simple but it's quite a ride. The connections
with the history is silly but also kind of hilarious. Its ludicrousness
already makes a good joke. The voice acting is predictably good. Hugh
Grant gives The Pirate Captain a delightful personality. Martin Freeman
is just wonderful as his backup. Russell Tovey and David Tennant also
lightens the adventure. Imelda Staunton makes a threatening villain in
this movie.

Their stop motion animation is always magnificent. They can give these
clay models a wonderful personality by their looks and facial
expressions. It also has the trademark character design with them
showing off their teeth. We know that these are just clay and some
other stuff, but even if they are small, it still can make a big and
marvelous adventure. Everything is crazy and fun. The jokes are clever.
There's hardly anything new about the film but it's still good.

It's just great to see another stop-motion clay animated film from
Aardman in the big screen, but this time it's in 3D. The 3D is pretty
good, but even in 2D the film is still wonderful to watch. These kinds
of family films are rare these days. While kids these days like movies
with talking animals and some other mediocre stuff, this one uses the
ludicrous elements in a smart way. Like I said, it's not new but it's
still an exciting and enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>
Ardman Animations and Sony Pictures Animation have done a absolutely
fantastic job on Pirates.

First off lets talk about this films unique visual style (combining
delightfully old school stop motion clay animation with modern CGI) It
looks absolutely gorgeous, very similar to chicken run but with a lot
more variation in terms of scenery and characters.

I had the pleasure of seeing it in 2D so while i cant comment on the
additional effects that 3D would have brought it still looked
fantastic, the colors, brightness and cinematography where perfect, no
weird HD noise here, absolutely flawless camera work, this is not your
average 2D film ,especially if your cinema has Digital 2-4K Projectors,
mine did and it looked awesome.

As for the story, well suffice to say it doesn't stray far from the
average Aardman stock but there is absolutely nothing wrong with it,
the characters stand out much more than they have done in the past and
the writing, comedy and bombastic style are very much still intact.

If you want a funny, pretty and interesting movie to keep your kids and
you very much entertained for the 2Hours~ it takes to watch this
wonderful movie nothing in this would should stop you 

5/5 Visuals 5/5 Sound 5/5 Story

= 5/5 Stars overall

SEE THIS MOVIE
<|_=00=_|>
The main reason why lots of people will still end up feeling
disappointed with this movie is because it's not up to par with
Aardman's other work, such as the Wallace & Gromit series and "Chicken
Run". But really, the movie in itself is far from a terrible one,
though it still definitely has its weaknesses.

Good news is that the movie still features some of the very typical
Peter Lord and Nick Park humor in it (though Nick Park wasn't involved
with this particular movie). It features lots of very quick and clever
visual jokes and some often great and funny dialog, all done in a very
British style. And that's also a joke this entire movie relies heavily
one; the fact that the pirates in this movie are all being very
British, with their mannerisms and accents. This was something that I
appreciated but I still did wish that the movie would had done some
more stuff with it all.

For a pirates movie, that besides is also made for a younger audience,
the story doesn't really ever feel adventurous enough. It doesn't take
you to far off or exotic places and the action, which is something I
normally really love in Aardman's movies, is mostly missing in this
movie. Not that the movie is boring or anything, it's too short and
fast paced for that but it still is all a bit lacking and prevents this
movie from ever truly becoming a great one.

There just isn't really anything that stands out about this movie at
all. Also its characters are being somewhat shallow and you just don't
ever feel involved enough with them, or the overall movie. Some of the
characters besides get terribly underused and the movie also really
could had used a good, fun, strong villain in it.

But oh well, most important thing is that I at least was entertained by
it, for almost its entire duration and the movie genuinely made me
laugh. In that regard you simply just can't call this movie a bad one,
even though it's being sort of disappointing still, in some
departments.

7/10 

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
The Pirates! Band of Misfits is a terrific movie with a very well
developed storyline and a stellar voice cast. It's a very enjoyable
film for the whole family, the animation is stunning, seeing Aardman
with their first claymation movie since Wallace & Gromit, they've had
great success with work such as Arthur Christmas and Flushed Away, but
the computer animation takes away from the magic of these movies,
thankfully the characters are entirely made from clay here, with an
outstanding voice cast to match, including Hugh Grant in one of my
favourite roles he's ever had. One thing I think the movie is really
lacking is depth, there isn't enough of a relationship evident between
The Pirate Captain and his crew, particularly Number 2, I felt a
friendship between these characters should have been shown, it would
have added an extra layer to the pirates that I think definitely could
have worked. It's a very funny movie, it had me in stitches many times,
whether it be some of the ridiculous jokes about Charles Darwin, the
female pirate, or a joke about leprosy, it has enough humour that will
please both kids and adults, more so than any other Aardman movie I
feel, particularly the main character will probably speak to an older
audience more so than children. Beautifully animated, a fantastic voice
cast and very likable characters, I would recommend The Pirates! Band
of Misfits to anyone looking for a good family film. 

The Pirate Captain sets out to defeat his rivals for the Pirate of the
Year award.
<|_=00=_|>
What I liked about The Pirates! was how it was whimsical. What I didn't
like what the fact that whimsical was pretty much all this film was.
It's a good film to take the family to, but it doesn't prove to be all
that memorable. It offers merely a few good laughs and a little genre
satire.

As a pirate film, it certainly could've used a bit more daring do, to
accompany the self mockery and also to compensate for the problem of
having surprisingly one dimensional characters. Take a film like last
years Rango, which demonstrated an ability to riff on its genre while
generating an honest and robust sense of adventure which would
categorize a serious Western. This film, lacks that bit of robustness;
it's all whim.

For an hour, I thought The Pirates did a good job of appealing to all
ages in its humour, but the climactic act takes things sailing in the
wrong direction. Suddenly the movie becomes surprising juvenile and
childish. In addition to ending somewhat abruptly, The Pirates leaves a
few plot elements without a payoff. 

The finished product ends up feeling surprisingly shorter than it was,
and it all seemed a little light hearted to elevate it beyond the level
of weekend entertainment. I love pirates, and I always have, so I felt
a little let down, but there's probably enough for a young audience.
