
This movie is not gripping {Inception}. This movie will not keep you
guessing {Now You See Me}. This movie is not Oldman/Ford material and
why they took the job is beyond me. If you are 25 or younger it's a
great date movie (because there's time to make out as the film drags in
several spots). It doesn't twist and turn and the revelations are
minimal and far from making the audience gasp. Four out of ten stars
may be generous. Good-looking stars and block-busting legends does not
a good movie make; much less a great movie. Though I would like to get
hold of that ring-tone. Character development was sloppy and dialog was
quite pedantic.
<|_=00=_|>
Thankfully, Gary Oldman can make almost any film bearable and his
portrayal here of a ruthless, corrupt CEO is just about the only thing
that this derivative movie has going for it. He manages to infuse a
one-dimensional character with at least one more dimension.

The script is so full of hackneyed clichés that I felt like I was
watching a Dan Brown novel. You have to assume that the writer's entire
experience of the corporate world is based on a combination of Occupy
Movement manifestos and Oliver Stone movies. Liam Hemsworth has
evidently starred in something call the Hunger Games where, I have to
assume, he was hired for his looks and not his acting chops.

August is usually the doldrums when it comes to movie releases and this
dud simply proves the rule to which Blue Jasmine is the exception.
<|_=00=_|>
"The lights always look brighter across the river." After saying the
wrong things, Adam (Hemsworth) an up-and-coming employee at a powerful
corporation finds himself and his friends out of a job. After the owner
Nicolas Wyatt (Oldman) recruits him to spy on rival Jock Goddard (Ford)
to find out what his company is coming up with Adam finds himself stuck
in the middle of a dangerous game. When he wants out he realizes that
it's not just his life is threatened unless he completes his task. I
was looking forward to watching this for two reasons. Harrison Ford and
Gary Oldman, also Richard Dreyfuss is in this but in a lesser role. I
cannot recall a movie they have been in that has been bad (Kingdom of
the Crystal Skull was bad but its still Indiana Jones so I can't hate
it and I blame Lucas for that anyway). I did find out how to mess up a
movie with those two legendary actors...add baby Thor (Liam Hemsworth).
I'm not saying he was a bad actor in this because it wasn't terrible
but when you have those two in a movie and you make baby Thor the main
focus you have screwed up somewhere. I'd compare this to the movie Son
Of No One in the way that you have Ray Liotta and Al Pacino and you
make Channing Tatum the focus. Nothing personal against Hemsworth or
Tatum but when you have such high caliber actors why waste them? As far
as this movie goes the scenes with Oldman and Ford are amazing as
expected, as far as the rest goes it was slow, a little boring and not
exciting at all. With the plot being about the seedy underworld of the
cellphone app industry though you don't have much to work with.
Overall, a movie that could have been so much better but ended up being
almost not worth seeing. It pains me to do this but I give it a C.
<|_=00=_|>
What a misleading title for a movie? Nobody's even paranoid in this
movie at all so calling it Paranoia doesn't really make sense to me.
Instead, they could've titled it Generic Conveniences. Know why?
Because everything in this movie is written in so conveniently for the
characters to succeed in the most generic way. So, I guess you can tell
it's not a very likable movie. Before seeing this movie, the premise
sounded pretty cool. One guy is spying on a company for a rival company
but not everything goes according to plan and then stuff happens. Plus,
the CEOs of the companies are played by none other than two of the best
actors in the business! We got Gary Oldman, one of the most diverse
actors of modern cinema, and Harrison Ford (Indiana Jones & Han Solo:
'nough said). On top of that, it stars Thor's brother, Liam Hemsworth,
who's good in The Expendables 2 and The Hunger Games, but this could
have been his breakout role as a leading actor! Sadly, it's not.

Hemsworth's character in this movie is so unlikable; the only reason an
individual would enjoy him in this movie is because he's an attractive
guy. However, his acting in this movie is pretty bad. I found myself
comparing him to Taylor Lautner's performance in Abduction but at least
with that movie we knew it was gonna be bad. Just as bad as his acting
are the choices made by his character. The whole plot is put into
motion because he got fired from a company and then he decides to go
out clubbing with the credit card that's issued by the company he got
fired from that he still luckily has! How stupid is that! And then,
through a sequence of events, they choose him of all people to be a
spy; this irresponsible guy who just goes out clubbing after he's
fired? Wow. The writing in this movie clearly is off-putting, but we'll
get to that later. The chicks, too, that Hemsworth gets with in this
movie are really weird as well. One tries playing hard to get even
though he already got with her, while the other chick tries to seduce
him while he's already trying to seduce her. The only semi-redeeming
qualities of this movie are that Gary Oldman and Harrison Ford actually
try in this movie. It's undeniable that they're phenomenal actors, and
they are, for the most part, good in this movie for what they're given.
Nonetheless, they're given crap dialogue and stupid plot points. I
cannot bag on the writing of this movie enough; it is so bad. The
dialogue is unrealistic and not enjoyable, while the plot is so
convoluted and uninteresting that I kept wanting to stop watching the
movie.

Additionally, the directing of this movie is a huge weakpoint. It
looked like a made-for-TV movie from the '90s. The directing and
camera-work were horrible. Sometimes there was a person talking but
half their face was off the screen. In another sequence, Hemsworth is
running like a little girl, flailing his arms around and whatnot.
There's no purpose for him to be running like that; who said that was
okay? It's funny seeing how stupid it is, but it's not even supposed to
be funny. And with it being a spy thriller with convoluted twists,
you'd think that it'd be unpredictable, right? Well it's not. It had
those cliché moments like when he has to break into a vault and he's
failed two out of three attempts, with the next failed attempt
triggering the alarms. And then it tries to build tension in that
moment, but you already know he's gonna be alright and his last attempt
is gonna get through. The movie has no suspense whatsoever, despite
trying to be a suspenseful summer thriller. It's not suspenseful
because you always know what's gonna happen and don't really even care
for the characters. It's not summer because it's boring and
uninteresting rather than being fun. And it's not a thriller because
there are absolutely no thrills. The only thing remotely okay about
this movie are the performances of Gary Oldman and Harrision Ford, and
that sometimes even gets old since Ford never gets the chance to say
"Get off my plane!" It's not worth seeing in the theatre or even worth
renting. It's one of those movies that will be on cable and you'll have
to think about if you actually have nothing better to do than invest
your time in it. But you'll probably end up passing anyways
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch this movie because it has Gary Oldman or Harrison Ford,
you won't be alone, but you may be in for a disappointment, I'm sorry
to say. Firstly they don't have much screen time and the time they do
have seems to have been filmed in a hurry with little effort put into
it by anyone.

The main character is that of Liam Hemsworth, who plays Adam Cassidy;
the best he has going for him is that he a good looking guy. I didn't
find the character very convincing, unlike the part of his dad played
by Richard Dreyfuss, but his lines might as well have been written on a
napkin. What a waste of talent by writer and director here.

What you might like are the fancy cars and great settings as well as
the secondary roles of Kevin and Allison, played respectively by Lucas
Till and Angela Sarafyan. It's all so sad that a plot, especially the
ending, could have been so much more, I could see the possibilities I
did not see on screen.
<|_=00=_|>
"Privacy. Absolute myth. There's no such thing."

The film starts off on the wrong foot and never manages to get on
track. In the very opening scene you have Liam Hemsworth using voice
over narration explaining to us what we are about to see, and you
realize that you are going to watch a clichéd unoriginal action
thriller. Then there is a scene where Gary Oldman's character is
looking at some art pieces with Liam and he mentions how Picasso once
said that there are no original ideas, that everything is either copied
or stolen. You kind of get a sense of a similar thing going on with
this script. Paranoia is an action thriller that seems recycled with no
fresh ideas and unfortunately lacks thrills. The script was adapted by
Jason Dean Hall (Spread) and Barry Levy (Vantage Point) from Joseph
Finder's novel, but nothing about it feels inspiring or original. It is
a shame because I was excited to get to see Harrison Ford and Gary
Oldman face off once again, but Paranoia easily belongs on my worst
films of 2013 list mainly because these talented actors can't do
anything to improve a weak script. Paranoia gets half a star for Amber
Heard who looks stunning despite not adding anything to the story, and
another star for Oldman and Ford's presence alone. I could forgive the
uninspiring script if at least this technological thriller actually had
some thrills, but it doesn't. There aren't any interesting thrills
either and the narrative is pretty straight forward and predictable.

Adam Cassidy (Liam Hemsworth) has been working for an important
technological company known as Wyatt Corporation for the past six
years. He hasn't been able to ascend the corporate ladder the way he
pictured it as he continues to be an entry level employee, but he and
his team are expecting a break through when given the opportunity to
present their next project to the boss, Nicolas Wyatt (Gary Oldman).
The presentation doesn't go as planned and Adam is left unemployed
along with the rest of his team. Feeling bad about the way things
turned out, Adam invites them to a fancy club where they use the
company's credit card. The next day Adam is called back to Wyatt's
office as he is confronted for his crime. Taking advantage of Adam's
hunger for wealth and power, Wyatt recruits him to spy on his nemesis:
Jock Goddard (Harrison Ford). Goddard happens to run another billion
dollar tech company which is his biggest competition. Wyatt wants Adam
to win Jock's trust and discover what they are working on, and in
return he promises him the life he has always dreamed of. Blinded by
greed Adam accepts and soon will find himself way in over his head.

Richard Dreyfuss has a small role in this film as well and his presence
only reminds us that a film focusing on him or the other secondary
characters such as Oldman and Ford, would be so much better. Instead
they allow Hemsworth to play the lead role and he simply doesn't have
that on screen charisma to carry a film on his own. I don't think he's
a bad actor, but he needs stronger material to keep the audience's
interest. He is just outclassed in this film by the other talented
actors and we are left out wanting to see more of them. Another issue I
had with Paranoia is that the plot doesn't make much sense and it is so
dull that it allows you to begin to think too much about it and find
all sort of holes. Robert Luketic has just directed his third straight
flop after the disappointing Killers and The Ugly Truth. I will defend
him for 21, which was a film that at least kept me entertained, but his
latest efforts have been really disappointing. Paranoia might just top
them all; stay away from this film.
<|_=00=_|>
With a title like "Paranoia," I expected suspicion, suspense, maybe
even a cool chase scene, but this movie not only lacks the
characteristics its title suggests, but is really devoid of any depth.
It seems to be a vehicle to see Liam Hemsworth shirtless as much as
possible, as well as in some gorgeous suits.

Amid a lot of techie razzle-dazzle, the plot is rather thin and
predictable and there is absolutely NO character development, except a
small amount for Richard Dreyfuss, who seems to be the most interesting
character in the movie. It was nice to see him in this role.

Harrison Ford doesn't look good with a shaved head. Reminded me of Mr.
Magoo without the glasses.

Not a bad movie, but certainly not a thriller and definitely
forgettable
<|_=00=_|>
So you know how Swiss cheese is full of holes?? That is exactly what
you will be tasting if you are going to watch this movie. 

We basically with comments above (poor acting except Ford and Oldman,
below standard story plot, empty dialogs, etc...). We just wanted to
point out how so many parts in the movie lack logic and basic common
sense. For example:

Example 1: Adam gets completely drunk and wakes up freshly groomed with
his hair are perfectly combed, and no hangover whatsoever the next
morning. Really??

Example 2: If there are cameras in his Adam's dad's house, how come
Wyatt did not see that the FBI came to the house and heard the
conversation?

Example 3: He's in bed sleeping and while Emma goes take a shower, he
quickly gets up to steal Emma's files from her computer... And he has
the time to put on pants?? When the plan is to run back into bed for
when she comes out of the shower?

Example 4: Towards the end, after Adam steals Emma's phone and
fingerprint to rob Eikon Occura, how did Emma get into his apartment?
He sure didn't give his keys away....

Example 5: how in the world did he have Goddard's sports car as a
"rental" after his whole ordeal with the FBI? Did he have money to
throw away when he still had to pay for his dad's hospital bills? Or
did those fly away just like the logic of this movie...

The biggest question is: why on earth would Harrison Ford and Gary
Oldman decide to join the cast? Money, money or money?

The second biggest question is: what man walks around with one hand in
his pocket? Does he think this is Project Runway?
<|_=00=_|>
A thriller about the dark world of tech business giants, with big shot
start like Gary Oldman and Harrison Ford, what could go wrong, right?
Well, with this movie, almost everything did. It's slow, boring,
repetitive and overall just disappointing.

Adam (Liam Hensworth) is a programmer (I think, because character
development apparently wasn't a priority in this movie) who gets stuck
in the middle of a feud between two tech giants, Wyatt and Goddard,
played by Gary Oldman and Harrison Ford. And that's about as deep as
the story goes. There's some background as to the rivalry between Wyatt
and Goddard and a hard-to-believe love story between Adam and one of
Goddard's executives, but overall, the film feels like an unfinished
job, with a lot of potential, but no real charm to it.

I've got to accept the movie has some good things worth mentioning.
Gary Oldman is great, as expected, in his limited screen time, and the
final scenes are actually pretty good, but all in all this was not a
good movie, and I would not recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
This corporate techno thriller is entertaining, nothing spectacular, of
course, but nowhere near as bad as many people claim. Gary Oldman and
Harrison Ford are the ruthless CEOs of rival cell phones companies.
Liam Hemsworth is a young hotshot that works for Oldman's company, but
he is fired after a lousy presentation. After spending thousands of
dollars of the company's credit card in a nightclub, he is blackmailed
by Oldman into getting hired into Ford's company in order to steal the
blueprints for their new cell phone. Many more things will happen,
including Hemsworth romantic involvement with one of Ford's company
marketing head (played by the beautiful Amber Heard). It's good trash,
not very believable, but a good time filler, an ideal date movie. There
are far worse ways to waste your time.
