
It's hard for me to understand the scorn that has been heaped upon this
film. You'd think Lee Daniels had created a film praising Hitler, the
Antichrist, and communism. Also, it's hard to understand why some
critics have focused on certain aspects of the film. Zac Efron in his
"tidy whities" or Nicole Kidman urinating on Mr. Efron. The level of
titillation that is being shown would be credible in a 7-year old, but
not for adult critics. To focus on these rather minor points shows a
deep misunderstanding of what this film is about. 

So, what is this film about? While I think it's hard to reduce a work
of art to the level of a short essay, I am so fed up with what has been
written about this film that I shall attempt to do so. 

For starters, I believe this film reflects the world as it is, and not
as we want it to be. I think this film is saying that our deepest need
is for love, connection, and moral truth but these needs become warped
when filtered through the lies,despair, and degradation that American
society has offered up as the truth. Mainstream films never go here,
and while some indie films touch on this theme, they don't usually go
for as deep a dive. The only other director that I can think of even
approaching this level of an unblinking stare into the abyss is Todd
Soldendz. 

The characters in the film consist of Ward Jansen (Matthew
McConaughey), a journalist who has come back to his home town to
investigate whether or not Hilary Van Wetter (John Cusack), a man on
death row, received a fair trial. Ward's attention has been drawn to
this case by Charlotte Bless (Nicole Kidman), a woman who has
maintained a jail house correspondence with Mr. Van Wetter, and who
believes she is in love with him. Ward brings with him a colleague,
Yardley Acheman (David Oyewolo), a black journalist from London. They
are assisted by Ward's younger brother, Jack Jansen (Zac Efron), who
still lives at home. The Jansen family maid, Anita Chester (Macy Gray)
is Jack's confidant and a stand in for the mother that left the family
several years ago. 

Each character's story is that of connection or love that has been
twisted or thwarted for various reasons. Jack's playful relationship
with the family maid can never be a relation between equals because of
his racism. Jack can see that she is his natural ally and friend, but
his racism denies them both a deeper connection. As brothers, Ward and
Jack share a powerful bond of affection, but no amount of affection
between the brothers can halt Ward's impulse to self-destruction
brought on by his inability to accept being homosexual. Charlotte Bless
is looking for love and thinks she can find it by writing to men in
prison. She receives a response from Van Wetter, and because of its
seeming indifference to what other men want from her, she decides this
man loves her. The delusion is so powerful that even when real love is
offered by Jack, she doesn't understand it. The film doesn't make it
clear why she is so self-destructive. We can only assume it is the
logical end to the toxic sexism that forces women to see themselves as
worthy only if they are desired by a man; any man. Jack's impulse
toward love and connection with this woman is driven by the damage done
by the abandonment Jack experienced at the hands of his mother.Yardley
is a black man trying to have a decent career as a journalist at a time
(1969) when racism almost guaranteed that black men remain in lowly
positions and did not allow them to rise to their full potential. It is
this very racism that makes him betray his colleague and his principals
and forces him to assume an identity other than his own. Van Wetter is,
I think, a kind of stand in for a force of nature. It is when you face
up to these kind of forces that your innermost strengths and weaknesses
are revealed. 

Through these characters, Lee Daniels is showing the damage done to
human relations, forcing people to act in ways that are not pretty to
watch, and so the world he shows us is not pretty. It's hard and
brutal. But so are the forces that drive these characters. To the
critics who hated this film, if you want pretty, watch Lucy and Desi.
Mr. Daniels world is the real world; flawed, messy, and hard to look
at, but with humanity and the impulse to transcendence at its core.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching the movie I was asking myself what the heck did I just
watch, but whatever it was I liked it....Now first off this movies is
not for everyone, it's extremely sexual, violent, and at times
confusing, but it is never dull or plotting. The story is captivating
and the actor/actresses pull you in right from the start and never let
go until the ending credits roll. The storyline is unique and original
with it's crazy cast of characters. Don't try and out think this one,
go with the flow and let this backwoods swamp tale take you on an
mesmerizing journey into a world you'll be glad you were able to
glimpse.

I'm going to say a few things about some of the actors/actresses as
they truly do make this a must see movie. First Matthew McConaughey, if
he's starting to get type-cast so what, he is absolutely wonderful in
this role...bravo. Nicole Kidman is sensational, once again proving no
matter what the role she excels and is without a doubt one of the very
finest actresses of our time. John Cusack takes on a very different
type of character than what you've seen of him the past and really
shines and delivers a riveting memorable performance. The entire cast
of this movie deserves credit for bring life to this Lee Daniels film. 

I've noticed that some reviewers are giving this a less than glowing
review, but in my humble but accurate opinion, this is an excellent
piece of film making and should be given it's rightful praise for what
it is....OUTSTANDING!!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'd heard of Zac Efron, somewhere, I thought he was some
teeny bopper's fantasy. But this kid is no lightweight. He's quite good
here in an ultra adult film, as is everyone else, all playing against
type: Kidman as a slut, McConaughey as a sexually troubled man, John
Cusack as a backwoods maniac, and Macy Gray as a lovable servant.

My wife hated the movie but couldn't take her eyes off of it. And by
its end, we were both thinking that was quite a ride. What more do we
want from our movies? Everyone here, maybe a little less so with Efron
who's the novice, abandons themselves to their parts. I didn't even
catch Gray in a misstep though she's a novice too. They all channel
their people quite successfully in a well-directed though not for the
kids, movie that manages to shine a light on a south that actually was
and for all I know still is in places.
<|_=00=_|>
This film reminded me quite a bit of "Deliverance." It's about how
well-meaning people can end up way over their heads by getting involved
with people and subcultures with which they're not familiar. It's less
riveting than "Deliverance" but has more sympathy toward its
characters.

The plot revolves around a small group of people who join forces for a
cause: A woman who wants to free a prisoner she's become enamored of
(by mail) and a couple of newspaper reporters who want to dig up the
truth about the crime. One of the reporters is seeking justice, the
other has a slightly different agenda. The idealistic reporter has a
younger brother (Zac Efron) who is an innocent. Innocence, idealism and
romanticism come up against opportunism and sociopathy and some of what
happens is not too much of a surprise. The end of the movie had a great
deal of dramatic potential and could have been more suspenseful in the
hands of a more polished director. The movie overall is somewhat lurid,
a Southern Gothic, but not as lurid as some critics have claimed.
Overall it is a movie with some poignancy.
<|_=00=_|>
The Paperboy (2012) 

*** (out of 4) 

Lee Daniels' adaptation of the Peter Dexter novel taking a look at some
swamp trash and a mystery surrounding them. Reporter Ward Jansen
(Matthew McConaughey) returns to his hometown to try and solve the
mystery behind a sheriff who was killed. Hillary Van Wetter (John
Cusack) is on death row for the crime but the reporter believes he is
innocent and drags his younger brother (Zac Efron) and a trashy woman
(Nicole Kidman) into things. THE PAPERBOY is a pretty unpleasant look
at a bunch of characters you can't help but hate and it's funny to see
McConaughey really changing his "image" here as well as in the year's
earlier KILLER JOE. I think the best thing about the picture are the
performances as well as the authentic feel that director Daniels brings
to the picture. The biggest problem is the screenplay and a story that
I just felt wasn't all that captivating. The entire mystery surrounding
what really happened to the sheriff seems to take a backseat and it
really just seems to come and go at times. I'm really not sure why it
was thrown in the background as much and especially with the twists
that come towards the end. With the twists you'd think that the
filmmakers were wanting the story itself to be important but it just
never really takes off. It also seems that the director wants to shock
the viewer with some rather graphic violence and sexual situations,
which have the stars all doing some pretty wild things. It really does
seem as if the film is just building up to each of these scenes and
it's fair to say that they're quite memorable. The performances from
the entire cast are terrific with both McConaughey and Kidman doing
wonders with their swamp trash characters. I thought both of them were
incredibly believable and hats off to them for going as far out as they
did. I was also impressed with Efron and thought he handled the
character's development quite well. Cusack was terrific playing the
creepy bad guy and we also got strong support from David Oyelowo, Scott
Glenn and Macy Gray. The cinematography is also good as is the music
score and the atmosphere. THE PAPERBOY, as is, is a good showcase for
its stars but you can't help but feel it's a missed opportunity as a
stronger story would have made it even better.
<|_=00=_|>
The Paperboy is one of those films that has a fine cast, a director
with a track record (Lee Daniels, Oscar nominated for Precious) and an
interesting plot, but will be rarely seen and largely forgotten by
year's end. Sometimes there is no justice in the film world; just ask
Ben Affleck about being overlooked by AMPAS as Best Director this year
for Argo.

It's well performed, directed with few flaws and the cinematography
hits the spot perfectly, but the trouble is, in terms of ratings, that
it isn't easy to sell. Essentially, The Paperboy is a dialogue-driven
film about an idealistic reporter, Ward Jansen (Mathew McConaughey),
who returns to his hometown in the backwaters of the red-necked
American south to investigate the conviction of a man on death row
convicted of murdering a sheriff. When Charlotte Bless (Nicole Kidman),
the infatuated pen-friend of Hillary Van Wetter (John Cusack), the
murderer in question, approaches Ward for help, he recruits his bother
Jack (Zac Efron) and colleague Yardley (David Oyelowo) and sets about
investigating ineptitude and corruption surrounding the case.

It isn't a pretty story, it doesn't race along at breakneck speed and
it isn't a film that haunts the viewer long after the credits have
rolled. It is, however, a thoroughly enjoyable tale that meanders
through some murky and terrible swamps, both literal and metaphorical,
and will satisfy those with a penchant for the underbelly of society.

Based on a true story and one from the official selection for Cannes
2012, The Paperboy is a dark story that at times is very unpleasant. It
goes to places you almost certainly want to avoid in your life. There
are no sweet and lovely two-dimensional characters here but 'regular
Joes' with twists in their psyches and the relationships between the
principal four keeps us on our toes. Each has secrets or sides to their
characters they try to hide and each is capable of damaging another
willfully and yielding or ignoring their conscience after the event in
their own self-harming manner.

Efron shows signs of shaking off his teenybopper roots and it is
encouraging to see him take a long and effective step away from such
pulp as last year's predictable The Lucky One. At last we see something
of a character developing from him, and Jack's relationship with the
maid, Anita (Macy Gray), who also narrates much of the story, gives a
hint of warmth to an otherwise cold and twisted collection of
characters.

Both McConaughey and Kidman stepped away from the 'beautiful' roles
sometime ago, though there is still a feeling of them playing 'against
type' here, which isn't fair as both are very fine actors with some
startling performances in recent years. Here they allow themselves to
be engulfed by the perversions of their roles and are eminently
watchable though you wouldn't much 'alone time' with either of them.
Gray is overlooked largely and, though her Anita is supposed to be the
all-seeing character that fills in the gaps for us, she feel
inconsequential much of the time.

It is Cusack that startles most of all here. He often frustrates as a
fine actor in turkeys (Hot Tub Time Machine, The Raven) and then
blindsides us with another performance we've been desperately hoping
for. As Hilary he initially causes reserved sympathy from us as he
stumbles into the scene disheveled and emotionally crushed. We can
almost smell the grease in his hair and his fetid breath and recoil at
the thought of Charlotte sharing anything more than a letter with him.
But he evolves and repulses as The Paperboy unfolds in a performance
every bit the antitheses of his signature role, Martin Q. Blank, but
equally memorable. Whilst an unpleasant character with whom to share
time, the performance is absorbing. Just please don't let this be the
last time we enjoy Cusack for another five years.

Daniels has crafted a film of relationships with confused issues. Life
isn't always clear-cut and often it is just plain dirty. Though less
successful, financially, than Precious, The Paperboy is a far more
mature film with a great deal more flare. Although Daniels hasn't had
the courage to shoot it entirely in the style of the period, there are
enough references to the late sixties and seventies with split screens
and flares to transport us back the era of segregation and Tarantino's
favourite word.

It won't last long at the box office, but The Paperboy is a DVD treat
for an evening that calls for something more than schmaltz or easy
laughs and requires some emotional investment.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand why some people think this movie is OK. It has some good
actors, and it explores some dark issues. Unfortunately it is a
roller-coaster ride going from mundane to awkward with little point to
the journey. There is no cleverness, no real plot, and nothing of note
to keep you watching except for the hope of a good ending. Too much
effort went into trying to shock the viewer than went into actually
making an involving story. The characters are obviously intended to
polarise viewers, but they have tried too hard and the characters have
been made uniformly unlikeable. The ending shows promise, but then true
to the movie's form, it crashes back to mediocrity. The flashback
concept is also so pointless. It has no relevance and no real callback
to the present. The consequences of the story lead nowhere, and your
are left feeling that sitting through this movie was equally pointless.
The dialog also leads to confusion, it doesn't help to engage you at
any deeper level and I couldn't really be bothered to dissect it too
much. This paperboy does not deliver.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE PAPERBOY': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

An all-star cast highlights this bizarre dramatic thriller based on the
book (of the same name) by Pete Dexter. The cast features Zac Efron,
Matthew McConaughey, Nicole Kidman, John Cusack, David Oyelowo, Scott
Glenn and Macy Gray all playing against type in unusual roles (for each
actor). It was written (along with Dexter) and directed by Lee Daniels
(who is most well known for directing the critical darling and Oscar
nominated 'PRECIOUS', which was also based on a popular book). The
movie itself has gotten mostly bad reviews but Kidman has gotten plenty
of high critical praise and award recognition for her performance in it
(including a supporting actress Golden Globe nomination). The rest of
the cast has been well received as well and Daniels is still seen as a
skilled director but the trashy content of the film as well as it's
overall muddled nature have been negatively criticized by many. I agree
with the criticisms but still feel like I have to give it a lot of
respect and credit for what it does manage to accomplish.

The film revolves around a man named Hillary Van Wetter (Cusack) who's
on death row for the murder of a local sheriff in a small Florida town.
He's been communicating with a woman, Charlotte Bless (Kidman), he's
never met via letters. Charlotte believes she's in love with Hillary
and calls on the help of two reporters from Miami, Ward Jansen
(McConaughey) and Yardley Acheman (Oyelowo), to help her prove he's
innocent. Believing new evidence is available the two reporters travel
to the Florida town, which is a return home for Ward (to the town he
grew up in). Ward visits his dad (Glenn) and his new girlfriend (Nealla
Gordon), who distribute his paper there. He also reunites with his kid
brother Jack (Efron), who helps with their investigation. Jack is young
and inexperienced with women and immediately falls for the sexy
Charlotte. The Jansen's maid Anita (Gray) is Jack's only friend and she
narrates the story.

The movie is sleazy and trashy pulp like the films of yesteryear.
Daniels brings a lot of style to his storytelling but it's still a
mess. The visuals are often haunting and disturbing and you never
really know where the film is going or what to make of anyone or
anything in it. It is bizarrely interesting though and entertaining in
a somewhat bitter way. Like a lot of films it has a lot of great
moments but a lot of bad ones in between as well. The cast is all
fantastic; Cusack is very strange and creepy, McConaughey seems to be
playing a character like many others he's done before but he does take
a sharp character twist, Efron is good as the shy yet determined heart
of the film and Kidman is fantastic as the sex obsessed vixen. The
movie is a mixed bag but it definitely has it's qualities.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OcoZRlVFMzA
<|_=00=_|>
"The Paperboy" has received some harsh criticism, not just divisive but
mostly negative reviews. I'm happy to provide an opposite perspective
but it is worth mentioning that most critiques seem to come from a
superficial point-of-view. Anita (Macy Gray) as the narrator takes us
down to small town life in Florida in the late 1960s where she worked
as a maid for the white, upper class Jansen family. Nothing is as it
seems.

The youngest brother, Jack Jansen (Zac Efron), has just returned home
after a short stint as a star swimmer at university. He's lost with no
purpose and no real desire. The elder brother, Ward Jansen (Matthew
McConaughey), is a reporter at the Miami Times and has just returned
home to investigate a racial murder case. To help him, he has brought
home his newspaper partner and friend Yardley Acheman (David Oyelowo).
Yardley comes from an upper class, African American family from London.

The film has found a place in time where racism was rampant in some
parts of the world and barely an issue in other parts of the world. It
was definitely an issue for Hillary Van Wetter (John Cusack) who
apparently committed murder due to race, but he could also have been
unjustly imprisoned due to race. 

At this point in the film, most viewers are still reeling from the
introduction of all the actors. Cusack is playing a Southern white
trash, murderous hick and Nicole Kidman is playing his white trash
fiancée, Charlotte Bless, who likes chasing after imprisoned criminals.
Viewers remain in a state of shock when Hillary and Charlotte decide to
pleasure themselves upon first meeting, with all other paper players
present. Contrary to popular belief, that scene was not just for pure
shock value, it was also used to help establish who the innocent
characters are and who deserves our sympathies.

The most intuitive and considerate character, Ward, has also returned
home to look after his little brother. Their mother died when they were
young and with a stubborn and distant father and scheming step-mother-
to-be, Jack is prone to misunderstood loneliness, and Ward hires him as
a driver for their newspaper article on Hillary's case. Jack is more
innocent and sheltered than his age suggests. He's never been in love
and he doesn't even know how to find love. So when Charlotte shows up
with bleach-blonde hair and a skin-tight, shorter-than-appropriate
hooker dress, he's in love. Or infatuation, but he doesn't know the
difference, and then the film starts exploring that.

But after all, Jack (Efron) is the title character of "The Paperboy".
This film is about him. It also happens to be about love, sex, race,
murder and acceptance. It is extreme, chaotic and tragic, but it's not
terrible. It's actually a very intelligent film.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite strong performances from some of the actors(Cusack was pretty
creepy), none of the characters in this film vaguely resembles any
person who has actually lived on this planet. There are only
one-dimensional stereotypes and excuses to insert "shocking twists"
into a rather unimportant and undeveloped "story".

You have a reporter(?) out to expose the truth about a wrongful
conviction. A woman obsessed with a imprisoned killer who says it's
because he is innocent, but really she just doesn't think she deserves
any better. A housekeeper who is narrating the story(who is difficult
to understand) for some unknown person for some unknown purpose. A kid
who sits around and feels jealous of everyone else's relationships and
pines for the previously mentioned prison groupie, because, well as is
the norm in this film who knows(or cares for that matter).But it is
insinuated because she reminds him of his mommy. And she is of course
unrealistically hot for a prison groupie. These characters are not
explained or developed in any meaningful way aside from the fact that
the boy has mommy abandonment issues, the reporter is ashamed by his
homosexual desire for black men and, oh white people were really racist
back in the day. And swamp people walk around naked with dead
alligators hanging everywhere. And eat ice cream out of pots. And I
guess they had not yet invented air-conditioning or indoor plumbing
whenever this film was supposed to take place. Because most of the
characters are covered in dirt and sweat throughout.

These characters serve only as a prop, as does the story and film
itself for the writer/director's desire to "shock" the audience and
show how brave they are for using the "n-word" and showing taboo things
like masturbation, rape, gay bondage rape and alligator guts. Oh and
don't forget pointless urination and the constant reminder that the
world is and has always been a terrible place and any attempts to do
the right thing will be met with disappointment and murder.

They do not develop any tension in the so-called story relating to the
completely inconsequential investigation and consistently have every
major plot development off screen. Focusing mostly on the fantasies
(twisted and otherwise) of I presume the writer. A complete waste of
time and film. All concerned should be ashamed to be associated with
this cinematic cum stain.
