
What starts out as a decent romantic comedy quickly devolves into a
self-indulgent joke about whiny, privileged white kids who (gasp) don't
know what to do with their lives! It wouldn't be so insulting if it
didn't masquerade as a film about academia and intelligence, yet
feature such astoundingly sophomoric scripting. Any juice that can be
squeezed from the "post-college malaise" hokum is soured by cliché and
archetype. And its pseudo hipster posing (the music and costumes shout
indie cool as loud as they possibly can) don't cover up the fact that
this movie has no substance to match its style.

Performances are fine, but not spectacular, apologies owed to the
supporting actors who don't have characters to hang a portrayal around.
Malin Akerman and Adam Brody stand out because of their jovial
personalities and familiarity, but the rest of the cast struggles to
stay afloat in a sea of underdevelopment.

The great conflict at the middle of the picture is a love triangle
between Katie Holmes, Anna Paquin, and Josh Duhamel, but you care so
little about these three people that you'd just as soon see them end up
alone. As for realism and stakes, ask yourself this: have you ever
thought of Josh Duhamel as a brooding academic?

In summation: a mainstream romantic dram-com dressed up like an indie
film that sins thrice: it's boring, clichéd, and insignificant. A shame
considering all of the young talent involved.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this movie, I usually enjoy small character studies,
but sadly this film was a disappointment. Maybe it was too much to
expect Katie Holmes to carry the story. Unfortunately her lack of range
and/or talent is obvious in this film. And, Anna Pacquin, who is so
good and fiery in True Blood, is left with little to do except be a
bitch. Malin Ackerman plays a riff on her 27 Dresses role. Candice
Bergn is mostly absent in the film. Finally, Josh Duhamel stumbles
through the movie with the same stunned look on his face for the whole
film. It is hard to imagine either woman in this film would be
attracted to him. Character driven films are only enjoyable when we
learn and understand the motivation behind the characters, or when we
watch them grow and evolve. In this film we learn little of the
character's background story or motivations, and there certainly is no
growth. Overall the film is a sad mess, and I will not be recommending
it to my friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Since Galt Niederhoffer wrote the book and screenplay and directed this
movie, she has nobody to blame for its terrible awfulness but herself.
The screenplay has lots of boring gaps in which this supposedly bright,
witty group wanders around without saying much at all. Although they
are all supposed to be college buddies, the obvious ten-year age gap
between Anna Paquin and Josh Duhamel makes this proposition laughable.

Katie Holmes acting here is so bad that it makes Josh Duhamel look like
DeNiro, which is saying something. The whole movie hinges on the
chemistry between the two leads, and there is none whatsoever.
Sidekicks Jeremy Strong and Rebecca Lawrence are virtual non-entities.
Candice Bergen does the same geriatric reprise of Murphy Brown that she
recently did on the TV series "House," with no better results. If
Elijah Wood was going for creepy he succeeded, but to no great purpose.

That leaves only the performances of Anna Paquin, Malin Akerman, and
Adam Brody to save this stinker. Akerman is the standout of the three,
and it's only when she is on screen do you have the sense that
something interesting could happen. Unfortunately, she not on screen
all that much.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read the book, everything about this movie was wrong, in my
opinion. The characters in the book read as self-indulgent,
out-of-touch post-Ivy Leaguers, but at least you have the benefit of
being able to read some of their back stories. You know NOTHING about
any of them in the movie - the viewer is given no reason to even try to
care.

I said to the person with whom I watched this, the most interesting
thing about this movie is the music. And the music wasn't even that
interesting, nor was it present as much as it could have been. I felt
the movie was wholly miscast. Anna Paquin, while blond, was nothing
like how I envisioned Lila while reading the book if only because she
was about a foot too short. They took the one interesting feature of
Laura's away (she's Jewish) and removed the part that really set her
apart from her WASPy Yale buddies. Elijah Wood, while talented, was not
creepy enough to play Chip, the bride's brother and Candice Bergen was
not severe enough to be Augusta. I was also disappointed that they
diminished her part - she kept everyone on their toes.

I highly recommend skipping it all together. I wish I had that hour and
a half of my life back.
<|_=00=_|>
Five former college friends travel for the wedding of the wealthy Lila
Hayes (Anna Paquin) with Tom McDevon (Josh Duhamel) at her family's
beach house. The maid of honor Laura Rosen (Katie Holmes) was the
roommate of Lila in the college and the groom Tom was her boyfriend.
Laura still misses Tom and the groom is not sure that he shall marry
Lila. Along the eve of the wedding day, they have a dinner rehearsal
and drink a lot of booze, and Tom and Laura get close to each other and
rekindle their love.

"The Romantics" is a film about reunion and this there have produced
solid movies and my favorites are "Peter's Friends" and "St. Elmo's
Fire". Unfortunately "The Romantics" is dull, boring, characters with
no chemistry and poorly developed in an awful screenplay and story.
Summarizing, it is a dreadful film. Laura is a despicable characters
and I do not understand why she goes to the wedding to be the maid of
honor and spends the night with the groom and vomits her feelings to
Lila ten minutes before the wedding. Tom is a weak and uncharismatic
character. Candice Bergen seems to be constipated with her grimaces and
the sexy Swedish Malin Akerman and her thighs are the best that his
film can offer. My vote is two.

Title (Brazil): "O Casamento do Meu Ex" ("The Marriage of My Ex")
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance The Romantics gives the impression that it might be one
of those trendy new value packed romantic comedies laced with bits and
pieces of top talent aimed at getting fans in the seats but offers
little in the way of good story telling. A good example being the dull
"He's Just Not That Into You" or the recent "Valentine's Day". Luckily
the Romantics is not one of those types of films, in contrast it's a
true ensemble piece where the actors work stronger as a unit then
alone. The casting by long time producer, first time feature length
Director Galt Niederhoffer is near pitch perfect and the players work
together seamlessly to create a smart story about the unpredictability
of love and how we may get older and wander but some things just never
change. 

The Romantics are a crew of preppy (former J.Crew models from the looks
of their cloths) late 20 somethings that come together on a Hamptonish
Long Island estate for their friend Lila (Anna Paquin) and Tom's (Josh
Duhamel) wedding. Lila has asked her old college roommate and friend
Laura (Katie Holmes) to be her maid of honor. This a rather devious
gesture by Lila because Laura has a long standing history with the
groom Tom. Of course with the old gang getting together again Laura
must push through the torment and do her part at the wedding. The
friends are all well aware of the tension between Lila, Tom and Laura
and expect fireworks to fly before the the wedding bells ring. Tensions
begin to build at the wedding rehearsal dinner before kicking off a
wild night that finds old lovers reuniting and old friends
rediscovering themselves.

The Romantics asks the question is the nostalgia of our past love just
a sugar coated flashback or is that first true love the most pure and
most enduring love? From what we can gather here, there is no clear
answer only a process of trying to understand ones true feelings. The
Romantics stays true to the process, allowing the events of the movie
to unfold in a very honest and rewarding manner . Where other lesser
films might try to force the jokes and push forward to a obviously
predictable ending the Romantics is at its best when it focuses simply
on people's feelings and the raw emotion of the moment. 

What is abundantly clear after viewing this movie is that Katie Holmes
is a really great actress, not good, great . Believable, honest and
fragile, in the role of Laura she elevates the material here and there
leaves little doubt that she deserves consideration on her own merits
sans her TomKat status. Additionally Josh Duhamel delivers a very
rewarding performance , he brings a lot of charm and honesty to the
performance. His chemistry here with Katie works incredibly well.

The entire cast all have there moments in the Romantics, however its
hard not to see that many of the players here deserved more screen time
and more chance for developmet. Elijah Wood in particular needed more
face time, he is an absolute riot fest here. To add to that Dianna
Agron of Glee fame turns out a great little performance as Anna
Paquin's sister in the movie. Strikingly gorgeous and infatuating on
screen Dianna is a star in the making, her moments with Anna were gems.
Fans of Malin Ackerman, Anna Paquin and Adam Brody will probably feel
let down that each star didn't receive a bit better treatment, however
there are still little treats in each of the their performances which
should satisfy most fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this piece of trash with my wife and friends.
I was praying for some sort of "death by natural causes.". God please
put me out of my misery.

Does anyone really talk like these people?

The night before my wedding was comparatively boring. None of the drama
that these characters encountered. 

Yawn. This dreary, self absorbed, waste of time had very little value.
Even the surprise ending did little to redeem the previous 90 minutes.

Sorry. I know this is a lousy review. I needed the vent.

I'll work harder on my next review.
<|_=00=_|>
Was it... love, was it tragedy...was it a bad episode of cheap
series...or was it just nothing...Everybody blames the actors, but how
can you act with such cliché script, that is leading to nowhere. I am
truly sorry for some of these actors, because I honestly like them, but
this movie is beyond meaningless. I was waiting the whole time for a
little bit of sophistication at least at the end, but well...nothing.
If you want to see Ana Paquin with a green mask on her face, Elija Wood
acting drunk and some guys running naked...that you can see, but
nothing more sensible. What I am sorry for is Candice Bergen, wonderful
actress, such unfortunate role.
<|_=00=_|>
Galt Nietherfoffer wrote the novel in which this film is based and
directed her own adaptation. Not having read the book, it is hard to
make a more objective comparison. It is another wedding picture, but in
spite of its subject, the screen treatment does not break any new
ground. We are sure that the the creators started with another movie in
their minds.

We are taken to a Northern Long Island location where old moneyed types
live, quite a contrast from the flashier Hamptons. Lila Hayes is
getting married to Tom. The two families have gathered for the wedding
rehearsal and the obligatory dinner. Laura Rosen, who is the maid of
honor, has a reason for being uncomfortable, she is in love with the
bridegroom. Lila, a callous young woman, knows all about it, but she is
going ahead with her plans to be a bride the following day.

After dinner, the wedding party decides to keep celebrating at the
beach. A lot of alcohol is consumed and Tom and Laura rehash their
differences, for Tom realizes the kind of life he is to expect to live
with Lila, a woman he obviously does not love. After all the awkward
comments from all the so-called friends, we cannot help but wonder:
will Tom marry Lila, or will he not? Well, do not expect fireworks to
go off any time soon.

The miscasting of Anna Paquin derails the film. This is a film that
fall between "My Best Friend's Wedding" and "Rachel Getting Married",
this last one kept popping into our mind at the time of the rehearsal
dinner toasts. Kathy Holmes has done better. All the male roles are so
uninteresting one wonders why were they included. The ultimate problem
lies on the fact that we do not connect to this wedding as we should
have.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprised there's not more reviews up for this one given its cast. I
saw it about two weeks back when it unexpectedly hit the local art
theater near me and not knowing much about it just went for it.

Film was all right enough though hardly great. Film keeps you
interested in the proceedings-and it is surprisingly well shot for a
first time filmmaker--several lovely scenes of the characters outdoors
here...but there is nothing here you haven't seen before plot wise.
Cast is pretty uneven--but that fits here because so is the writing. A
lot of exposition is given for the 3 main characters--you find out
about various rivalries and such, but none of it really matters since
it hardly really explains the actions the characters take throughout
the film. With the possible exception of Katie Holmes' character you
really don't exactly know what's behind the three main characters
action beyond some vague unhappiness with each other from the past when
they all went to school together...and so without knowing what their
motivations are for acting the way they act throughout, its hard to
really care about them let alone care about which one of the 2 main
women Josh Dumael's going to pick by the end of the movie.

Of the three main performances--I actually thought Dumael turned in a
rather good performance considering his character as written is a huge
indecisive moron. (he knows for a fact for most of the running time of
the film that he needs to break off his engagement to Anna paquin to go
back to Katie Holmes but consistently either puts it off or lets paquin
talk him into going through with it even though his every action
screams how much he does not want to.) Given the roles i've seen Dumael
in so far, it was a nice change of pace for him--playing the insecure
and easily cowered stiff instead of the take charge guy he normally
plays.

Holmes pretty much sticks to Joey from Dawson's Creek mode
here--playing prideful and wounded and desperately trying to not show
either to all her friends. (its not a bad performance, its right within
her wheelhouse and she does a good job more or less of making you care
about what's happening--but its nothing you haven't seen before,
especially if you were a fan of Dawson's.) Paquin is kind of stuck with
the role of the shrew here--and while the film makes some overtures to
explain why she is the way she is (and why she's set out on marrying
Dumael despite the fact that she knows he doesn't love her) her
performance suffers from her character's general unpleasantness--the
film barely even explains why the characters in the movie are her
friends in the first place--so it barely even make sense that the
characters should be going out of their way to not make her upset.
She's fine but she's really saddled with a badly written character who
when the film first starts seems like she could be much more
interesting.

Even though i liked the supporting players all well enough and liked
that the film tries to establish them as actual characters and not just
one dimensional friends (elijah wood as paquin's drunken brother is
definitely one of the film's highlight...and Candice bergen appears
briefly as paquin's mom--who did the casting here?!?!?) the film really
is an old fashioned romantic drama between the main 3 performers. That
right there is probably why the film is not as special as it could of
been--old fashioned romantic dramas are fine as a genre--but this one
clearly had aspirations of being a Big Chill like statement about
today's late twenty something and how some can't for the life of us
make up their minds about what they want when it matters most...or
about how some of us focus so hard on trying to get the things we want
even when we know for a fact its the wrong thing and so we lie
ourselves into thinking its the right thing. Its not a bad underlying
theme for a film like this to have--and i like that the film has lofty
goals for itself, but the main romantic pairing is so stiff and obvious
that you never seriously think that Dumael and Paquin will actually end
the film the way they started (if the two of them had some sort of
chemistry together on the other hand, or if there was anything shown
between the two of them that might of indicated why the two characters
were together in the first place besides that the plot demanded it..i
might've been able to believe that the two of them as a couple.)---i'm
not going to say if they do end up together or not--but i think the
fact that the film leaves everything kind of open-ended kind of not at
the last minute speaks to that. (I did very much like how the ending
was more implied then spelled out--something that i feel was a very
nice touch and i certainly hope was from the book--of which i seriously
hope went deeper into the mindset of its characters far better then the
screenplay here does.) Overall--its not a bad watch but it could've
been much better. The ingredients were all there.
