
First off, let me just say that I can rarely be bothered to write
reviews on here. The only reason I decided to was due to: 1) lack of
reviews, and most importantly 2) the very few reviews that have been
posted here are so incomprehensively negative that the only explanation
I can come up with was that they had to be shills (which is surprising
to me, as most 'shills' on IMDb are only here to artificially increase
a film's positive reviews).

That being said, I found these these first two negative reviews utterly
baffling. Now I'm no expert film critic, but movies are my number one
passion in life. As such, I've seen so many that I've literally arrived
to the point where I'm thoroughly jaded...so much so that most
everything that I've seen usually leaves me both bored and
uninterested, or at best, mildly amused. Now that I've had my
mini-rant, I'll continue on with my review.

As the title of the film implies, the story is as basic as it gets: a
mother's son gets kidnapped, and said mother stops at nothing to get
him back. From that simple premise (which has been rehashed millions of
times), I began watching this with the expectation that I'll be seeing
one cliché after another, with gratuitous violence and over-blown CGI
and/or cheesy effects mixed in for good measure. I can honestly say
that not only were those expectations overturned, but for the first
time that I can remember, I was literally sat on the edge of my seat
and kept in suspense throughout. That statement may sound generic and
trite, but coming from a jaded cinephile, it becomes a huge compliment.

I never lost interest for a second, and the sheer intensity and
suspense that I felt throughout 'Kidnap' got to the level where I was
actively looking to see how many more minutes was left before it
endednot because I was bored and wanted to know how much more tedium I
had to suffer, but so that I could tell how much more hell the
protagonist (and by extension, I) had to go through before all the
nail-biting suspense could finally come to an end.

It was a taught cat-and-mouse thriller expertly choreographed, and
Halle Berry's acting was sublime! In fact, I was initially so put-off
by the film's synopsis, I would have passed this over in an instant had
it not been for the fact that Ms Berry was in it! The acting,
cinematography and stunt-work were masterfully crafted in such a way so
as to get you emotionally invested throughout. I think that is why this
film engendered such a visceral reaction whilst watching it. If you
cannot relate to nor care about the characters, the film you're
watching falls flat, and you consequently lose interest very quickly.
Not so with 'Kidnap'. The relatability of Berry's character, plus the
superb job she did with this role, puts you right in the car seat next
to her.

If you are like me, and suffer from the ennui that inevitably comes
from having seen almost every movie ever made, and are looking for the
proverbial 'white knuckle ride' and adrenaline rush, then I cannot
recommend 'Kidnap' strongly enough. In fact, I wouldn't be exaggerating
to say that this is on my top 4 list of films I've seen this year thus
far!

So in a way, I give thanks to the two negative reviewers. Had it not
been for them, I wouldn't have even bothered writing this review!
<|_=00=_|>
Not really even sure where to start. We'll go through the low points
blow by blow.

Storyline - there isn't one. The entire plot makes no sense, and is so
ridiculous as to have you laughing out loud for most of the movie. Yeah
kid gets kidnapped and mother will stop at nothing to get him back.
Seen that before. But what you've not seen is the utter drivel they
come up with in this movie. Utter garbage dressed up as some kind of
action. It's the worst story I've seen in as long as I can remember. I
haven't even got to the end yet, and I'm writing this.

Acting - woeful beyond belief. Halle Berry would have to have been
utterly desperate to get involved with this garbage. Minutes of talking
to herself about how she won't let her kid go, all while in the middle
of a car chase. Obviously the part is written and there's not much she
can do about the story line, but unless she needs the money, she'd just
walk away. No idea why she's even involved.

Action - appalling. 'High-speed' stunts filmed at about 5km/h, then
sped up to seem faster. Non-sensical action scenes that add nothing
other than further ridicule to this movie.

Cinematography - I can't say I've ever seen anything as laughably
appalling as this. During the 'high-speed' chases, we get minutes worth
of tyre-going-around footage, interspersed with minutes of yellow lines
on the road. We get it - they're driving.

Overall this movie is atrocious and simply not worth your time. Unless
you want to spend a couple hours yelling at the TV to get her to
actually do something towards getting her son back. Abysmal, appalling,
ghastly garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
I normally wouldn't write a spoiler for a review, but I find it
necessary to pick this movie apart piece by piece 'cos the story was a
load of Bull. First of all, I'm not sure which pisses me off more, the
script writer that left so many holes in the story or the main
character which Halle Berry played quite well. Suffice to say, while I
find Halle's acting to be believable, I find the personality of the
character she played quite confusing and unappealing. I really couldn't
help disliking her and her choices from the beginning of the movie till
the very end. I thought, "well, how stupid can she get" every five
minutes. And here is why.

1. Why didn't she slam into the kidnappers' car when she had the chance
at the stop light? I would think adrenaline was pumping at that moment
the incidence just occurred and some more desperate howbeit reckless
attempt would have been made to recover the boy.

2. It took her so long to get on the phone and call the cops while
chasing the car that had her son. Really?! And don't tell us she lost
her phone. All you need to do to attract the police in all 50 states is
to rear end or side swipe a few cars and keep going. They will do the
calling for you. She didn't as much as bash any other vehicle during
the first half of the "desperate" chase.

3. She was driving like my granny. 

4. The scene where a cop on a motorcycle attempted to pull her over was
just so silly. All she had to was keep going when the cop asked her to
pull over till he called it in and had other cops on the chase. well,
another scene that made this character seem like an idiot.

5. So she offered up her financial instruments and didn't think to keep
the pin as bargaining chip till she was at the point of ensuring an
exchange then went ahead to let the kidnapper into her car... Not
beside her, behind her. Then drove to a secluded highway. Why on earth
would the kidnapper that has your son, your cards, your pin, keep you
alive when the only thing keeping you from reporting the cards stolen
is being alive? Is this character just daft or these is how people
actually react when they are in crisis?

6. She overpowers and throws out a woman twice her size, positioned
behind her while she is driving and being strangled at the same time
out of a moving mini-van. All the while with door closed. The only
script allowed to have that sort of impractical scenario is a James
Bond movie. Absolutely unbelievable. The woman also came into her
vehicle with no phones on her with which to alert her "boyfriend" when
she was tossed from the car?

7. She actually stopped a stranger from getting run over by putting her
vehicle between said stranger and a car about to run him over at a time
she had the option of intercepting the kidnapper about to get away with
her son. I believe natural instinct is self preservation before all
else except a person has specific training to react otherwise in those
circumstances. When i saw this scene, it didn't make her out to be a
hero to me, I just felt she must not be trying to save her son.

8. It took her almost an hour into the movie after driving Miss Daisy
behind the kidnappers for her to realize she could rear end the car...
guess what? Right about the time the car was running empty on gas.
*roll my eyes*

9. The kidnappers were painted not as newbies, but repeat offenders who
did this for a living. Well, it didn't look like it. If they were pros,
they had every opportunity to take the boy across state lines while the
mum was taking a "cruise" around town.

10. Then there is the question of how the boy made it from the car with
the male kidnapper to the house where the kids were being kept. One
moment, the boy is in the car with the male kidnapper being chased by
the mum in distress, the next moment, the mum is asking "where is my
son?" and she's fishing for an ID on the kidnapper's lifeless body.
#Sheish!

11. Kidnappers' Den. She sees a sawn off shotgun lying on a table and
she leaves it. Really?! She's anti-gun? 

12. The boat ploy was also dumb. If she could fool the woman, she
couldn't fool a dog for a second. The dog would have gone for the water
immediately and started barking not after she had fired off a few
rounds into an empty boat which un-propelled was able to move away from
a powerful flashlight that fast? Errmmm! Really?

So I guess the only thing you could consider smart about the main
character was the fact that she was able to pick up on the
"neighbour's" lie? Psssssh! 

The main character was not properly developed and profiled. First
acting conservative and unsure of what to do then later switching to
aggressive, alpha personality. Every other thing that occurred in this
plot was pure luck and stupidity on the kidnappers part. Well, I didn't
see any well calculated attempt at recovering the child. The script is
weak and empty. So thumbs down. I lost empathy for her and felt like
smacking a head all though the movie maybe to knock a little sense into
her. She should be loosing custody after this episode.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning Spoilers!

This main character is so damn stupid. Beyond any reasonable logic.
When she had a chance to kill the man who took her son, she didn't. 

When it's time for some cool stunt driving scenes, the highway is full
of cars. Other times when she is just following the kidnappers car,
there isn't a single car on the entire highway or 10 minutes! 

It's just to aggravating to watch a lead character who makes such
stupid decisions just to further the film. The stupidity continues
throughout the film.

I wish someone would have kidnapped me before I started to watch this
film. Avoid it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never yelled at a movie more than this. I literally made an
account to tell anyone how bad this film is. No one acts like this if
their kid is taken, she doesn't hit the car, she doesn't hit the people
that took her kid. She had multiple chances to do so. Whoever wrote
this script and directed this movie should never be able to work on a
set ever again.
<|_=00=_|>
Howard Stern once said that Halle Berry is physically perfect. I agree,
and the proof is Monster's Ball and Swordfish where her assets are on
display for all to admire. Unfortunately, Ms. Berry is fully clothed
throughout Kidnap, and there is no good reason to watch this terrible
movie. It opens with a series of home videos of a baby crawling and the
sequence follows the tyke until he reaches his present age of seven. In
the next scene a frantic Berry is working as a waitress at a diner;
same as Monster's Ball, by the way. I have seen many former Miss
Universe runner ups working as waitresses. Mother and child arrive at
an amusement park for a day of fun; I am so excited. Mommy gets a phone
call and must walk away from her child for the urgent conversation with
the ex. This is not a spoiler, as the title gives away the plot, and
the little one is abducted by a couple from a trailer park somewhere in
America. Next up is an endless chase scene with Halle behind the wheel
of a mini van with the skill of an Indy 500 race car driver. The bad
people have a Mustang GT, but for some reason, they cannot shake the
determined mother. I only stayed with the hope that my heroine would
somehow lose her clothing at some point on her adventurous journey. She
doesn't, and the stupidity of the story is beyond description. An
absolutely preposterous ending does not help matters. The only saving
grace is the 95 minute running time. A few more minutes and I might
have executed my television.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this because I like Halley Berry movies and figured that this
would be another good movie. I was horribly wrong.

The plot has too many holes and makes no sense whatsoever.

After many miles of "chasing" the kidnappers she finally thinks to ram
into them once her van is almost out of gas? Did she think to do this
when they were stuck in traffic or while surrounded by cars on the
highway? Or maybe when there was a cop following her?

Nope, she waits until they are on a deserted road.

When the kidnapper comes after her with a shotgun, where does the
genius hide? In her mini van with wrap around windows. Good thing the
bad guy decides not to shoot out the glass and shoot her.

Finally we get near the end of this horrible movie and the woman
kidnapper sicks a dog on the Halley Berry and her kid. Somehow after
killing the kidnapper the dog mysteriously disappears and never shows
up again.

Possibly the dog was as board with this movie as the audience and
simply gave up to do something better.

These are not the only horrible parts of the movie, but the most
glaring.

It's an hour and half of my life that I wish that I could get back. Do
not be fooled by the positive reviews, this is a horrible movie and
should be skipped.
<|_=00=_|>
I love action movies without aliens and superheroes so I was exited to
see this movie where Halle Berry goes all out in her attempts to safe
her kid. 

The base of the story isn't that bad but oh how I hate it when writers
can't come up with logical behavior even in high pressure situations.

With a little bit more creativity this actually could have been a very
decent movie, but they took the easy way and at times it just was
annoying how the story developed.

So a big disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst recreation of a parents actions to a kidnapping. Her
thoughtlessness got him kidnapped, there's no reason she faced the way
she did. I had my kid at parks and playgrounds, but you can still keep
an eye out. Sure kids can wander away, but this wasn't the case, it was
all her. Then her bad pursuit got them to get away, there's reviews
that stated she didn't stop the kidnapper car cause they showed her a
(spoiler) knife!! She was right behind them on a slow moving ramp, she
has a van pull in front of them and block them. The knife scene was
much later. Don't she know how to use a van. Her frantic actions were
understandable but the way she pulled it off was pathetic, the writing
was really bad. People without common sense would enjoy this.
<|_=00=_|>
How this movie received 6.4 stars is beyond me The trailer looked
awesome, as usual they show you the good bits, Halle Berry's acting is
really substandard, anyone in there right mind would not have acted in
the same way she did. The car chase scenes are very disappointing, the
director should have put a little more thought into the acting, car
chases and story line. The movie left me feeling really frustrated with
majority of her actions, the last time i felt this way was after
watching Jeepers Creepers. Lets do all the wrong things for the sake of
it to make an entertaining movie 1 star - utter garbage
