
Going in I knew this was a movie with music and that's what it is,
versus a "musical" like Les Miserables, where there's singing
throughout opera-style. 

The good

All the actors stand out and do their characterizations well.
Especially Jennifer Hundson as Naima, the single mom raising a
boy-child on her own without help and estranged from her parents.
Especially Tyrese who really shows his gentle side as Tyson. His body
and face marked with scars, he looks like a thug but has a worldly view
as he tries to steer young Langston to the right side of life.
Especially Forrest Whitaker who characterizes the Reverend Cobb. Stern,
unyielding but with a soft side. Especially the music that soars and
transforms the screen into a gospel show near the end. Director Kasi
Lemmons ("Eve's Bayou") integrates stage show with movie set ala
"Rent". The story of a young boy struggling to find answers and being
pulled toward wrongful ways is simplified and strikes just the right
tone with spirituality and religiousness. 

The bad 

Near the end the drama is laid on thick.

See it! This is the only "live" action musical of the year and while it
is based on a little known play written by Langston Hughes, it's a
triumphant interpretation on film.
<|_=00=_|>
I really would have given it a higher rating but I wasn't 100% crazy
about all of the singing. I loved the story line and the cast was
phenomenal. Overall everyone did a really good job with the acting and
singing. So many of my favorites in one film is really a treat. I will
be telling everyone I know about this movie.It should be watched by all
who value family and faith. This situation plagues many minority homes.
Holding on to the anger, hurt of misunderstandings for years when it
can be fixed with communication, respect, honesty and forgiveness.I
wasn't sure about whether it would be good in the beginning but very
pleased I stuck it out and even got my hubby-to-be to watch it with me
and he liked it also.
<|_=00=_|>
First things first, I have never read the play this film is based on,
but with so many top quality actors in the movie, as well as a mix of
newcomers to film, I was interested. Unfortunately though, in my mind I
was picturing a Sister Act type movie in which well-known songs were
given a gospel spin, like how the trailer uses As by Stevie Wonder, but
all the songs in fact are original or inspired by Christmas songs.
Thus, making Black Nativity an urban gospel musical, of which I sort
wished I waited to, or didn't, see.

Characters & Story

The film stars Jacob Latimore as Langston Cobbs, a young man who is
very much a momma's boy, but probably only because she seems to be all
he has had for a long time. Said mother, Naima (played by Jennifer
Hudson), is a single mother who faces financial struggles due to the
city laying her off and, due to that, her home in foreclosure. So, with
her being put out around Christmas, she sends her son off to her
estranged parents: Reverend Cornell Cobbs (played by Forest Whitaker)
and Angela Cobbs (played by Angela Bassett). On his way, he runs into a
man named Tyson (played by Tyrese Gibson), a local hoodlum who, when
Langston is at a fork in the road, presents the option of no return as
opposed to the way of his grandparents.

As a whole though, the story is about the struggles that come from
living. Be it struggling to pay bills, struggling to keep your family
safe, and hopefully together, and how hope and faith are sometimes the
only thing you may have during the quest to survive. So, needless to
say, this film is heavy with the concept of faith, and especially
Christianity. 

Praise

When it comes to praise, I must admit I do find it slightly hard to
find something concrete to compliment. When the movie first started, I
liked the music, but as time goes on it gets more and more faith/
gospel sounding, and then I got turned off. And not necessarily because
it was gospel sounding period, but it was the calm sounding gospel
which doesn't kick your spirit in gear, but instead reminds you of the
boring parts of going to church. Then, moving on to the church aspect,
with Whitaker as a pastor, I wasn't feeling his performance, but what
he said did get to me and had me wanting to shout an "Amen!" And raise
up my hand in praise here and there. The last thing I found worth
noting were the characters of Jo-Jo (played by Luke James) and Maria
(played by Grace Gibson), who have a small role in the film, but from
the little I saw, I felt there was an interesting story which
unfortunately was left untold.

Criticism

And really, that is the key issue of this movie, you don't feel like
anyone's story is truly told. In total, the film is 93 minutes and
during that time outside of Naima's financial troubles and why she
doesn't speak with her parents, nothing else got developed. We, as
viewers, don't learn anything about anyone unless what they say deals
with said conflicts. You see names like Mary J. Blige and Nas, but they
seemingly are there solely to lend their name to the movie, and to do
some verses. Neither are given characters, what so ever. Even the
aforementioned Jo-Jo and Maria, all we learn is that they are homeless
and Maria is pregnant. Why are they homeless? Well that isn't what the
story is about, so unless it is time for them to sing, or to portray
Mary and Joseph, they are put in the background.

The biggest travesty though is that this lack of development even
extends to our leads. Langston is a boy who grew up in Baltimore, loves
his mother dearly, and pretty much that is all that defines him. Naima
is a woman who fell in love with a bad boy, had a son, escaped her
parents and lives in Baltimore. Again, that is all we pretty much learn
about her character. Then with Bassett's character, she never is
anything more than the reverend's wife and Naima's mother. 

But perhaps the biggest disappointment was Forest Whitaker. Now, I'll
admit I was hoping for more from Bassett, but once we was told she was
the preacher's wife, it was clear her role would be as a meek woman who
did nothing but support the pastor. And unfortunately, while Whitaker
may have his lines down, he does not have the soul to preach. To me,
whoever wrote the sermon, or testimony, in the film, they had something
on their heart that even Whitaker's sad performance couldn't dilute.
Yet, at the same time, considering Whitaker's performance in The Butler
and then for this to come out, it makes you wonder if his heart was in
this film, or if he was just looking to keep his name out there? 

Overall: Skip It

Black Nativity to me is a disappointment and suffers greatly from lack
of character development, and having established actors and musicians
who, I feel, were underutilized. That is why I say to skip it. Black
Nativity feels like it was rushed so that it could be released during
the holiday season. And overall the film, to me, will be a forgotten
part of the filmography of all those involved and really, outside of a
handful of the songs, so will the soundtrack be a forgotten part of the
discography of the singers who lent their voices.
<|_=00=_|>
This is almost a musical, in several cases characters break out in song
where we would normally expect dialog. But it isn't excessive and it
works well.

I saw this on DVD, now I wish I had seen it during the Christmas season
for its message. A teenage boy in Baltimore with an unavailable dad and
a single mom unable to pay the bills. So he is sent to stay with his
grandparents in New York (Harlem). His grandfather happens to be a
charismatic preacher, but with issues of his own.

I became interested in seeing this for the superb cast, mostly actors I
have seen and enjoyed in a number of roles. Forest Whitaker is the
grandfather, Reverend Cornell Cobbs. His prize possession is a gold
pocket watch with an inscription, a gift from MLK. The grandmother is
Angela Bassett as Aretha Cobbs.

But my favorite is Jennifer Hudson as the single mom, pregnant at 15.
Naima is working at a couple of jobs but needs to come up with $5000 to
avoid eviction, and has no way to get it legally. Her acting is spot-on
and her singing superb as always.

The 15-yr-old son is played well by 16-yr-old Jacob Latimore as
Langston. The movie's title refers to a Christmastime Black Nativity
presentation at grandpa's church. The ending and reconciliations work a
bit too easily at the end, but the message of family and forgiveness is
clear. 

Good movie, better then its IMDb rating (4.0 right now) would indicate.
But it has a religious theme so people who object to that will not like
it.

SPOILERS: When Naimi became pregnant she became a family outcast, and
the Reverend paid the dad $5000 to agree to never see her or the baby
again. All this alienation ended up with Naimi in Baltimore and not
speaking to her parents. At the end of the movie the Reverend confessed
his "sin" to the whole congregation and his family, they forgave each
other.
<|_=00=_|>
"Proof of God's grace is all around you, you just have to open your
eyes." After struggling single mom Naima (Hudson) is faced with
foreclosure and homelessness right before Christmas she decides to send
her son Langston to live with his grandparents. Her father Reverend
Cobbs (Whitaker) and his wife gladly take him in even though none of
them know each other. Langston wants nothing more then to get back home
to his mother and will do anything to make that happen. When a stranger
offers to help his life is changed. Even though the cast for this movie
is good I was not thrilled about watching this. After watching it my
preconceptions were pretty much right on. It wasn't terrible but it was
just so over-the-top cheesy that it made it a little hard to get into
and enjoy. If this was a made-for-TV movie it would have been OK but
the fact that this was a theater release really makes you wonder why
this got that kind of distribution when there are so many other more
deserving movies that don't get the wide release this one did. Overall,
cheesy and nothing amazing. It is a Christmas movie though so that has
to be taken into account. I give this a C+.
<|_=00=_|>
Great performances help to enhance this amazing story. After reading
some of the negative reviews on here, I just have to say that some
people really don't get it. I really wanted to like this film. A
street-wise teen from Baltimore who has been raised by a single mother
travels to New York City to spend the Christmas holiday with his
estranged relatives, where he embarks on a surprising and inspirational
journey. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast. This is
not a great movie, but the cinematography is bare. The only thing that
keeps it afloat is the sensitivity of the relationships. So at the end
of the day, I give it 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Some critiques of this movie paint it as too cheesy or clichéd. It is
those things. But the screenwriter was kind of between a rock and a
hard place, as one often is in transcribing the work for one medium
into another. It wasn't written as a screenplay, but the screenwriters
had to walk the line between a full adaptation to film on the one hand,
and staying as true as possible to Langston Hughes's vision on the
other. It's a little rough in parts, and any time someone is singing in
a bus station you gotta look at them askance... but still, the
conveyance of the story, and the coming together of this family, in
this very evangelical style (totally agreeing with Roger Ebert here),
along with the star performances of these actors and singers, ensures
that "its rough aspects are easy to forgive."

Not a great, great film, as films go. But for a theatrical adaptation
of a play on screen, with music, and a voyage/story that speaks to
many... Very much worth dedicating 90 minutes to.
<|_=00=_|>
This is truly an inspirational film and a joy to watch.

Langston, played by Jacob Latimore, has to spend the Christmas holiday
in New York City with his grandparents, Reverend Cornell Cobbs played
by Forest Whitaker and Aretha Cobbs played by Angela Bassett, who he
doesn't really know. While there, he has to go by their rules. He wants
to get back home to his mother Naima played by Jennifer Hudson. He goes
through some things and discovers the true meaning of faith, family and
forgiveness.

This adaptation of Langston Hughes' play is wonderful. I really like
the storyline with its great messages and its attention to detail, even
down to the Cobb's family brownstone in Harlem. The acting is powerful
and intense and, of course, I love the music. Executive music director,
Ralph Saadiq shows his musical talent and has created great songs that
tell the story in such a way that both the young and old can listen to
and enjoy. I especially like the choir scene.

I recommend this film for ages 12 - 17. Of course, I think the whole
family will enjoy this movie. I give it 5 out of 5 stars. It's truly a
musical event to be enjoyed during the holiday season.

Reviewed by Brianna B., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
Black Nativity is an adaptation of a stage play by Langston Hughes
which itself is the telling of the nativity with an entire black cast.

This film adaptation updates it as a loose parable. Jacob Latimore is
Langston Cobbs sent by his mother from Baltimore to live with his
grandparents in New York that he knows little about.

Naima (Jennifer Hudson) is struggling financially with her house at
risk of being repossessed. She has no option but to send her son off to
her estranged parents just before Christmas. When Jacob arrives in New
York he immediately loses his money and is then arrested. His
grandfather Reverend Cornell Cobbs (Forest Whitaker) takes him home
from the police station where he meets his grandmother Angela Cobbs
(Angela Bassett.)

Jacob feels uncomfortable at his grandparents. He knows little about
them, he has no idea why his mother has little to do with them, he
knows nothing about his father. He finds Reverend Cobbs stern and he
also has no time for religion.

During his brief stay he has regular run ins with a man called Tyson
(Tyrese Gibson) who buys and sells goods outside a pawnbroker.

Also in the neighbourhood is a poor, homeless young pregnant couple.

Things come to a head when the church puts on their annual nativity and
Naima returns and Langston finds out the real reason why she left.

The film is a musical drama about faith, struggle and hope. There are
people struggling financially, there are people who want reconciliation
and redemption. There are people having a crisis of faith.

The songs that are gospel based are not very good. The songs need a
hook and be catchy. They are not and get in the way.

The story is only half developed. The characters tended to be
stereotyped and two dimensional. Nothing really fits together even
during its short running time.

I found the dramatic finale where everything comes together to be
anticlimactic and poorly written.
<|_=00=_|>
A youngster is forced to spend Christmas with the grandparents he
hardly knows with whom his mum had a massive fallout.

This particular youngster, is forced to grow prematurely and is not
keen on leaving his mum when she is on the verge of homelessness. Upon
arrival he is bewildered by the comfort in which his grandparents live,
yet do not seem to help out his mother who is clearly in distress.

Between trying to figure things out, keen to help his mum even if it
means stealing as well as adapting to life with grandparents, can
brokenness be restored and will the Christmas spirit transcend human
intentions?

Whilst it has plenty of emotion to convey, the musical aspect of it was
not appreciated as well as the pander on stereotypes. Still, it
suffices for a decent time on the big screen.
