
Before anybody reading this review goes to see "The American," let me
give you some sincere advice. If you are expecting this to be another
Jason Bourne or James Bond-style of movie with elaborate action
sequences, tight pacing, and ear-throbbing music...you had better stay
away, for you will be sorely disappointed. The advertising campaign and
production photographs gives one the impression that George Clooney is
taking on a role in a movie like Liam Neeson did in that marvelously
powerful thriller "Taken" released in 2008. But that is not the case.
"The American" is shot on a foreign location, features a lot of foreign
dialect, and was made by a Dutch director with a mostly Italian cast.
In other words, it's not really an American action production. It's an
Italian melodrama and a really fascinating one at that.

Lots of questions are raised and very few of them are given answers
(detailed ones, at least) in this incredibly affecting thriller. We
know and find out very little about our protagonist (George Clooney)
who goes by two names: Jack and Edward. All we know is that he's a
trained killer, somebody wants him to manufacture a special rifle for
an assassination, and that's about it. We don't find out who exactly he
works for, and we really don't need to. Clooney is an American sent
into an Italian town for a last assignment. While he is waiting for the
right time, Clooney tries to avoid being shot at by assassins, and
begins a relationship with a prostitute (Violante Placido) which slowly
transforms from lust to love.

This is not really an action picture and to a certain extent, it's not
even really a thriller. "The American" is a transfixing character
study. We learn not about the George Clooney character's history, but
his integrity as a human being, which it not very much. Director Anton
Corbijn frequently has Clooney in a one-note personality and sets up
his cameras at a combination of close-ups and medium shots that remain
static as he performs rather mundane tasks as he waits for his
assignment to come through. One would assume that this would produce
tedium and boredom and for some people, it will be just that. But for
me, and those who really get involved, this is rather fascinating and
it doesn't drag on for very long at all.

However, the best scenes in the movie revolve around the relationship
between George Clooney and Violante Placido, who is effective and
charismatic as the prostitute who falls in love with him. The director
sets up earlier scenes of them having sex and then later changes the
direction to show them not as a pair of sex-starved individuals looking
for a way to kill a boring night, but as two human beings who care for
each other. At first, I was questioning the point of the Placido
character and I was griping, as I usually do, about the sex scenes and
how they seem, as usual, to have no purpose. But now in hindsight, I
commend the filmmakers for their choice. The sex scenes, for once, are
appropriate because they show how the relationship between these two
characters evolves from lecherousness to a pure and affectionate love.

Director Anton Corbijn and cinematographer Martin Ruhe have done a
superb job at crafting their nostalgia-stirring opus. The movie's misc
en scene and lighting is absolutely wonderful. The film is great to
look at as well as experience. There are some marvelous and more
importantly, creative landscape and interior shots and it's almost a
treat that the camera is frequently locked-down so we can admire these
moments.

In regards to the performances, they are solid. George Clooney proves
his worth as an actor yet again with his portrayal of this tormented,
cynical man of few words. Violante Placido is also very effective as
the girl. Thekla Reuton is icy and more than scenic in her performance
as the in-between person working with Clooney. Paolo Bonacelli is
compelling as the priest whom Clooney befriends, and Johan Leysen is
chilling in his moments as the mysterious individual who always answer
his phone with a gruff "Yeah?" "The American" is one of the best movies
of the year. However, I cannot guarantee that many people will agree
with my statement. First of all, because a lot going in will be misled
that this is a high-tensity action picture like "The Bourne Identity"
and when they find out it's not, they will leave the theater feeling
vastly empty. So that's why I am giving you warning. Don't go in with
that attitude. Go in with expectations for a fascinating,
nostalgia-stirring character study and be especially keen as you watch
the relationship between Clooney and Placindo transform. And believe
me: scenes that seem pointless at first will seem ideal when you look
back on it in hindsight.
<|_=00=_|>
As an action thriller, I'd give this film maybe a 2/10. But that is not
what it was intended to be. The ads and marketing of the film falsely
suggest this is an action film, and that is a great disservice both to
the film and to the audience. I suspect that the film's rating would be
higher had the marketing been honest. It is almost the opposite of
action: it's a quiet, introspective film. I didn't expect a thriller
and so I wasn't disappointed.

As usual in this kind of film, there is not a lot of backstory. We
never find out exactly where Jack came from, how he found his job, why
he could take such a job, etc. But that's not really the point. We
never really find out much about the back story on the other
characters, either. I think we actually found out more about the
priest.

I enjoyed the film in about the same way I would enjoy a short story,
which focuses on a few points rather than furnishing a history and full
explanation.
<|_=00=_|>
The cinematography is breath taking, but with top photographer Anton
Corbijn at the helm, you wouldn't expect anything less. There's very
little dialogue in this film, about 500 lines in total, which
emphasizes the acting and the visual spectacle. Don't expect any CGI or
amazing action scenes. It's just not that kind of film. It's a homage
to C'era una volta il West by Sergio Leone, to The Day of the Jackal
(the original!) by Fred Zinnemann and writer Frederick Forsyth, to
Italy and in a way to Clooney. The deliberate slow pace will put a lot
of people off. The movie is about professionalism, betrayal,
loneliness, revenge and love. How good "bad" people can be. A wonderful
film, that will not be valued by the average Hollywood loving movie
goers, but a must see for people who love movies and for whom
movie-making is an art.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing some people (though not all) coming out of The American
may say is "It's... slow." They may be missing the idea behind the
film. It's not about making an action-packed thriller (one critic
putting the cheesy pun "Less Jason Bourne and more Jason Boring" is
foolish to make that comparison), and if you need that this particular
weekend of Labor Day then Robert Rodriguez's Machete should suffice
with that. This is a film with a European sensibility- it even has the
director Anton Corbijn from the Netherlands- and is more about the
internal conflict and his mechanical, cold nature than anything to do
with a straightforward plot. The American is never confusing, and only
for those who are looking for something with a huge shot of adrenaline
(which, to be fair, the trailer doesn't do a good job of setting up)
will feel let down or bored. It's a work that asks to adjust your
expectations for a dramatic thriller. To give a much more apt
comparison, it's like Jean-Pierre Melville taking a crack at Jarmusch's
the Limits of Control. Yeah, that's more like it.

Another thing that makes Corbijn's work so appealing is his star, who
is really George Clooney the "actor" this time. It's startling to
consider, though sometimes easy to forget, how much range Clooney
actually has. In some roles he does go by on his movie-star charm
(Ocean's movies) or sometimes plays with that image (Up in the Air) or
is just plain goofy (work with the Coen brothers). A performance like
this is more in line with Michael Clayton, and it is one of his most
memorable. He comes in doing a kind of Alain Delon impersonation
(again, Melville comes to mind with his often leading figure), and his
Jack character is a smooth operator, a killer who is only cold-blooded
due to years of detachment and people around him that he becomes
'friends' with getting killed. The basic set-up is that he's in Italy
lying low after a snafu in Sweden, and is given a job to put together a
gun for an assassin. Along the way he meets a prostitute and the two
become close. Maybe too close.

There is predictability in the narrative, but that's not what Corbijn
and Clooney are going for. Anyone can take the old 'one last job' or
'don't fall in love or get close' kind of thing. In fact just two years
ago, on this precise weekend, one saw a lackluster action-packed
equivalent, Bangkok Dangerous, come out with just a similar thing.
Corbjin, taking from a screenplay based on the book by Martin Booth
(formerly called A Very Private Gentleman aptly enough), makes this
about a man who has had his life chipped away bit by bit from this line
of work. He doesn't always kill, but he can, or he is professionally
able to get other people to kill. One of the key things to look for is
how Clooney acts, calmly and assuredly, and how simply Corbjin films
him, as Jack puts together the gun and assembles the pieces. It's like
a well-oiled, impersonal machine. The question becomes: how human can
this man be, can he connect with someone else? 

These are questions that don't usually fly in Hollywood fare, certainly
not even in other big Clooney-vehicle spectacles like the Oceans
movies. The amount of restraint is remarkable, but how Corbjin keeps
things eerily peaceful and leisurely paces is what's really incredible.
Some have also compared it to 70's crime thrillers, and that's not
unfounded. The action that does come out- and there are, to be fair, a
few decent sequences of chasing, dodging and bullets flying without a
change of film speed- comes out of the suspense, and the suspense comes
out of paranoia. Clooney always has to look over his shoulder, and has
to second guess everything he does. His conniving boss thinks that he's
growing soft, but Jack knows better, or should. Even around his usually
very naked and beautiful prostitute girlfriend, played by Violante
Placido, he has to have a gun at the ready when he sees he has one. Can
he trust her? Can we? 

Again, I have to stress how this is the George Clooney show along with
the director's. If you find him to be an underrated actor, this is a
feast of interesting, understated moments. Whether or not he's handsome
or dreamy or whatever he is to women (and/or men) should be irrelevant
to how he acts in the movie. But the movie star quality also carries
over to a point. When he wants to be, Clooney can be so compelling with
barely an eye moment, just a gesture, or a little inflection to his
persona. You need a presence like him, among various character actors
both pretty (i.e. Mathilde) and more sinister looking (Swedish
villains) or more friendly but portly (the village priest), and he
does. I would see the film again just for Clooney and how he drew me in
with the believability of the resolve and sorrow in his character.

Another hard sell this season - an art film in the guise of Hollywood
Euro-thriller fare in strikingly gorgeous locales shot by that guy who
did music videos for Depeche Mode - but it holds a lot of rewards for
the patient and willing.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a movie that will appeal to everyone, even fans of George
Clooney, who is in almost every scene. His famous smile and immense
charm are totally absent in a tight, laconic role as the eponymous
assassin-cum-gunsmith Jack/Edward/Mr Butterfly. But I really admired
this brave departure from the Hollywood dazzle which has a genuinely
different pacing plus look and sound.

So if you're expecting a fast-moving, action-packed thriller, forget
it. After a dramatic pre-title sequence, there is more than an hour of
a quiet, slow build up to the retributive finale. The assassin is
determined to do one last job before giving up his nefarious
profession, but two women are complicating his intentions: fellow
shootist Mathilde, played icily by the Dutch Thekla Reuten, and a local
prostitute Clara, the beautiful Italian actress Violante Placido. Which
woman will get her man? This is a visually striking work, partly
because of the unusual setting in the arid terrain of the Abruzzo
region of central Italy and the narrow, cobbled streets of the town of
Castel del Monte, partly because of the artistry of Dutch photographer
turned director Anton Corbijn and his German cinematographer Martin
Ruhe. The sparse script is the work of Rowan Joffe (son of the director
Roland Joffe) who has adapted the novel "A Very Private Gentleman" by
the British novelist Martin Booth.

Clooney is a great lover of all things Italian and this film - which he
co-produced - is obviously a very personal work which is likely to be
more enjoyed in Europe than in the States.
<|_=00=_|>
The publicity from The American suggests it is an action and adventure
film, when it is in fact a melancholic and deep drama.I liked The
American very much, but I perfectly understand why its slow rhythm and
calm narrative would make it inaccessible to those people who expect to
see shootouts and explosions.And that is not a problem from the film or
from the people, but from the distributors, who did not know how to
sell this movie.

The American is developed parsimoniously, dividing its time in the
methodic way in which the main character constructs a rifle; the
flourishing romance among two people who are hungry of affection; and
the occasional moments of suspense.Oh, and we also have conversations
between the main character and a priest, which contribute to reveal the
psychology from the first one mentioned.And all that is framed by the
perfect Italian locations, which are full of atmosphere and detail, but
without becoming into the idealized brochures from advertising agencies
we have seen in movies which were also set in that country (such as
Letters to Juliet and Under the Tuscan Sun).I would have said that is
an unusual style for director Anton Corbjin, who made many video-clips
of Metallica, U2 and Depeche Mode...if he had not already shown his
firm hand and measured vision in the excellent film Control.

In order to make a relaxed narrative like the one from The American to
work, we need a good actor in the leading role, so that we can perceive
the thoughts from the main character in an almost intuitive
way.Fortunately, George Clooney is one of those actors, and his
brilliant performance in The American is one of the best attributes
from this movie.The rest of the cast also made a good work,
highlighting Violante Placido, Johan Leysen and Thekla Reuten.

The brief sequences from The American which could be considered as
"action" look almost anti-climatic...like an interruption in the paused
routine from the main character.And this is one of the few movies in
which the romance is not used as a forced ornament, but as an integral
part from the screenplay.The only negative element from The American is
that there are a few scenes which feel out of context.However, that
minor fail did not avoid me from having a fascinating time with The
American, which I very enthusiastically recommend with the warning that
you do not have to expect shootouts and explosions.
<|_=00=_|>
"And above all, don't make any friends, Jack. You used to know that."

First, a warning. The American is an atypical spy-thriller. If you're
wanting to check out an adrenaline-fueled action film, you should check
out Salt. The American is a slow- burner, and more of a character study
than anything else. 

The main character Jack is an assassin and weapons maker who at his
heart, is a lonely man. His last engagement was marred by an incident
where he had to kill the woman he was involved with, and he's forced to
move on to a small town in Italy where he's given another assignment
and told to wait. But he finds himself drawn again to another woman,
and that complication may turn his employer against him.

Clooney gives a great understated performance as the quiet, complex
Jack, and he's joined by a pair of excellent, beautiful female leads in
Violante Placido and Thekla Reuten. Their beauty is matched by the
beauty of the small Italian towns and countryside where the majority of
the movie takes place. The sedate pace of the film gives you time to
absorb the mood of the setting, as well as understand the effect it has
on Jack. 

The American will definitely not appeal to everyone. There are two or
three effective action scenes, but at no point is that kind of thing
the focus of the movie. Imagine the tone of The Assassination of Jesse
James by the Coward Robert Ford, and you won't be far off the mark.
<|_=00=_|>
George Clooney outdid himself in this movie! I really did not know what
to expect. I kind of knew what it was about, but decided that I will
let it surprise me.

This movie is a low key follow the movie and its steps. You keep
guessing and keep wondering what will happen next. You wonder who is
behind it all. Of course you can guess what will happen, at least if
you watched enough movies you can make an intelligent guess.

But what gets me with this movie is that even though I see things
coming I still want to watch what happens. This movie just grips you
and spits you out. It is not a blockbuster shoot them up type of movie.
No this is more like the old style Italian Mafia movies. 

If you decide to watch this movie make sure you have time to focus. Its
the little details, the little steps that make all the difference.
Otherwise it just becomes another movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The American (2010), directed by Anton Corbijn, is a vehicle for the
talents of George Clooney. Clooney is too tough, too handsome, and too
much the strong, silent type to do well as a gentle, caring human
being. Accordingly, director Corbijn has typecast him as a professional
assassin.

Unfortunately for his character, Jack, "the Swedes" are after him. The
film begins in a beautiful Scandinavian location where Jack avoids
being killed, and kills his would-be assassins. Unfortunately, this
causes him to commit an inexcusably violent crime against an innocent
person. The attempt on his life also causes him to hide out in a small
Italian village, where he is "The American." 

In the village he meets three people. Two of them are pretty much from
Central Casting--a kindly priest, played well by Paolo Bonacelli, and a
hooker with a heart of gold, the beautiful Violante Placido. The third
person's role is more surprising--Thekla Reuten, as Mathilde, surely
the world's most attractive female professional assassin.

The plot isn't terribly creative and, in fact, it's somewhat confusing.
However, the movie is worth seeing, in my opinion, for the excellent
acting that Clooney brings to his role. He is a man who is never at
ease, never at rest, and clearly no longer comfortable with his role as
a hired killer and gunsmith for hired killers. He is always (literally)
looking over his shoulder, and probably will be forever. Not a happy
profession, and not a happy life.

Reviewers have remarked about the beautiful scenery in this movie,
which I did not appreciate on the small screen. However, the acting and
plot come across well enough on DVD. The film isn't worth seeking out,
unless you have a particular interest in this genre. However, it has
some episodes of intense action, and it's never boring.
<|_=00=_|>
Scenery in movie is beautiful, Clara's boobs and Clooney's back/ push
ups are fine, but there is no real content.

Who is Clooney's character? Good mechanic, either with cars or with
guns, good marksman. Something more? No information at all.

Where is he from? America. How old is he? Unknown. Has he been married?
Unknown. Where he learned his skills? Unknown. Who are his customers?
Unknown. Who wants to kill him? Guys from Sweden. Why? Unknown. Who is
Pavel? Unknown. Why Pavel wants to kill him? Unknown.

What you can see in this movie besides nice boobs and male back? Not
much. Man who is supposedly former assassin who wants to retire, but
there is nowhere to run, and nobody to trust. Does that sound real? So
- so. Material for 95 minutes movie? Can be. Laid out in this way so
viewers have no information about anything? Definitely not.

If story have been laid out a bit different, so we could learn
something, anything about Jack/Edward/Clooney, and empathize with him.
That would take 5 minutes, one dialogue at most, and without that
explanation result is crap. This movie is like Marcel Proust meets the
James Bond, but we do not know anything about what Proust is thinking
about, and James Bond is almost broken guy who do not know what he
wants. Clooney in this movies is like Coca Cola without bubbles, known
brand who made such lousy product so you are sorry you lost 95 minutes
watching.

This review is already longer than "The American" script, "sapienti
sat".
