
The trailer and marketing campaign for this film is another instance of
a collection of sound bites making a film seem like something that it
is not. This is NOT a geriatric sex comedy. In fact, I would not even
call it a comedy. There are some laughs, several smiles, but most of
the time I was in tears. If you go there expecting laughs, you may be
disappointed. I went there with such expectations, and I was pleasantly
surprised and amazed.

I am about the same age as the couple, and I deal with divorcing
couples every day. This film is so real and true-to-life, with no big
fight or over-the-top scene, which is appropriate since so many
marriages end as a result of a collection of little unintended
cruelties becoming unbearable.

I cannot think of any film in which Tommy Lee Jones or Meryl Streep
gave a more astonishing performance. Tommy Lee going to a couples
therapy session run by Steve Carell? The perfect set-up for lots of
laughs, but then we realize the situation is really not funny.

Imagine a film in which Steve Carell has absolutely no gags, routines
or funny bits. Yet I can't imagine anyone doing that role better. He
was in another film dealing (in part) with a relationship gone bad,
"Crazy Stupid Love," which was a comic take (and a marvelous film).
Trying to find another film for comparison, the closest that comes to
mind is Bergman's "Scenes From A Marriage." But I think this film about
the same general subject is much more accessible.

I would have given this film a 10, but the soundtrack of obvious songs
to underscore the plot became somewhat distracting. The song most
appropriate here (but not used) is "That's The Way I've Always Heard It
Should Be." The couple here would be from the same generation as Carly
Simon.

I'm going back.
<|_=00=_|>
It's always interesting to read people's reviews of movies and instead
of getting a review, we get a paragraphs full of narcissism, relentless
scrutiny, and disappointment. What reviewers have to understand is that
yours is not the only perspective on what makes a good movie, in fact,
good.

The problem is, genuine realism is lost on those expecting the standard
Hollywood-esque, brushed-canvasses, flawless plot lines, and riveting
dialogue. Life is rarely like that and when a movie comes along that
depicts some real-life humanity, with all our human idiosyncrasies and
vulnerabilities, it gets dissected because a few outspoken individuals
are expecting reality as its portrayed in Reality TV and not reality as
most of us know it, as it really is.

This movie captured the tenuous nature of intimate relationships and
all the things we don't say to each other. It is uncomfortable for most
of us to be that exposed and vulnerable with another human being, and
that is what Hope Springs capitalized on better than many other films
of this genre. The communication difficulties Jones and Streep
exhibited were masterfully portrayed. The dialogue wasn't always fun
and lively, but that's what added to the authenticity of the plot and
the main developing theme. If you're looking for mindless
entertainment, something easy to digest, there's plenty out there. If
you're up for a healthy dose of reality and a powerful, vital message,
then give Hope Springs a viewing. I don't think you'll be disappointed.
Happy film hunting!
<|_=00=_|>
A slightly-over-middle-age couple finds themselves in more than a rut,
post-post empty nest. What to do? 

An overly-simplified plot outline for a lovely, sweet, funny, sad,
quiet movie that allows the cast's acting talents to shine. A great
script with spot-on character development. None of your over-dramatics
here. 

We all know about Meryl Streep & Tommy Lee Jones, but even they deliver
some newness. But Steve Carell gives us a nuanced performance without
the smallest hint of shtick. Notice Elisabeth Shue in a small part that
delivers big. As well as Jean Smart & Mimi Rogers. 

Don't miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no feeling of being lonesome so crushing as being in a room
with someone, in a relationship with somebody, when the feeling is
gone. This couple, married thirty one years, have discovered this, as
some of us have at different times in our lives. 

Tommy Lee Jones is the husband, marred down in his married life that
has dimmed into something he feels will never be bright again. Never
expects it to be. Is perfectly willing to plod along through life as is
with his anger and dismay at how things have turned out hidden and
suppressed. Meryl Streep is his wife, loving and longing to be loved,
feeling that marriage should not be this way, no longer feeling
attractive or appreciated. Willing to come out of her shell to try for
change. Elizabeth Shue, who we don't see nearly enough of lately, was
excellent. I have never liked Steve Carell so much in a role as I did
in his part as the marriage counselor, trying to inflate this flattened
union. 

Many, many couples, married for decades will feel parts, if not all of
this movie, in a personal way. I go to a lot of films and the number of
people in the theater for the showing of this movie was more than I've
seen gathered for an afternoon in the theater in years. I mean years.
That's how infrequently we have a decent movie with fabulous actors
come out, with no filthy language, no gratuitous sex.nothing to
detract from a solid screenplay, a story well told and well acted. This
one was exasperating, touching, amusing in spots, made you smile,
caused you to shake your head..it has it all. At the end of this film,
everyoneand I mean everyonewas smiling, happy that they had come to
see this one. Wow. That doesn't happen often. 

Perhaps the young people won't see or appreciate the truth of this film
so much, but let me tell you, the young are not the only folks buying
tickets to movies. And every person with a few years under his or her
belt, married to the same spouse for decades, will understand it and
love it!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a single, 67 year old retiree, who has been married and divorced
twice; and this movie really touched me. It acted as a sort of
cinematic mirror to prompt me to reflect upon the many daily choices,
or even finer gradations of volition, that make up a healthy or
dysfunctional marriage or relationship of any kind. The movie was about
how we create our own heaven or hell, in the house, in the kitchen, in
the bedroom, and in life. We lose our grip on our passionate love
affairs almost the way that dust slowly collects on the floor. Didn't I
just vacuum that dust yesterday? That is how a marriage can ossify,
degrade itself, as if consciousness itself were shot full of some sort
of novocaine by sneaky subtle injections over the years, one feeling at
a time numbed.

Meryl Streep, Tommy Lee Jones and Steve Carrell are excellent and break
new emotional and acting ground for all three master actors.

The movie made me think about my entire life, and it made me reflect
upon my parents' marriage, too.

Tommy Lee Jones' portrayal of Arnold, a man who has been an accountant
so long he can simply function on automatic with his customers, not
really giving his passionate self to his business- or his marriage, ran
the gamut from acceptance of various ruts to various kinds of rage,
embarrassment, and stubbornness, refusal to drop his pride, or make
compromises that would have been in the best interests of himself, his
wife and the marriage.

The camera does not editorialize. It shows Arnold falling asleep
watching golf instruction on television. The camera directly above the
frying pan and close up, depicts Meryl Streep's Kay, sizzling a strip
of bacon and one sunny side up egg for Arnold every day, day after day.
He eats his breakfast with his back to her as he reads the paper, then
gets up, every day, and gives her a peck on the check without even
making eye contact, and he's off to work again- like an unemotional
little engine that could.

When Sisyphus pushed that boulder up to the top of the hill, his
punishment by the gods, he had to watch it roll back down to the bottom
of the hill whereupon, he repeated this process - for eternity. But
Sisyphus smiled - at least according to Albert Camus, he smiled. It
occurred to me that relationships and marriages devolve into
accommodations, and that passion, like air being spent out the tiny
leaks in a worn tire, can evanesce before either party truly, deeply
realizes what they are doing, what they have done. The smiles in this
movie are forced, automatic, defensive, painful. Boulders are not
openly acknowledged.

In this movie, every scene is slightly underplayed. No line or gesture
is over the top. Almost every word of dialogue is realistic. I never
felt that I was being lectured or preached to. I did think that the
background music was too intrusive several times, however, almost as if
someone did not trust Meryl Streep to carry the emotional load of the
scene - an error of judgement. This movie needed no such authorial or
directorial intrusion - That is my only criticism.

"Hope Springs" is a movie about the ingredients of happiness or lack of
same, and the finesse of the actors, the director, the cinematographer
and the editors is magnificent. They never stooped to dwell on any sort
of cliché dialogue or acting flourishes. It was believable.

I felt that the movie really opened up my life. I wish I had seen it 45
years ago when I married for the first time. It is that good.
<|_=00=_|>
Meryl Streep is a wonder, let's start right there. After her towering
portrayal of Margaret Thatcher, an ordinary woman in real danger of
disappearing all together. Real and enormously moving. Tommy Lee Jones
gives us a face we hadn't seen before. Someone so settled in his ways
that he doesn't notice what's happening around him. That's why, I
though, his realization is so poignant. The film is based on a solid
script but the direction is sluggish and uncertain to say the least. It
feels as if the director didn't trust his material. The songs and the
score, out of a Lifetime TV movie, doesn't allow us to connect with the
real truths unfolding in the screen. That, I must confess, was very
annoying. I recommend the film on the strength of the two central
performances. Intimacy between two grown ups reflected on every look on
every move until the score comes to interfere and derail our emotions.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot seemed simple enough, a marriage in trouble, but when you have
Streep and Jones you expect a treat and the did not disappoint at all.
The scenes where they are sitting with the the therapist you can cut
the tension with a knife. You expect Streep to be brilliant and she is,
but Jones more than hold his own. It is difficult to play a man who is
unable to be vulnerable and he truly excelled.

Of course as with every cinematic experience depends on your state of
mind and your demographic. The couple sitting in front of me were
elderly and mid way through the movie the lady leaned over and put her
head on her partner's shoulder and stayed like that through the rest of
the movie. This movie does that to you, it makes you appreciate your
partner more, you can almost thank them for putting up with our own
shortcomings.

This is a real movie for real people ... Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
There are movies that come along that fall in numerous genres. The
latest Hope Springs seems to be pushing the comedy but sports a story
that could easily be delivering the drama so going in is already
somewhat of a mystery on what to really expect. With a stellar cast of
Meryl Streep, Tommy Lee Jones, and Steve Carell is there any way this
film couldn't work on some level? 

Hope Springs follows a married couple who have grown apart. They head
out to Hope Springs to attempt to rekindle their lost spark, but with a
skeptical husband reluctant to take on the treatment is there any
chance of saving this marriage? This is one of those movies that
actually hit the mark successfully being both a comedy and a drama.
When it's funny it hit a lot of really funny, sometimes uncomfortable
funny moments. These are not a bad thing, but more uncomfortable for
the characters in the situation thus causing a bit for the audience.
What makes this film go from something pretty average to deliver
something a bit more is the cast. Jones and Streep have both great
chemistry throughout the film and feel like a real couple during the
problem times as well as the emotional affection ones. This is their
movie to shine and the emotional roller coaster they both deliver
really makes this film work. They bounce around from typical married
couple to acting like teenagers in love like only someone with their
talent could do. Carell does a great job playing the straight laced
doctor, but really only serves as a buffer to help this story of these
too move along. This does showcase another chance to show he is more
than just a funny man, but just doesn't bring a whole lot to the film,
but what he does works well. The story isn't anything all that new, but
will easily affect any age couple in a relationship that have
experienced something like this from the emotional moments to the
comedic ones.

This is a memorable cute heartfelt movie that is usually saved for the
younger cast, but gives it this new twist using the older couple. Jones
and Streep show that they still have it in both the acting chops and
the love story delivering some unexpected sexual humor that elevated
this movie just out of average and into a fun worthwhile cute film.

http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
<|_=00=_|>
Hope Springs (2012) 

*** (out of 4) 

Charming comedy about a married couple (Meryl Streep, Tommy Lee Jones)
who have been together for thirty-one years but the wife starts to
think they're losing everything. She forces her husband to go to a
marriage counselor (Steve Carell) and soon they realize that a lot more
is wrong than they thought. If you're looking for some deep, hard
hitting marriage drama then I highly recommend you check out Ingmar
Bergman's SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE. If you're looking for some light
entertainment that will make you laugh then HOPE SPRINGS is just the
film for you. Yes, I understand you could argue that Streep and Jones
are too talented to appear in such a simple comedy but I personally
don't think it matters and especially since both of them are so
enjoyable here. What really struck me is that the two really do come
across as a real couple who have been together for over thirty-years.
Both actors are clearly into their roles and this is especially true
for Jones who easily steals the picture. He can play grumpy like no
other person out there and he does a terrific job here. His replies to
being pressured by the doctor have a certain comic timing, which I
found downright hilarious at times. Carell is also very good as the man
in the middle. He basically just has to sit there and ask questions but
the actor made the role quite memorable. The film is far from perfect
as there's no doubt that it starts to wear down in the final fifteen
minutes or so but the two actors are simply so charming that it's still
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Good actors. Nice setting (quaint town). This is a story about a stale
relationship. These two people have turned away from each other and
share equal responsibility for their wretched marriage. In the end
though, the husband is forced to bury his pain and his own feelings of
despair. Meanwhile, the wife is portrayed as the sensitive spouse who
is in need of love and attention. This is a very dysfunctional script
about a dysfunctional marriage. Too bad the writer took sides. She
failed this couple, she failed the movie and she failed the viewers who
might be influenced to believe that a man should be tough enough to not
have feelings and needs of his own. "Comedy" was one of the descriptive
adjectives for this movie. There is nothing funny about this movie. It
is a tediously miserable film about tediously miserable lives. You do
not have to watch this movie to become hopelessly disillusioned, just
turn on the six o'clock news.
