
Comedy is tragedy + time, right? We're now over 7 years out from the
apex of the American financial crisis, which spiraled outward across
the world, and yet what has really changed? People are still making
millions/billions off the suffering of others, corporate control reigns
supreme, fraud is common and remains largely unknown, wealth continues
to be ever more concentrated in the grasp of a few, and the remainder
of the populace are treated as proverbial rats and made to feel uncouth
should they question the system and question not wanting to live their
lives playing this sadistic game. Taking 2 pennies and selling them to
someone for a hundred dollars remains a legal activity, just call those
pennies by a different name and suddenly it's okay to pass them off as
fair market.

It doesn't sound funny at all, but The Big Short succeeds in turning
this demented and corrupt circus into something improbably hilarious
and probing. The power of comedy is its ability to let us see something
from a different viewpoint, allow us to process it in ways we wouldn't
have been able to otherwise. As we might laugh at children for the
hilariously unaware things they say and do, so too will humankind in
the future hopefully laugh at how completely pathetic and ignorant our
present society has been. Martin Scorsese opened the flap up into the
circus entrance with "The Wolf of Wall Street" and, while making good
points, was perhaps a bit too concerned with his own technique and had
a bit too much indulgence, reveling in the frivolity of it all. The Big
Short completely blows the top of the circus and dissects it in every
way, starting with the widespread fraud and greed in business, and then
examining how it has seeped into our entire existences. Even the good
guys here are ultimately out there to make money, lots of it. Isn't
that what society tells us we must to do, in order to be valuable? It's
sick.

McKay's approach here is "throw everything in, including the kitchen
sink" and that creates an energetic, brilliantly matched representation
of the subject matter. This does not mean he is lacking control,
however. The story being told includes so many facets and characters
that it easily could have fallen into disarray, but McKay makes every
single character memorable and illuminates every piece of jargon that
could be confusing from the outset. It's a huge accomplishment and a
far more important one than might seem apparent. The things that were
allowed to happen in the realms of business, finance, and banking are
absolutely INSANE and unbelievable. It has to be largely comedic
because there's no other way of delivering this vast amount of
information and complete failure of our entire society and make it all
snap into place so continuously, without being ripped apart by the
overwhelming darkness of it all. This isn't simply circumstantial and
theoretical and mysterious to a degree, as in Oliver Stone's "JFK", but
the cold hard truth.

It's not enough to even ask for the truth anymore and ask for answers,
we need to question the entire system, a whole web of poisonous bonds
that have tightly wound themselves so entirely around us. The work of
the film itself is allowing us to project our thoughts, our fears, our
anger, and our confusions into this convoluted conundrum. All while
being told the truth, so that we at least have a place to even start
down the correct path of understanding. It's acting as our own
investigative journey in a time when actual news and journalism has
become a tiny spec of its former self. We now have more information
than ever available to us, yet it's often so shrouded and twisted as to
become unrecognizable. There are still those who fear education for
what it would do to their own position in life, how it would challenge
their own reality. We are still held under the thumb of "greed is
good", "thinking you're inherently better is good", "vanity is good".

The shiny mainstream hallmarks of a typical Hollywoood commercial
product - the agreeable lighting and manicured actors and tidy
locations - are so perfectly representative in this film of the
emptiness within the characters and indeed in our entire society. After
all the progress we think we've made towards world peace and human
rights and medical advances and the stability of the human race, have
we lost sight of what a fulfilling life and a world of justice should
really be? Aren't we still captive to the same pointless rituals and
superficialities, doesn't a veritable monarch and royal court still
control most everything? We are now living our lives working for
something that can be wiped out with the stroke of a keyboard. We are
told something of monetary worth that is non-existent, for all intents
and purposes, is something we should strive for. Making a bet on the
outcome of another bet is a whole industry. The non-existent and
ridiculous and pointless directly hurts the lives of many.

The Big Short is one of the most important films of this era and one of
the best. I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time. It is an
illumination, a magical pairing of a director's sensibility to exactly
the correct form that most fully allows it to blossom and hold water.
It is water which the film warns us will be the next basic human
necessity to be denied by those few who hold power.
<|_=00=_|>
I will keep the review simple. Although some of the financial jargon
went over my head, i would say Adam McKay is a genius, to make a movie
about the financial crisis this much entertaining, funny and touching
that's a feat only few filmmakers can pull off, and a lot of that has
to do with the tremendous cast of this movie. The Big Short has a large
ensemble cast but focuses on four major players who benefited in
various ways from betting against the American economy. Steve Carell
gives one of the best performance of his career, Christian bale
portrays the awkward lonely genius with ease. Ryan gosling is slick
over the top and funny in this movie he also makes the whole thing much
more interesting. Brad Pitt is kind of a good guy and the moral center.
This is a must see, and needs multiple viewings to truly appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing Small about "The Big Short"

"The Big Short" is based on the book with the same name by financial
journalist Michael Lewis. It is about collateralized debt obligations,
subprime mortgages, credit default swaps and bundling. A snoozer right?
Not one bit. "The Big Short" is more entertaining than most films in
the cineplex this holiday season. Even if you don't know much about the
subprime mortgage crisis of 2007-08, you will recognize a quality film
and want to know more about the world economic collapse when the film
is over. 

The film uses a multitude of techniques to tell the story. There are
fourth-wall breaking monologues, a model in a bubble bath explaining
economics as well as a singing idol and a celebrity chef using
metaphors of cooking and gambling to explain the economic crisis. There
are jump cuts, slow motion, foreshadowing and flash backs. The
filmmakers use any and all tricks to explain a complicated mess of
financial chicanery in order to help the audience understand. The
banks, mortgage brokers, the credit ratings agencies and the government
manipulated people in the nation and world into investing in worthless
packages of bonds, and it behooves the director and writer, Adam McKay,
to use all cinematic tricks to explain and untangle the financial
corruption. The miracle is that the film deciphers the economic
melt-down well while entertaining its audience. 

The acting is stellar from the stars to the bit players. They aren't
just playing a role, they embody characters during a remarkable time in
history. My mother thinks Steve Carrell was the best actor in the film,
for she did not even recognize him at first. He plays against character
and she liked that. However, my mother had never seen Carrell in "The
Office." His character, Mark Baum, is much like the boss from that
television series. However, in "The Big Short", he plays it straight.
He is a boss of a fund under the umbrella of Morgan Stanley (but it's
not Morgan Stanley, and his team likes to point out), and he is on a
mission to bring down banks, to show them up, and to prove he's been
right about the financial warning signs. He is betting against the hand
that feeds him, Morgan Stanley.

I preferred Christian Bale's performance as Michael Burry, an
unselfconscious, manic math genius. I haven't seen that frightening
look in Bale's eyes since "American Psycho", but this time he's only
killing the mortgage backed securities market. Meanwhile, Brad Pitt,
under- playing another disaffected former banker, Brad Rickert, helps
two friends make millions while they bet against terrible investments,
or "play short" the mortgage market. His backstory is revealed steadily
and in a way that makes us wonder why he briefly got back into the
investment "game." Even Ryan Gosling makes his mark in this
star-studded cast playing the prescient "Jared Vennett." Remember, all
the characters in the film are based on real people. And that is what
makes it so remarkable. 

The other major players in the film are Bear Stearns, Morgan Stanley,
and a slew of investment houses who at best ignore the coming financial
crisis or at worst, colluded in its creation. From the realtors selling
the mortgages, to the banks loaning at subprime, to the banks bundling
the worthless packages, they were all making too much money to want to
stop. This is exactly the kind of over-exuberance that occurred in the
1920s stock market crash, but few payed attention then or in 2007. 

"The Big Short" is a dramatized film of true events. And to make sure
we understand, the actors break the fourth wall several times to tell
us what part is true to the detail and what part is fictionalized to
make it more dramatic. But if you are still incredulous, read the book.
The events are all sadly true, and we are still paying for it. 

Rating: Pay full price (but you might want to see it twice.) 

It will take at least two viewings to catch half of what is embedded in
this film. This film is entertaining, educational and relevant. 

Peace, Tex Shelters
<|_=00=_|>
Don't know how Adam McKay made deplorable humans, blinding fear,
gut-boiling outrage and gleeful shaming so much fun to watch. He
brought along his bag o' laffs but planted them in such rich soil so we
had to hack our way through the thick underbrush of tainted greenbacks
and marked decks.

Everyone's in top form. Didn't recognize Brad Pitt for awhile. Ryan
Gosling funniest. Christian Bale let us feel his pain and lonely
genius. Steve Carell dug deep and came up with a real mensch.

Nice to see Marisa Tomei, Hamish Linklater, John Magaro, Rafe Spall,
Finn Wittrock, Max Greenfield and talented others working at a solid
level.

I walked out of the Westwood Bruin Theater in awe and mad as hell.
<|_=00=_|>
Reviewed by Larry Gleeson. Viewed during the AFI Filmfest 2015.

"The Big Short," directed by Adam McKay, based on the book by Michael
Lewis, was adapted by McKay and Charles Randolph and made its world
premiere Thursday, November 12, 2015 at the historic TCL Grauman's
Chinese Theater as the closing night film for the latest edition of the
American Film Institute's AFI FEST film festival.

The film's narrative is driven by four cynical, fringe Wall Street
entities disgusted with the large banking institutions' overriding
greed for profits. They make the decision to capitalize on the ensuing
housing market calamity and the financial meltdown of 2008 upon
discovering the market frenzy is being driven by worthless collateral
debt obligations.

McKay chooses to inject a significant dose of humor in the early scenes
to condition the audience receptors for what they are about to
experience. Utilizing the Martin Scorsese docudrama style in a similar
setting with "Wolf of Wall Street," a strong narrative voice dominates
particular moments. Several of these deliberately break the 'Fourth
Wall" in the style of "Wolfie," Jordan Belfort, as the characters,
including a hilarious cameo by Selena Gomez, speak directly into the
camera to explain the complexities of Wall Street finance. The overall
effect adds additional humor and adds another layer in creating a sense
of authenticity and truth about the film's subject matter.

After a rather lengthy dizzying, yet delightful, character
introduction, the film picks up pace as the drama begins to unfold. Dr.
Michael Burry, an eccentric financial analyst, with complete autonomy
of an investment fund, uncovers variables in his economic forecast
indicating a massive housing market collapse. He informs his higher up,
Lawrence Fields, played convincingly by Tracy Letts, of his discovery
and creates a financial prospectus. In essence, he creates a commodity
of selling short on bundled mortgages.

The bankers laugh as they willingly sell Burry all the "insurance" he
wants. Word quickly spreads of Burry's perceived madness in a
after-work cocktail scene. With interest piqued upon overhearing the
Wall Street gossip of the day, Jarred Bennett, portrayed by Ryan
Gosling, scoops up the essence of Burry's move. Soon, he sells a group
led by Steve Carell's all-too-human, Mark Baum to buy in.

As the debacle is in full free-fall, Baum struggles with disbelief as
he and his group have bet against their own umbrella entity, Morgan
Stanley. The final team that has uncovered the impending financial
crisis, made up of two Wall Street neophytes and veteran Ben Rickert,
played by one of the film's producers, Brad Pitt, also struggles with
the imploding financial system caused by corporate greed and
indifference.

With a mammoth cast, McKay draws on a plethora of talent in the likes
of Hollywood A-listers including Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, Selena Gomez,
Christian Bale, Karen Gillan Steve Carell, Marisa Tomei, Melissa Leo
and Finn Wittrock. McKay and Randolph create characters with witty
dialogue coupled with complementary cinematography provided by Barry
Ackroyd. The soundtrack carries a similar tone of "Wolf of Wall
Street," with a compilation of classic rock anthems. Nicholas Britell
widely recognized for his work on Steve McQueen's "12 Years a Slave,"
where Britell composed on set the on-screen violin performances, work
songs, dances and spiritual songs rarely misses a beat this time out.
Much like another AFI FEST 2015 film, "The Clan," Argentina's official
entry to the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences Best Foreign
Language Category for Oscar, "The Big Short," musical score is often in
juxtaposition to the the narrative and mies-en-scene adding a deeper
visceral quality to the viewing experience.

In its most basic essence, "The Big Short," builds on the visceral
truth of Scorsese's "Wolf of Wall Street." It depicts a not-so-long-ago
present where a noble ideal, making home ownership a reality for
Americans, is bastardized by the indifferent market forces of
capitalism. Probably not what Adam Smith had in mind when he penned his
treatise, "The Wealth of Nations." Warmly Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
First for newbies, the events here took place prior to the Kevin Spacey
film Margin Call (2011). So the Spacey film would have depicted events
near the end of this film. Both are superb movies.

Back to the review. This film is very unusual in that the producers
have shown fierce determination in taking a serious topic and making it
as user friendly as one possibly can. Multiple techniques are used to
this end and they all work well. In fact in places the film has a Monty
Python quality. Why was this done? One can only assume that the
producers understood the multiple studies showing that the modern
city-dweller becomes uncomfortable when confronted with any facts which
suggest that he or she was not paying attention when bad things were
happening. After all we live in a democracy so the voters should have
been more alert? Isn't that their job? The techniques mentioned attempt
to appeal to our SESAME STREET side and make the whole thing as
pleasant an educational experience as possible. But make no mistake,
this is an educational movie.

One that should be mandatory for adults. Like getting a driving test
before a license. How about learning about Wall Street and the banks
before you invest with them...? Carell steals the film and may finally
get the attention he deserves. Great actor.

Finally the message. The film suggests not only that Wall Street is
corrupt but that the corruption extends to the agencies mandated to
supervise Wall Street and (possibly) to Washington itself. The implicit
message, conveyed in the end credits, that unless we deal with the
problem at the source the symptoms will keep happening over and over
and over.

Duh!
<|_=00=_|>
Harry Knowles once wrote a review of Das Boot that said the movie was
so well made that you'd find yourself rooting for Nazi sailors trying
to sink American ships. So here. You find yourself rooting for clever
"outsiders and weirdos," as one of them puts it, who saw what nobody
else wanted to see -- that an immense structure of mortgage based
securities was doomed to collapse because it rested on the backs of
subprime borrowers who couldn't support the weight and should never
have been loaned the money. We have been taught by generations of
fiction to identify with characters who are outsiders and rebels.
Because these guys are smart, because they are antisocial and because
they were laughed at by smug fools who believed the conventional
wisdom, you identify with them, and you wait anxiously for their
vindication. Then you realize that their vindication means the collapse
of the American economy. They were the guys on the Titanic who knew
what the iceberg meant.

Michael Lewis, from whose book the movie was adapted, got his training
at Salomon Brothers in the mid-80s, as mortgage based securities were
being invented. (There's an early shout-out to Lew Ranieri, the Salomon
trader who invented them.) As anyone knows who's read Lewis's memoir of
those days, Liar's Poker, the culture at Salomon was that your job was
to be smarter than everybody else in the bond market, understand values
better, and know what other traders were going to do before they knew
it themselves. If you were smart enough, you deserved whatever you took
away from somebody less smart on the other side of the trade. That's
why Lewis admires his protagonists and that, despite a thick coating of
moral outrage, is the heart of the movie. The guys who shorted the
housing market weren't any more virtuous or less greedy than the great
majority of complacent, conventionally minded bankers who believed that
the trees would keep growing all the way up to the sky. They just saw
more clearly and had plenty of nerve and faith in their own judgment.
If they had been wrong, as shorts often are, they and their clients
would have been wiped out. When they turned out right, they took the
money and kept it, even if some of them felt guilty about it. 

I know somewhat about this area, having litigated some of the
aftermath. The celebrity cameo explanations of subprime debt,
collateralized debt obligations, and synthetic CDOs are not only simple
but accurate -- the two involving Anthony Bourdain and Selena Gomez are
downright elegant. The key concept of the credit default swap comes out
nicely through the dialogue -- a chance to buy fire insurance on the
house down the street just before it catches fire. There are a couple
of more points that could have used the same thing, especially when
people start talking about "FICO scores." It could also have been a
little more clear that the eventual collapse was delayed because the
smarter investment banks like Goldman finally woke up, saw it coming,
unloaded their CDO inventory on investors who were still asleep, and
cut their losses by buying swaps themselves. But this is a smart,
entertaining telling of an outrageous true story. It deserves all the
praise it has gotten, and maybe an Oscar for best adapted screenplay.
If it teaches people without a financial background a little of what
went on, it will be more than a momentary entertainment. But it will
certainly entertain.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Big Short' is a winner. Based on Michael Lewis book of the same
title, it tells the sorry story of the fraud and deceit practiced on
the American people, nay, on the world by Wall Streets finance
capitalism. We know the culprits: Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Lehman
Bros., Morgan Stanley, Citibank, Wachovia, Crdit Suisse, UBS and on and
on who invented financial instruments such as CDO, credit swaps and
other fancy unintelligible names, based on mortgages, with the
connivance of the credit agencies--Dow Jone, Standard and Poors and
Fitch. 'The Big Short' with a light seriousness is a crash course on
the duplicity of Wall Street investment bankers who earned large fees
on junk bonds with triple A ratings; who bundled junk to palm off on an
unsuspecting public looking for big gains by pandering to the snake oil
exilir of getting rich quickly; and who feed on the niavety of the
broad American have-nots with the dream of owning a home of their own.
And so with some humor but much sadness are we lead through the byways
of four different groups of bankers who saw the hoax for what it was
and its impending implosion that would bring down the deck of cards of
capitalism. And the took out bets on the market, by buying short. And
they won big time! But the banks are still around, and the ratepayers
footed the bailout, but at what cost! And we see this in the turmoil of
the Republican party: for the discontent abroad in the US has thrown
more than 25 percent of the population into poverty, loss of jobs,
home, into heavy debt and no future for their children. And these banks
have not reformed their ways...now they've come up with the same of
gimmicks with a fancy name--something like beneficial financial
tranche--as the play the same old mug's game. And like the Bourbons, t
The cast is stellar--especially Christian Bale and Steve Carell and
Ryan Gosling as well as the minor players. And like the Bourbons, in
the words of Talleyrand, 'they learned nothing and forgot nothing', but
the contempt they have for all of us. And to make the case stronger,
the fools on the Supreme Court have strengthened the hands of big money
and the oligopoly and the fat cats of Wall Street and the coupon
clippers and the devil take the rest of us!
<|_=00=_|>
No subject in the world is inherently interesting or uninteresting, for
it's always about the communicative method or channel used to promote
or inform one about the subject that is either interesting or not.
Having said that, some subjects are more alienating than others, and
one of those subjects is economics/finance, largely because of its
dependency upon a plethora of terminology and jargon that usually
cannot be adequately defined without including other terminology or
jargon. Before you know it, searching the definition of something like
a "Roth IRA" leads you to Google searches about embezzlement and
quantitative easing in efforts to try and circumvent and define what
you were originally looking for.

Thankfully, Adam McKay's The Big Short assumes the audience is fairly
stupid and blissfully ignorant when it comes to the interworkings of
what led to the global economic crisis of 2007-2008, which saw record
unemployment and catastrophic results for the usually reliable housing
market. In true movie fashion, we observe the financial crash, not from
an insider standpoint, where sure-fire, grade-A trades and exchanges
are being made, but by a plethora of quirky outsiders trying to run
away from a boulder that keeps gaining on them until it flattens them
and everyone in their tracks. The only ones saved are the ones who
didn't manage to fall or stumble when pushing said boulder down the
hill in the first place.

We initially meet a quirky hedge fund manager named Michael Burry
(Christian Bale), who discovers that the U.S. housing market is based
on a series of subprime loans (which, we are told by Margot Robbie as
she soaks in a bubblebath whilst sipping champagne, may as well be
synonymous with "s***") and is inevitably going to collapse sometime in
the second quarter of 2007. Being that the housing market is often
viewed as the safest bet in America, Michael begins to go around to
different banks to bet against the stability and long-term security of
the housing market in efforts to profit from the impending disaster.

Then there's Jared Vennett (Ryan Gosling), a fairly small-time
investor, who winds up putting in his own money to bet against the
housing market, along with Mark Baum (Steve Carell), a cynical and
depressed banker of many years. The two wind up discovering that the
market collapse is further aided by the solicitation of collateralized
debt obligations (CDOs), basically collections of the aforementioned
subprime loans that come packaged together and market as competent and
reliable investments.

Finally, there's Charlie Geller (John Magaro) and Jamie Shipley (Finn
Wittrock), two young-bloods anxious to break into the financial market.
The inexperienced duo enlist in the help of a retired, conservative
banker named Ben Rickert (Brad Pitt), who helps them make decisions
with their money. Unlike the other more experienced men, both Charlie
and Jamie lack the kind of gusto and namesake that allows them into the
offices of big name bankers. As a result, they pine for a bigger piece
of the pie in a smaller way, largely by lounging in their parents'
basements, hunched over their iPads.

The Big Short functions as a competent, satirical anthology that breaks
down the financial crisis - that is now nearly a decade old, if you can
believe that - enough to be informative and entertaining. Considering
this is from Adam McKay, a frequent collaborator with Will Ferrell and
Funny or Die, responsible for films like Casa De Mi Padre, The Other
Guys, and Step Brothers, this is a huge step in the right direction for
him as a name in comedy and satire. Rather than focusing on a
bargain-barrel Spanish telenovela satire or a tired, mean-spirited
comedy based around who can yell the loudest, McKay sets his sights on
peddling information through the most communicable form -
entertainment. If you can succeed in meriting consistent laughs while
teaching an audience something, you have profoundly succeeded at two
things many have a difficult time accomplishing in a separate sense.
That alone is worth considerable praise.

While the screenplay by McKay and Charles Randolph is undoubtedly a big
part at why this film succeeds, The Big Short is a true testament to
brilliant comedic acting on various cylinders, as well. The men of the
hour, specifically, are both Bale and Carell, seriously taking on
opposite personas that they pull off to a tee. Bale plays confused and
downright quirky with just the right amount of edge to make him
believable rather than hopelessly incompetent or downright silly, and
Carell's sporadic bouts of rage and lack of self-awareness make him all
the more watchable screen presence. Other performances, like Gosling's,
who serves as the infrequent, anti-hero narrator, is notable for its
brash charm, in addition to Pitt, who works largely because he's even
more understated and harder to define than in his latest film By the
Sea.

The Big Short has a lot of comedic value, but it's nonetheless a
frightening depiction of where America is currently at; a depressing
oligarchy, controlled and manipulated by those with money at the mercy
of those without. We've seen "The Great Recession of 2007," as it's
sometimes called, plunge numerous working class and poor families into
further states of hopelessness, while those who helped cause and
further the effects of the recession have gone on to have a road of
many ups and few downs since then. McKay's eye, ear, and talent for
conducting satire in a way that's simultaneously uproariously funny, in
addition to having the ability to be truly upsetting, is quite
marvelous and unexpected, and one can only hope that with proper
recognition and compensation for his efforts on this film, he furthers
down this path rather than the one he was previously on.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all don't be fooled by other reviews. This movie is neither a
crap nor a masterpiece.

It has a lot of technical terms and jargon from the world of economics
and despite the obvious effort to explain things (including breaking
the 4th wall (i.e. talking direct to the audience while looking into
the camera), and cameo appearances from movies stars like Margot Robbie
and Selina Gomez) you will probably fail to understand in depth the
mechanics of what is happening.

The world of banks, funds, bonds, financing and the stock market will
remain a mystery for most of the viewers.

Big names of Hollywood star in the Big Short including Brad Pitt, Ryan
Gosling, Christian Bale and others. They play real persons, who had an
insight on the global economic crisis we probably still experiencing.

As a movie it has its own style. Something of a documentary, a comedy
sometimes, but essentially a drama since the crisis cost 8 million
people their job and their homes.

People who are impressed easily might tell you this is a "masterpiece".
Believe me it isn't. But I recommend to see it. Even better at home
where you can pause or rewind the movie to understand better. It is
lengthy (130min) but you won't get bored. It needs some patience though
especially in the beginning and not to be disappointed when terms like
CDO, payouts etc. are starting to emerge.
