
It sucks that they had to put up a poster of this movie with Duke
(Channing Tatum) and Joe (Bruce Willis) so grossly misleading when Duke
showed up about what 10 mins or so then dies and Joe shows up when half
of the movie is already finished, and not getting much burn at that (I
should have known, how many of Willis's recent movies has been like
this already). For an average movie goer like me (i'd like to think of
myself like that) that doesn't normally go researching(goggling stuff)
before watching a movie, I was sucked up by the poster itself expecting
a whole lot of Duke and Joe in action. In my opinion, The Rock is not a
bad actor himself but sadly he is not able to carry the movie by
himself. I believe the movie producers/marketers or whoever is
responsible for creating that misleading poster cheated people for
their money. To be honest I am not sure I would be going to watch the
movie in theater had I known I would be only getting this much, It's
one of the movies I could have waited to be available on HBO\TV or on
DVD. I did like the special effects though, especially the mountain
action scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
As a film buff, I love seeing films alone on Saturday afternoons or
Friday nights. As as result of my frequent attendance, I have come to
know not to expect much from action blockbuster films. Yes, you get
your usual incomprehensible hand-to-hand fights, buildings exploding
and enemy gunfire as inaccurate as ever, with the inevitably minimal
plot and screenplay. As the ending credits rolled, I stood up thinking
"ehhh". The film definitely had some amazingly entertaining action
sequences and awesome special effects, but you know, you can't really
be THAT amazed with an action film. Not gonna lie, the screenplay in
this film was pretty well written, and it included quite a few
pleasantly surprising laughs. Dwayne Johnson has a big few months ahead
of him with the release of Snitch (which I give a 7/10), the next Fast
and Furious movie, and Pain & Gain. With this film, he did reinforce
his true acting credentials, even though not much notable acting is
observed in such a genre. All in all, if you're expecting something
like Olympus Has Fallen, you might be dissatisfied. If you go in like
me, with no true expectations other than hoping for some entertainment,
you might like what you see.
<|_=00=_|>
It's amazing how many good movies produced this year have been
relegated to sub-par status, while others that shouldn't be given a
glance are given zenith status as great pieces of work, art, and other
such pop-cultural sub- standard excrescences achieve more than their
worth in fool's gold. One such picture - I'm sorry - movie, that
audiences will endure a release of, either glorifyingly, or harshly, is
G.I. Joe: Retaliation, the new brawn packed action farce from Paramount
Pictures.

Starring Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, and with appearances by Bruce
Willis and Channing Tatum, the film offers no social commentary,
consists of nothing remotely engaging (I tended to doze off on even the
action scenes), and pities itself with egregious CGI 3-D effects that
disappear mid-air depending on where one sits in the audience. There is
no basis for being an audience member, because the effects are so
jarring, that the viewer will not be able to involve itself to anything
worth sitting for an hour and forty minutes for (which trust me, there
wouldn't be anyway.) But that's not the half of the film's problems.

The real problem stems from lack of plot. More like no plot. The film
is supposed to be a sequel, or rather, a continuation of the original
G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra, but even by todays standards, the
filmmakers weren't trying to mark any new ground. All we get is one
action sequence after another. Even James Cameron knows you need a
through-line of plot device to make these kinds of movies work, but
director Jon M. Chu doesn't have enough respect for the audience to
even give them that. Instead, we are mindlessly treated to fast shots
of punches being thrown, with no idea who is throwing them, why, or if
we should care. 

Seriously. We only know one thing. The good guys will always win. Never
a good sign when you go to the movies to know how they end, with no
conscious minding of what it will take to get there. Don't waste your
money, my friends. Still, more muscular contractions ache this bastard
of a performer.

Those involved knew this was just a paycheck - examine the evidence;
Dennis Quaid did not return, and subsequently they need Bruce Willis to
carry the big name legacy. Channing Tatum has his screen time
terminally reduced, not a great sign because most audiences will
probably be wanting to see the film solely for his performance. The
writer was clearly hired to write a how-to on perfecting scripts for
CGI based stories. This wouldn't be such an insult to film purists and
enthusiasts alike if it wasn't such a dreary waste of time and money.
There is nothing there in terms of story or structure. The movie
starts, and it's action scenes strung together with no link. Then you
leave. I would disclose such a plot to entice what viewers may
challenge the notion of wasting their money if such a plot existed!
It's a disgusting practice of show-off acrobatics by computer geniuses
that would be better suited decrypting or ciphering codes left behind
from the Zodiac Killer or the Unabomber! This is not why we go to the
movies. We go to be entertained, and I predict that many an audience
member be robbed of their hard earned cash in this recession, and by
such standards and caused an equal recession in film quality! Honestly,
there has to be a better place for films in today being tomorrow's
history, than this!

An early release for such a seemingly summer blockbuster - it's obvious
Paramount wants to get this one out of the way, so they don't have to
worry about a summer release tanking to the bottom of the swimming pool
(a place where the pre-teens normally disposed to this mendicant tar
would be better off spending the day.) It's futile to promote a product
without any real integrity, or so I thought. Amazing what a little
muscle can do. It's already seen some couple million smackers (across
the face!) for it's previews and advance releases, but when it all
comes down, G.I. Joe: Retaliation is one hunk of movie that holds a
strong PR campaign in it's biceps, but can't think for itself, and
never latches on to the timeless fact that the real strength of a movie
lies in it's story and it's characters, both factors of the machine
that are simultaneously weak.
<|_=00=_|>
G.I. Joe: Rise of Cobra feels like it belongs to a different age of
blockbusters. It had a hard time fitting in to the modern generation
thus most moviegoers never find it as appealing as the other films that
was released on that year. Those rants can be true only in some
reasons. The film is undeniably silly and dumb but it was never boring
and has its own quality. Since people are now asking for darker and
much serious blockbusters, this sequel reduces all the silliness that
was displayed on the original. G.I. Joe: Retaliation is cooler and less
cartoony. Unfortunately, it is also less exciting and terribly
uninspired. The action may be better looking but the lack of fortitude
and creativity made it fall short into another visual showcase stress.

"Awesome" is the main goal of this sequel. While the original was too
corny to impress, this film darkens the tone and made it a bit down to
earth. It abandons the silly gadgets and the ridiculous laws of physics
that was shown in the original. But the film fails to be both dark and
realistic. Not only because of those robotic fireflies and the mass
annihilating missiles but the secret prisons and the government are
unbelievably dumb to manage their job. Well, it's a blockbuster based
on toys so it will never be too realistic. Deal with it while we are
here for the fun. The dark aspects aren't dark at all. What they only
do is to be serious. This seriousness blocks the potential joy and
turns it into standard blockbuster bland.

The storytelling is quite messy. It's like an uninteresting version of
Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol with uninteresting characters. The
storytelling from the first movie wasn't great either since it is
cluttered with cheesy flashbacks. But it's worse here because it takes
some twists that are absurdly incoherent. And so, it's all pretentious.
The characters are boring and even the performances can't bring them to
life. Dwayne Johnson is the only good thing among them though, Bruce
Willis is trying to make fun of himself again as a crazy grandaddy, and
the villains ham it up which isn't suppose to be a bad thing but they
can't give enough personality to them.

The action scenes are acceptable enough to call awesome at least. With
all the explosions and the none CGI-ed machines, it seems to be really
exciting, but it's not. It does a fine job to be pretty but there's a
difference between good looking and exciting. There's only a little
suspense. If there is actually suspense and joy then it would be found
at the mountain ninja fight but it's just mild and still glosses some
slow motions in it. For the rest of the action, the heroes are always
superior. Plus more explosions and slow-mos. The action is stylishly
directed anyway. The fight between Snake Eyes and Storm Shadow remains
to be the only action that excites and one part of the climax has a
nutty scene with The Rock riding huge vehicles and shooting like a
badass. The production designs, special effects, and costumes gets
better. What else to talk about it?

The absence of the Joes' ridiculous transportation and weapons,
holograms, and other snazzy gadgets may please our modern viewers but
it also forgets why this material is interesting anyway. Now we only
get typical military stuff. It still has some crazy devices but it's
limited compare to the first film. Rise of Cobra wasn't a classic. It's
nothing more than a simple guilty pleasure. Same with Retaliation
except this one can't even be completely pleasurable unless you want
some endless visual coolness. Cool is not a bad thing but it could have
been creative and much more exciting instead of showing off slow-mos on
screen. To be fair, it's mildly entertaining and good to look at. If
the film wasn't this visually awesome, it would have been an empty
cinema. The series still fails to justify its source material.
<|_=00=_|>
G.I. Joe Retaliation is an strictly average action movie.

The movie has the same repeated story,which we have often seen in many
action movies before.

For me,what made G.I Joe Retaliation more disappointing is Bruce
Willis.He had hardly any screen-space to showcase his action skills.

G.I Joe Retaliation is a movie made for the teens.The teens are surely
going to love this one! There are many action sequences in this
movie,but only a few stand out.The action sequence in the Himalayas is
the highlight of the movie.This action sequence has been shot very
nicely.

The direction is mediocre.

Performance: Dwayne Johnson is fine.Channing Tatum is strictly
okay.Elodie Yung,Ray Park and Adrianne Palicki are just okay.Bruce
Willis disappoints.

All in all,G.I.Joe Retaliation is a strictly average action movie.I
would recommend this flick for the teens but not for adults.I am giving
it a four on ten.
<|_=00=_|>
Not to give too much away but the story is weak and can be summed up
with this equation:

4 GI Joes - 3 ninjas = 1 movie you wish you'd never seen!!!

My wife and I sat and waited for action, and waited, them waited some
more... It finally came like my brother melting my Duke action figure
with a lighter and Aqua-Net. Horrible plot, good special effects, and a
stereo-typical ending. The next DirecTV add will say cable is worse
than... Sitting thru GI Joe 2.

If you don't believe me, waste your money, then contact me for an "I
told you so!"
<|_=00=_|>
I had 50/50 hopes for this movie and felt a bit bummed out when it was
told that it will be delayed to March 2013 but I thought maybe it was
for the best so I decided to give it chance. Now after nearly a year of
waiting, I have to say I was a bit disappointed

First off, they promised to explain what happened to the characters in
the previous film that didn't show up (ripcord, Scarlett etc.) but no
explanation was given whatsoever as well as wanting to strengthen Duke
and Baroness character but nothing was ever explained. 2nd storywise,
it was not that very interesting in my opinion and there some parts
which I find a bit illogic and not explained like how did Storm Shadow
survive. The guy just like appeared out of no where

Character wise, Cobra rules compared to the Joes. Lady Jaye and Flint
were not really that interesting to watch and the romance between them
didn't really look that convincing. Killing off Duke Hauser (Channing
Tatum)and letting Roadblock (The Rock) take over as team leader for me
was the biggest letdown in my opinion since he never really looked that
great playing the lead role. Bruce Willis was OK a Joe but nothing
exciting but for me the best Joe out there would have to be Snake Eyes
(Ray Park). His performances were great as usual and really made the
movie looked exciting

As for the villains, I really wanted to see Zartan fight with somebody
but that didn't happen. Destro was the biggest disappointment for me
since they killed his character off just like that. Cobra Commander
looked better in this outfit that the previous one but there was really
nothing from him but in my opinion, the best villain and character of
the entire movie has got to go to Firefly (Ray Stevenson) His character
was so wicked cool and I really loved how those nano flys were used as
his explosion device. Though a villain, he stood out the most in the
film for me I can't say much for the rest of the cast like Storm Shadow
and Jinx since there wasn't really anything much from them

However I find it kind of hard to believe that this is a G.I Joe movie
since apart from Snake Eyes, there wasn't really anything that made me
feel that these guys were the G.I Joes since it felt like there were
very little connection between this team to the previous G.I Joe team
in the first movie

Overall a bit of a letdown compared to the first movie and it didn't
seemed like it was a sequel to the first G.I Joe movie and it wasn't
really worth watching it in 3D either
<|_=00=_|>
After 2009, surprisingly well done Rise of Cobra, I was expecting an
entertain sequel anticipating how the writers and director would tie in
Zartan as President. It seems the studio decided to reboot the
franchise by decided to continue parts of the previous storyline which
fails horribly. The movie ends up being a mashed up, thrown together
movie with little continuation of the previous storyline and muscular
actors whose roles are just being muscular people with guns. The movies
basic premise is around nuclear disarmament. With the GI Joe's forced
to rebuild and discover the plan of Cobra before they destroy the
world.

The only good part of the movie is the opening where The Rock and
Channing Tatum display the only enjoyable on screen chemistry of any of
the actors. Unfortunately, that chemistry is blown up roughly 15
minutes in when Tatum's character is blown up. When Tatum is killed The
Rock's character is upset for about two minutes. Stranded in a desert,
The Rock, Lady Jaye and Flint somehow manage to make it back to
America. Though how is unknown. To avoid being found, the trio hide in
an abandon rec centre where they find weights and old computers from
over a decade ago. Yet 5 minutes later is all upgraded to state of the
art technology, in which lady Jaye is able to find videos of the
present discover his commonly used phrases and hand position before and
after Zartan has become President. Yes all this on 1995 technology that
magically upgrades and takes her a matter of hours. Now the side plot
which is equally as awful. Stormshadow who appeared to be dead at the
end of the first movie somehow is alive. Stormshadow breaks Cobra
commander out of prison leaving destro. But is badly burn during his
escape. To recover from his burns, Stormshadow travels to the mountains
where he is revived. SnakeEyes and his protégé climb the mountain drug
Stormshadow to return him to the place of their training as seen in the
first movie. As in the first movie they are trying Stormshadow for
murdering the master. Stormshadow then proves to the council he is not
guilty as it was not his sword. Back video shows it was Zartan in
disgust. Stormshadow joins the Joes in fight against Cobra. Need I say
more the plot is illogical leaving anyone who saw the first movie
scratching their heads. Flint and Lady Jaye prove to be nothing more
than eye candy for the viewer as they have very little back story and
don't advance the previous story. The films ending action sequence is
rushed and poorly planned out. The scene boils down to the Joes showing
up little planning and no story on where the building is there are
attacking. Yet kill everyone but Cobra commander and save the day.
<|_=00=_|>
This second G.I JOE film doesn't have much in terms of a well thought
out plot but it does have some great visuals and is packed with loads
of well staged action sequences so action movie buffs should have a
blast. For those also seeking more of a character story it's still best
to look somewhere else.

The acting is however surprisingly good given the film's plot. Dwayne
Johnson and Channing Tatum both bring a certain likability to their
characters and I enjoyed watching them the most and of course Adrianne
Palicki who was very friendly on the eyes.

Overall, The film might not have much of a plot but the great visuals
and the well made action sequences keep it from becoming a total bore.
Those who want more of a character driven plot might not think very
much of it.
<|_=00=_|>
With Channing, Dwayne,Lee, Bruce and most importantly Palicki in this
one, you'd expect real fast-paced action with great visuals. On the
latter, it delivers as the visuals are great and one of the best of the
recent. On the prior, not so much as the storyline drags unnecessarily
around the US Prez. Palicki brings in the much needed eye-candy for the
hardcore action fans though only in glimpses while Channing, being the
chick-magnet gets one big anxious sigh from the ladies in the first
half of the movie. Dwayne does what Dwayne does - kicks ass! Cotrona,
however looks like he's done this one for free as he hardly has much to
do and beats me why he's even there. Snake eyes, Jinx, Zartan & Firefly
entertain as characters with purpose. RZA is a big LOL. 

There's muscle,hard-hitting physical combat action, sensuality,
technology, star-appeal and pretty interesting automobiles. All you
need if you're an action fan. Now if only they could somehow
mysteriously put in an interesting and not-so-predictable storyline,
then we'd have a real blockbuster hit worth your ticket money!
