
Contraband is a paint by numbers action/thriller. It would be easy to
pick on everything that this movie wasn't, but can you blame chicken
nuggets for being chicken nuggets? With a rookie screenwriter at the
helm, the script suffers from a mash-up of cliché's. They start with
"One last heist" and end with "If you want to save your family you'll
do as you're told". There were many déjà-vu moments of been there and
done that.

The star power was strong, but given so very little to work with in the
way of character back story. All the characters were two dimensional
representations of stereotypes. The locations (New Orleans & Panama)
were interesting choices but never really quite fit. While the movie
wasn't action packed, it moved at a good pace and kept my interest the
whole time. The film work was solid as a whole. There was one
particular action sequence that takes place around the halfway mark
that was done very well.

If you have a craving that only chicken nuggets will satisfy, then I
think you will come away fairly happy. Not a necessity to see on the
big screen, but that helps it a little. Leave your thinking cap
outside, that's the contraband that will keep you from enjoying this as
it was intended.
<|_=00=_|>
Contraband starts like "Gone in 60 Seconds", but instead of boosting
cars it's about smuggling contraband, and like GI6S it's because of an
idiot younger brothers and familial responsibilities that brings an
ex-criminal/smuggler out of retirement for that one last job. Chris our
smuggler protagonist is deemed the Houdini of smuggling but in reality,
he's a general super bad-ass who can talk fast, kick ass and smuggle at
superhero levels. We are then treated to the Mark Wahlberg show where
it's hard to imagine anything adverse happening to him and we just go
along with the ride.

The movie is at its best after it sheds its GI6S intro and moves to the
nitty gritty details of smuggling. The movie feels at home at sea where
everything is calculated and ordered, but while on land, the movie is
always bizarre, violent and out of control. This lends for some really
angular storytelling that keeps the movie exciting and interesting.

It's great to see Kate Beckinsdale in the movies again though she plays
the wife whose main role is to look great and be in distress, a far cry
from her iconic Underworld Selene or from her last movie Whiteout.

On the whole it's a good action movie and if you liked Mark Wahlberg's
previous movies like the Italian Job and Shooter, you will also like
this.
<|_=00=_|>
Contraband is a well-made action film with strong acting, good
directing, and great cinematography that draws you into New Orleans,
Panama, and their freight ship. Mark Walberg plays a man pulled back
into his smuggling past to right the wrongs of his naive brother-in-law
and protect his family.

Mark Walberg is excellent as the lead character. He is strong in the
action scenes on his smuggling trip to Panama , and he is just as good
in dramatic scenes calling his wife to help her back home. He is a
strong protagonist who is likable and draws a lot of empathy as he
tries to fight the bad guys and save his family.

Walberg is supported by a strong cast. Giovannis Ribisi does well as a
dirty, corrupt smuggler who terrorizes his family, Ben Foster is
excellent as Walberg's recovering addict and alcoholic ex-smuggling
parter who struggles to do the right thing. And, Kate Beckinsale is
great as Walberg's wife, who also must fight to protect her family.

The director does a great job of building intensity throughout the
film. He brings the audience into the smuggling trade in a realistic
and believable manner. And, the director effectively engages the
audience in the drama and action at three locations simultaneously as
the film builds to its resolution back in New Orleans.

Overall, the film is a strong action film. If you dismiss the standard
plot and some lapses of reality, you'll enjoy the intense action,
strong acting, and great scenery. Catch Contraband in the theaters to
enjoy it on the big screen.

Just be careful about smuggling your own candy into the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
From the very beginning to the dramatic end, the movie is thrilling.
There is not a scene in the movie which drags the story and every bit
is to a point. His acting is simple, on point and brilliant as usual
and this is one of the best smuggling films i would add to, after
Italian job and various others make to a good list. The fact that it
brings family, friendship, love, hate, betrayal and the usual bad guy
in the film may make it sound all ordinary as most of the films have
almost the same characters these days, but the reason i would ask you
guys to watch this film is because the touch it has unlike most of them
out these days.

I don't think timing is any bit of a problem in this movie and the way
in which the scenes unfold is what i think keep you at the edge of your
seat through the movie. Anywhoo, A must watch! I loved it personally.
<|_=00=_|>
Directing 6/10- Some unique and intriguing shots, but nothing too
rememberable Acting 8.5/10- The acting is the category that without a
doubt, stole the show. Solid efforts from the entire cast but the film
really benefited from tremendous performances from Ribisi and Landry
Jones. Screenplay 4/10- The screenplay is fun no doubt and benefits
from decent pacing and a few intense action sequences but the film
lacks originality, stealing concepts and at times, lines. Visual
effects 5/10- The visual effects were average. I can't completely fault
a film for not using unnecessary visuals. Sound effects/Music 5/10- The
sound effects were fine, nothing misplaced there. The music was again
just OK, sometimes the music was great and mixed well with the action
going on but in some the haunting/emotional scenes the music didn't
make the scene 'better', which is what it should do. Overall, the film
is just another forgettable action film. The film has decent enough
story (though cliché), with great acting and some fun action sequences
that make the film at least worth a viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen the trailer, you can already tell that Contraband really
doesn't have anything new to offer as a film. It has a typical
heist/revenge thriller plot with some thrills and good action
sequences. However, Contraband manages to be a slightly better than
your typical thriller.

Mark Wahlberg gives a really good performance and Giovanni Ribisi did a
really great job as the films over-the-top villain. The film does a
great job of getting down the gritty tone and gives the film a
realistic feel to it. I also enjoyed how instead of being a straight
out action flick, the film actually took time to develop what they had
with the plot and show the whole set up of the heist.

For most of it's nearly 2 hour runtime, Contraband kept me entertained
for the most part. It still suffers from it's expected flaws. The plot
isn't exactly strong and is pretty convoluted and very predictable. I
also didn't care for the way the film wrapped up.

Overall, there really isn't a whole lot about to say about Contraband,
but I would highly recommend it to someone who is looking for a good
rental. If you like Marky Mark, than it's worth a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Contraband is an exciting thriller full of suspense with a slight bit
of comedy. Mark Wahlberg is always a fan favorite with his sarcasm and
flattering physique. The movie takes place in New Orleans near the
shipping yards where all the material is received to sell on the black
market. Chris Farraday (Wahlberg) is a retired smuggler turned family
man who now owns his own business selling alarm systems. Farraday is
forced back into the contraband game when his brother-in-law, Andy
(Caleb Landry Jones), owes his boss, Tom Briggs, a large sum of money
due to the drug deal he failed to deliver. Everything does not go
according to plan when Farraday goes to Panama with his team of
smugglers to repay Andy's debt. The film is listed as an action movie
but the action doesn't really start till half way through. The
background of the story is delivered in a timely manner letting us know
what will happen in the movie. Once the movie finally reaches the
action in Panama the audience is at the edge of their seats. The ending
reveals an unexpected twist that I thoroughly enjoyed. Overall it is
another great movie with Wahlberg that I would recommend to friends.
<|_=00=_|>
It speaks poorly of today's moviegoers that anyone would rate this
turkey higher than 3. The continuity, photography, lighting, and
direction are atrocious. The story makes no sense; and the screen is
too dark to see much of anything 20% of the time.

I like Mark Walberg, and I just love Kate Beckensale; but I challenge
anyone to tell us what she was wearing in ANY of her many scenes. The
photography was so bad, and the choppy camera-hop was like an ADD kid
was running things.

This one played and died quickly in theaters, so we caught it on DVD.
It cost us $1.60 for the rental' 80 cents each. This movie is not worth
80 cents.
<|_=00=_|>
In New Orleans, the former smuggler Chris Faraday (Mark Wahlberg) has
regenerated and raised a family of his own with his wife Kate (Kate
Beckinsale) and their two children. Chris works in installation of
alarms and his father in locked in prison for smuggling.

When his brother-in-law Andy (Caleb Landry Jones) dumps in the sea
water 10 pounds of cocaine that he is smuggling for the drug lord Tim
Briggs (Giovanni Ribisi) to escape from the custom officers, Chris is
forced to pay Andy's debts to protect the youngster and his own family.
Chris leaves his wife and children under the protection of his best
friend Sebastian Abney (Ben Foster) and travels in a Container Carrier
to Panama to bring counterfeit bills and raise the money to pay Briggs.
But Briggs and his partner want to force Chris to smuggle drugs and
will use his family to reach their objective. Meanwhile Chris is
betrayed and gets in trouble in Panama.

"Contraband" is a great action film with an engaging story that
combines action, thriller and drama. The cast is excellent with Mark
Wahlberg in the lead role and Giovanni Ribisi is almost unrecognizable
in the role of a cruel drug dealer. The plot has many twists with
betrayals and the cinematography in New Orleans and Panama is
wonderful. The ironic conclusion is a sort of contemporary "The Sting".
My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Contrabando" ("Contraband")
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the reviewers, this action packed adventure thrilled and
entertained the entire audience. Even got spotty applause which is a
rarity except for the most exceptional films.

Great camera work gave exciting glimpses of the Panama Canal, the Canal
Zone and the port of New Orleans.

Contraband is a perfect portrayal of the gritty life of crime, and the
amoral people who live it. Several exciting twists and turns make the
ending a surprise not even my genius plot detective wife could figure
out beforehand.

Mark Wahlberg continues to give us one realistic performance after
another. Leave the kids at home and go see this action packed thriller.
