
I enjoyed the movie so much, that I came onto IMDb and registered
myself just so that I can post a review. 

The movie was packed with jaw dropping, eye popping action from
beginning to end. The drama had a mix of sadness, comedy and
seriousness which were all mixed in together so beautifully to give a
consistency to keep the viewer starring at the screen and being
involved in the movie rather than daydreaming about other things. 

In my honest opinion I would say that it is the best Fast & Furious
movie to date. 

I want to go see it again!

(by the way, I realise that this isn't the best review in the world or
might even be an awful review, the point is that I enjoyed the movie
thoroughly and felt I should contribute to it's high average ratings).
<|_=00=_|>
Well, color me surprised. The Fast and The Furious has not been a
series known for it's intelligence. Indeed, it's always been big, loud,
and dumb. The original hit the right notes at the time of its release,
appealing to many as a street racing film where few films has treaded
before it. However, it's lackluster sequels failed to deliver. With the
adrenaline rush of the original over and poor writing and acting all
around, the sequels were nothing more than a series of poor imitations
that could never recapture the thrills of the first film. So, it's with
some surprise that Fast Five is arguably the best film in the series.

Fast Five ditches the street racing that made it's name in favor for
being a heist film. In this particular case, we pick up right from
where we left off, with Dom being busted out of his prison bus. They
then flee to Rio where they take on a heist that goes haywire and
eventually leads to the penultimate heist of the film. In the meantime,
ruthless Agent Hobbs, who specializes in tracking and capturing people,
arrives to catch out trio of outlaws. The film does a good job of not
wasting any time and most of the serious moments are kept to a minimum
in favor of heist scenes or action. And in the action department, the
film delivers tenfold. Far bigger, louder, and more exciting than any
F&F film before it, action junkies should find themselves thrilled by
the impressive set pieces and testosterone-laced mix of car and foot
action.

Now, don't get me wrong, this is still a F&F film. This means that the
script is still pretty laughable and the acting leaves much to be
desired. However, with that said, it's still a bit improved here. Vin
Diesel still can't play up emotion very well, making his attempts at
the more serious scenes here a bit laughable. Paul Walker doesn't fair
much better and, unfortunately, even as a main character takes a back
seat to Vin Diesel and Dwayne Johnson. As action stars though, these
three do a great job. In particular, the eventual confrontation between
Diesel and Johnson is fantastic, with it being a brutal, WWE-esque
rumble. The climactic scene alone is worth the price of admission.
Though laughable, it's still an exciting, eye-popping scene that will
leave you a little stupefied. 

Certainly, you have to suspend much of your disbelief with your film.
If you can't do that, you'll just find this entire film laughable and
of poor entertainment value. For those who can though, this is a very
entertaining film. And for fans, you'll certainly enjoy the film, with
a well rounded cast from throughout the entire series coming together
to pull off the impossible. It's definitely surprising to see that the
fifth film in the series is the best, but I suppose that it's merely
the evolution of F&F. With enough money, talent, and by pulling out all
the stops, the franchise has finally capitalized on the over-the-top
aspects that they had always seemed to go for. Suffice to say, action
fans with enough suspension of disbelief will enjoy this immensely.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a personal fan of the F&F series ever since the very first
title was released. Once I saw that Fast Five was in production I
immediately began hunting down a pass for its first showing, I was
successful. Fast Five is everything we all love about the franchise,
fast cars, beautiful women, and of course some nail biting action
scenes.

Whether you're a long time fan of the movies, or a brand new viewer,
this movie is a must see, you're guaranteed to get your moneys worth on
this title.

Best movie I have seen in a long time, it even managed to remove the
bad taste that was left in my mouth by Tokyo Drift. 

This is going to be one of the biggest movies of the year, see it, or
be left behind.

Rating- 10/10 -Average Joe
<|_=00=_|>
After varying degrees of success with the franchise, My faith that
"Fast 5" could deliver on the hype was waning somewhat. However I am
pleased to say the series has redeemed itself. Fast 5 pulls out all the
stops this time around. It delivers on action, cars, quality acting and
a decent storyline. It explores the character personalities showing
more humor, fear, vulnerability and determination this time around
which gives the movie strength and depth that was missing from previous
Fast n Furious movies. 

I found myself laughing out loud a few times at the subtle humor, and
leaning forward for the action scenes which are truly amazing.

The Story is not predictable and will keep the surprises coming to the
end. The Cast has matured and it shows in the quality of acting over
previous F'n'F movies.

Pros:

Good pace throughout the movie

Decent storyline and plot

Good Cast of actors/ actresses

Imaginative and inventive elements throughout

Plenty of "Wow" moments

Cons: 

Would be nice to have more screen time for the cars

a couple of cheesy moments ( but this adds to the humor of the film)

Overall: Highly recommended film, Just be sure to stay until the end of
the credits!

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The weather is finally better, people are taking their clothes off all
over the place and even though it is still spring time, summer movies
are now officially kicking off and ladies and gentleman, we start this
summer right with Fast Five. The Fast and Furious franchise is
something of an acquired taste, a sort of guilty pleasure that hasn't
really been shown the respect it has earned. It isn't known for any of
the terms critics love to use when they complain about a movie, like
intellectual dialogue, solid characterization or even anything remotely
close to a thought provoking plot. No, what it excels in is another
term that critics seem to have forgotten about. Popcorn, no that
overpriced buttery stuff you get from a concession stand, I'm talking
popcorn films! Energetic movies meant to entertain, a good solid waste
of time! So what makes a good popcorn film? Well if this question is
asked to the future filmmakers of tomorrow one need only to watch Fast
Five to see a fine example of how to get it right. Director Justin Lin
(who also directed the fast and the furious) makes a huge leap in
directorial prowess by showing an incredible eye for action that every
other director today should take note at. The man can film ACTION, and
you know..In an action moviethat's kind of what you want and with that
eye brings together an expendables version of the fast and furious
franchise starring everyone's favorite fast and furious stars. Dominic
Toretto (played by Vin Diesel) and his crew find themselves on the
wrong side of the law once again as they try to deal with a drug lord
and a federal agent that's hot on their trail. So , umback to talking
about the action. It is INNNNcredible. Oh man this is my kind of
action, I seriously have not seen this kind of solid , non computer
generated action in a very very long time and Justin Lins camera work
is top notch. Every shot is deliberate and clean. Ohso good. Aside
from the action the other thing that makes this film work is the stars.
Everyone from The Rock to Ludicrous play their characters great and
have their own moments to shine. While the movie does slow down in the
middle to what looks like Ocean's Eleven meets Fast and Furious, the
stars are what keep this movie was falling apart. The movie at times
felt like a parody of action films, filled with cheesy cliché's that
are sometimes so subtle you'll miss it but Linn will toss another scene
in there in case you did and often in hilarious ways . The rock is just
so great, it's these roles he should be taking, not the flying fairy
kind, he's so great in this film I would love to see a spin off with
this very character of his, this cocky nonsense guy who just knows
everything, and he really does know everything. Frankly, that's the
only two things that this movie has going for it. Action and pretty
people and in a popcorn film, that's all you need. So this one is easy
folks, for those with their noses in the air looking for only citizen
Kane caliber films to entertain them, you should know better, you know
a fast and furious movie isn't for you. It's a vapid film that would
have been unwatchable had it not been for its action and star power.
But it pulls off being entertaining. So if you're looking for
adrenaline pumping action , seat rumbling roars of the hottest cars ,
beautiful people looking beautiful even when being shot at then you got
yourself the definition of a popcorn film, meant to entertain you in
every single way and this is popcorn done right.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as franchise films go, The Fast and Furious series seem to be
hitting the ground at top gear, with this installment not showing signs
of slowing down, but prepping a new direction for future films to take,
shifting gears from a film showcasing hot bodies (not solely just car
chassis) and fast nox-enabled cars into the classic heist genre, given
that it had that as its underlying premise from the first film, and now
with a growing ensemble, are ready to give Ocean's Eleven a run for its
money.

Rio De Janeiro provides the backdrop in which this installment takes
place in (quite a popular location for films recently too), with the
chief villain being Reyes (Joaquim de Almedia), a mobster with a
businessman front, with his tentacles of vice and influence extending
toward every part of the city. Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel), Brian
O'Conner (Paul Walker) and the former's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster)
hide out in the city as fugitives having broken Dom en route to prison
at the end of Fast and Furious, and with the kind of money available
for the taking to start a family of their own with Mia found to be
pregnant, they decide to assemble a team, not to pass up the
opportunity of robbing Reyes blind.

So in comes a whole host of characters whom we have seen in past films,
such as Roman (Tyrese Gibson), Tej (Ludacris), Gisele (Gal Gadot), and
even Han (Sung Kang) whom we know what happened to in Tokyo Drift,
hence putting the chronology of the films at 1, 2, 4, 5 and 3, which is
now sometime in the not so immediate future. Director Justin Lin takes
on his 3rd film of the franchise and together with writer Chris Morgan
have managed to introduce new elements to surprise audiences and fans
up until this installment, keeping with the usual action laden
elements, while bringing on new characters into the franchise, this
time with Dwayne Johnson coming in as a no nonsense, dogged and
persistent FBI operative Hobbs, with an arsenal of technology and
attitude to aid him and his team in tracking down Dom and his crew.

And of course who cannot wait to see two tough guys in Vin Diesel and
Dwayne Johnson go one on one with each other in a fisticuffs,
especially since their time with family friendly films have taken a
backseat to put them both firmly back into the action genre. It sets up
new rivalry, while keeping the old between Dominic and Brian with the
latter always keen to prove who's the better driver. And like most
ensemble films, it's make or break given the character's appeal, and
I'm glad to note they share this incredibly chemistry this bunch of
highly skilled cons who each bring their know-how to the table in
trying to pull off mission frickin' insanity, and everyone possessing a
mean driver's license to power souped up vehicles.

And if it's action you're seeking, it's action you'll get in this film
too, putting aside the rather rote and superficial theme of family and
trust. There's no lack of races and wheels on the roads although I do
note that there's not too much of signature cars to go around this
time. Even a would be street race was unceremoniously cut off, although
we do get it compensated with a four way race down two traffic lights
amongst Roman, Dom, Brian and Han which was more of a fair competition
since they were all essentially driving the same model. Then there's
the big bang finale that you would have seen in the trailer, with Dom
and Brian yanking a bank vault and travelling down the streets of Rio
at top speed, in what would be a fittingly noisy last act destroying
everything, and I mean everything, along their path, that has to be
seen in a cinema to enjoy this guilt trip in sense surround glory. 

Needless to say I am a fan of the franchise, and am excited about the
direction this film would be going even if it would mean limiting the
number of cars on the roads, since the film had already shown the
potential of that chemistry between the cast and characters, and I'm
eagerly anticipating more. From one fanboy and an action junkie to any
other, this of course would be recommended fare. 

Stay tuned while the end credits roll, and you'll be treated to a
stinger that reaffirms and teases what's to come in the next film, with
no less than two surprise appearances. But no, with the timeline, it'll
take a while before Lucas Black will be able to link up with the guys.
For an adrenalin pumping high octane entertaining film outing, Fast
Five is that opener to a very noisy and crowded summer season to come.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the film that single-handedly got me to give the rest of the
series a shot, for better or worse. It's a nice change of pace from the
previous films where it abandons the street race angle (how far could
you have taken that anyway?) and goes into the direction of a heist
action flick with cars. Dwayne Johnson is a great addition and really
adds to the series embracing the goofiness of its premise. So yeah,
still the best this franchise had, and that's kind of rare for a
franchise on its fifth film. The action for the most part is really
handled well and a lot of fun to watch. The cast as an ensemble are
very charismatic which no doubt makes it more fun for audiences to see
a cast that has so much diversity and it's not done with generic
stereotypes but just a bunch of people with a common interest. Overall
a very entertaining action flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Without a shadow of a doubt, The Fast And Furious Franchise reaches
it's peak in this installment with breathtaking action and a sense of
friendship and brotherhood shared by the lead characters. Vin Diesel
and Paul Walker return and are joined by newcomer Dwayne Johnsson for
the 5th Fast and Furious Movie, entitled ''Fast Five''. There's not
much to say about this, the action movie of the year, except it's
fantastic shots of Brazil, the heist plot that brings even more
excitem«ent to the table and overall the continuation of the story of
these characters we have come to love and support, as their bond
streghtens over time.

In Conclusion, if you love the franchise then you can't miss it

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I had quite high expectations about this movie. And they paid of even
more that I thought.

I thought that getting all awesome guys from previous movies was great
idea. Like Han from "Tokyo Drift" alone made this movie much, much
better for me just with his appearance. I also very enjoyed Roman's
appearance as I really liked him in "2 Fast 2 Furious" (much peoples
say it's lame, but I think it was a great entertainment)and he was
pretty cool in here too, tough a lil bit too negative. I didn't really
remember Gisele and these two Dominicans Tego and Rico. But I guess,
they were from "Fast & Furious". I have seen it only once, so I don't
really remember any second plan characters. These guys however were
great too. I loved these two Dominicans arguing. Now finally about the
movie. Well I loved it from first minutes till last seconds. It was
full of tense action. Much more than in previous parts. What I didn't
like was, that there were no street races in this one. I guess that bit
where Han, Dom, Brian and Rom were racing betting 1 million each, can't
actually be counted. I also didn't like Vince's appearance. I disliked
him at first movie and don't think he was necessary at this one.
Dwayne's Johnson's appearance was great too, because I very like some
of his movies (Scorpion king, Welcome to the jungle). 

The plot. I liked it. It weren't too advanced and some people might
call it unrealistic and lame, but, come on, it's an action movie! 

In summary I can say, this movie was one of greatest F&F franchise
movies, if not the greatest. I hope to see whole gang together also for
the next, because mostly that made this movie so awesome. 9/10
