
- Kirk Honeycutt, film critic for the Hollywood Reporter and host of
the UCLA film course where we previewed this movie immediately compared
it to Vittorio De Sicas's 1948 classic film The Bicycle Thief . In it a
man and his son search for a stolen bicycle vital for his job. Fast
forward to the present time as Carlos, an undocumented immigrant,
(played by Mexican super star Demian Bichir) and his teenage son
(played by Jose Lulian, an American making his acting debut ) are on a
similar quest. They are searching for Carlos' stolen truck which he
bought with borrowed funds to give him his one chance to make a decent
living as a gardener and pay off his debts. Where the original Italian
movie painted a picture of the poverty in post war Italy, this film
provides an insight into life in East Los Angeles with its poverty,
gangs, immigrants desperate for work and living with constant fear of
being deported. It captures the poignancy and the dilemmas of hard
working immigrant families in cities like Los Angeles who are trying to
survive and provide a better life for their children while one step
away from being arrested and sent home. The screenplay by Eric Eason is
short on words but crystal clear in the emotional impact which it
provides not only with the stark reality of the situation that the
father and son are faced with but in the emotional struggle that each
of them must feel. Bichir's performance could not be better as his face
tells his story as does his words in both English and Spanish (with
appropriate subtitles). Veteran director Chris Weitz teamed with award
winning Spanish cinema photographer Javier Aguirresarobe to put
together a realistic vision of the characters and environment which was
filmed in 69 different locations in Los Angeles. Despite the
effectiveness of the film, there are no clear villains and no new calls
for action. While there may be a morsel of hope there is also the
depressing possibility of a never ending line of people with crushed
dreams. The film, itself, is an amazingly powerful and authentic
glimpse into the human story that is part of the "intractable
immigration issue." The emotional pull precludes over
intellectualizing. (2011)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was beautifully done. It gave me a completely different
perspective on the plight of the illegal alien. 

The bond between the father and the son were wonderfully portrayed in
this movie. Anyone that has kids will be able to relate - the father
just wants more for his son. 

The plight of the Mexican is a bit of a lose - lose situation, as this
film demonstrates. There is nothing for them in their own country;
America is their only hope. Anyone would do the same thing as the lead
character in this film - take the dangerous risk of immigrating to
America - by whatever means necessary.
<|_=00=_|>
the film "A Better Life" is one of the best films I seen this year and
one of the favorites of all time. The film "A Better Life" is such a
touching film and it will touch you if you have had a hard time just
make it day to day in life. This film is about people who work hard
everyday and at the end of the day they can never get ahead.This film
will teach others who take their life's for granted, not to take their
life's for grant because there are people in this world that want the
simple things in life like parents that just want to spend time with
their kids and they cannot because they have to work or do other
thing.The film "A Better Life is about the people and for the people. I
highly recommend this movie to others.
<|_=00=_|>
I like how Chris Weitz kept the focus on the characters and avoided the
usual politics of the subject matter. This movie kept the audience
riveted to the screen without resorting to usual polemics found in
similar subject films. Personally I think this movie is closer to "El
Norte" than "The Bicycle Thief", maybe a mix of the two but still
authentic. Superb performances by most of the cast including Demian
Bichir as Carlos Galindo, newcomer Jose Julian as Luis Galindo, Joaquin
Cosio as Blasco, Bobby Soto as Luis' friend. Richard Cabral, Jason
Medwin and Tom Schanleys played very believable, three dimension roles.
Eric Eason and Chris Weitz did a great job on balancing keeping it real
and entertaining at the same time. Carlos, a Mexican gardener in the
United States illegally doing all he can trying to single handed raise
a son in a vulnerable age at a vulnerable time. If you are looking for
a warm and heart felt movie without the overblown melodramas then this
is a most see.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Better Life" was a really good movie. It reminded my another good
movie about similar life "The Visitor". This is a really inspiring and
touching movie about single fathers "journey" to make a better life for
his son (or as they say, to find American dream). The way is hard, and
sure not everyone can go through it. It's really rare in these days to
see such a simple story on a big screen, not overdone in special
effects and stuff like that.

If you like simple and quiet but powerful stories, "Better Life" is one
not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
the story in short is that of an illegal immigrant named Carlos
Galindo, played by Demian Bichir who is trying to make a living for him
and his son, played by Jose Julian in the tough streets of Los Angeles.

Desperate to have a better life, Carlos decides to take a debt, a loan
to buy a truck to make a better business, but without having the legal
papers and driver's license, he is caught in a dilemma between making a
decent living and avoiding deportation.

to avoid spoiling any more of the plot, i will stop here.

the movie was very good, definitely enjoyable. the story is very
touching and engaging. i never felt bored. the plot moved in a very
steady pace.

the characters were interesting, and the acting was pretty good, Bichir
actually delivered a solid performance. i really felt connected to the
characters.

the best thing about the movie, is the story as it was a window to the
lives of the poor, their struggling and motivation for a better life.
it was certainly an eye opener of the blessings that most of us have.

It is a surprise to me how a very good movie like this don't get a wide
theatrical release. but anyways, if it is playing near you, i highly
recommend this.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite simply put this is an absolutely amazing film. 

Demian Bichir is top class and fully deserves his Oscar nomination and
probably deserves it more than most of the other nominees's. People are
saying its a shock nomination however if you have seen the film you
will understand completely why he got it. 

Truly beautiful and am not afraid to say it made me cry. i know this is
a massive topic in the United States however absolutely anybody can and
will connect with this film. its not just a tail about illegal
immigrants its an incredibly powerful father and son tale.

I will be tuning in to the academy awards this Sunday hoping he can win
it!

If anything just give the film a watch you wont be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I went to see this film. I lived in Whittier for 25
years - So. CA. since the 50's and went to L.A. many times and had
friends who lived difficult lives such as this. We thought the movie
was wonderful and very "real"! I loved how Dad and son related.

I'm a pretty simple person and like to watch nice movies - I am
definitely going to watch this movie again!! 

The only thing I would change is to make sure I bring a box of Kleenex!
I was so moved and hurt I couldn't leave the theater for at least 5
minutes!

Go see this movie - especially if you like true to life movies - it's
inspiring & loving.

God bless everyone who experiences life this way. This movie inspired
me to start praying for all who are in situations like these ones!
<|_=00=_|>
Demián Bichir is simply brilliant in this film as the father trying to
raise a son in gangland California. Admittadly most critics haven't
even seen this film but Demián Bichir deserves an Oscar nod for his
excellent role in this heartwarming film. I don't care how overlooked
this film was by the masses, it is an excellent film, an award winning
film, the stuff that will survive the centuries. The fact that the
critics ignored it is only proof of how lame the critics are, not at
all a statement about the quality of this movie. Best Actor Nod, all
the way.

I can not say it enough, Oscar Material
<|_=00=_|>
Carlos Galindo is a man that crossed the border to the United States
seeking a better life for Jose, his teenager son, and himself. Carlos
works for Blasco, also an undocumented Mexican, who wants to retire
from gardening. When Carlos is offered the truck, a necessary tool for
his type of job, he sees the opportunity to improve his life. After
all, working for himself, he figures will be better than working for a
salary. Carlos jumps at the opportunity.

Jose, the son, is not having an easy time. As a young man in the gang
infested neighborhoods of Los Angeles, he is constantly taunted by his
peers, trying to get him to join the gang. His sweetheart's family is
involved with the tough guys of the 'hood. All Jose would like to do is
to play soccer.

The only hope for Carlos is to borrow the money from his sister. She,
in turn, has been hiding the money for other things, but she sees in
Carlos' ambition a ray of hope that he will succeed in getting ahead.
After the truck is secured, Carlos figures he and Jose will soon begin
to see the benefits of his hard work.

Unfortunately, fate intervenes in Carlos' dreams; his truck is stolen.
Carlos cannot go to the police because his own immigration status. How
can he tell the authorities he has devoted his life to hard work and
trying to give Jose what he did not have? Trying to find the thief,
proves to be his own downfall because the system works against Carlos.

"A Better Life" is a well felt film that brought to mind Vittorio De
Sica's masterpiece "Bicycle Thief" that deals on a similar subject, in
a different way. Directed by Chris Weitz, and based on a screenplay by
Eric Eason, it is based on a story by Roger Simon. The director
achieves a coup by casting the great Demian Bichir in the role of
Carlos. "A Better Life" is a character study of a poor man trying to
make a life for his son and himself in a country that is not his own.
In a way, Carlos is pursuing the American dream, but as a poor,
uneducated man, he has almost no opportunities to succeed except by
working the jobs no one wants to do. His dream suddenly turns into a
nightmare when the vehicle he needs for work is taken away from him. 

Demian Bichir is the basic reason for watching the film. He makes quite
an impression as the Mexican immigrant. Jose Julian, who plays Jose, is
not in the same league as Mr. Bichir, but he does what he can with his
character.
