
I just saw this movie today. I cannot understand why it was rated so
poorly and it just shows that I am glad I don't listen to the critics.
There are so many that don't like it because they compare it to past
movies that are somewhat similar. I have seen very few movies like this
especially ones that are based on country so I came in very unbiased.
Just take the movie for what it is...on it's own...for a great script
and story! The acting was sensational. The singing which was done by
the actors themselves was fabulously passionate and real. Gwyneth,
Garrett, and especially Leighton...WOW! The story line??? Big deal if
it is "similar" to others. This movie seemed so very real to what it
could actually be like. Gwyneth's acceptance to "be" the character she
has to be was remarkable. She had humor...terrific talent and as a
woman/wife who's husband had forgotten how to be a husband and partner
(no offense Tim...you were great too)...she was passionate and playful
yet sad and lost. Once again she showed how wonderful and talented an
actress she really is.

Garrett and Leighton played their roles very professionally...very real
and we need to see more of them.

I love this movie. It had a profound affect on me being a musician and
someone who had felt the "loss of hope" the exact same way Kelly did in
this movie.

If the critics hadn't beaten it up so much...this movie would have
rocked at the box office! Top marks to all involved. Thank you for
doing this!
<|_=00=_|>
"Country Strong", a surprisingly good film (even if you live in 
California and don't happen to like country music). Starring Gwyneth 
Paltrow (Iron Man), Tim McGraw (The Blind Side), Garrett Hedlund (TRON: 
Legacy) and Leighton Meester (Gossip Girl), "Country Strong" succeeds 
in doing exactly what it sets out to do; that is make a dramatic film 
about country music that is also entertaining. I know a lot of critics 
will not agree with me, but in the midst of the awards season this is 
the one film, not nominated for a big time award, that is worth 
spending your money on.

Side Note: Oh, and if you're only reading this review to find out if 
Gwyneth Paltrow can sing, the answer is yes she can. But if you had 
seen "Duets", then you already knew that she could.

Synopsis: A story that follows fallen country music superstar Kelly 
Canter (Paltrow) as she is released from rehab and attempts a comeback 
concert. There is also another, and all around better, storyline that 
follows the rise of two up and coming country music artists Beau Hutton 
and Chiles Stanton (Hedlund and Meester), as they try to find out what 
path to take through the harsh and unforgiving world of the country 
music industry.

Yes, "Country Strong" may seem a bit to predictable for some and yes, 
it does lag a bit in the middle of the film (mostly pertaining to 
Paltrow's scenes), but it does redeem itself with a vengeance in the 
final 30 minutes of the film. The storyline is really well thought out, 
the character development here is potent and the acting (including the 
singing), for the most part, is excellent.

Unequivocally the one actor to take note of in this film is Hedlund, 
who steals the show with his performance of a country boy/country music 
purist. His chemistry on screen with just about everyone including the 
microphone is so authentic, that whenever he is on-screen he literally 
makes the movie better. Any and all issues I have with this film 
surprisingly fall directly on the performance of Paltrow. She plays an 
aging alcoholic Country superstar with as much heart as she can muster, 
but overall she is sadly uninteresting to watch for most of the film.

Final Thought: "Country Strong" is currently getting raked through the 
mud by critics for its simplistic storyline, but let me tell you this: 
anyone (and I mean anyone) who is a fan of Country music will 
undoubtedly love this film. And even if the Country twang is not your 
bang, this is a strong enough drama to keep you in your seat. This is 
no "Crazy Heart" (so no nominations to be found here), but "Country 
Strong" is still entertaining enough for me to strongly recommend.


<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. It wasn't what I expected at all, but I really
enjoyed it and did tear up a couple of times. I have to say I am very
surprised by the harsh reviews by critics and some of the users on
here!

The movie is a bit too long at almost 2 hours. I think a couple of the
acting scenes were repetitive, but I am glad they did not cut any of
the music they had. There is a LOT of music but the actors all pull it
off quite well, with some of the songs actually being recognizable as
real country songs if you are familiar with the genre.

I must admit I am a huge country music fan and I like all country, not
just the newer pop stuff. So take my review knowing that. However, I
did take 3 people with me to the advance screening and 2 of them listen
to NO country music. All 4 of us thought the movie was great. Three of
us cried.

I think the previews are marketing the movie all wrong. It looks like
it will be an uplifting film that shows us the bad stuff in the
beginning, then maybe a bump or two, then everybody winds up happy and
"Country Strong." This is not the case at all.

It is a sad look at addiction but I think more realistic than someone
coming out of rehab and everything being sunshine and lollipops. The
characters are all flawed, with perhaps Beau being the only one who
comes out in a mostly positive light, but even he has his issues and is
far from perfect.

It also looks like Gwyneth is the only lead in the previews, but all 4
major characters have quite a large amount of time on screen and I
think Beau has the same (or maybe even more) screen time as Gwyneth. I
had never heard of this actor (had no clue he has the lead in TRON) and
I came home to look him up immediately because I thought surely he was
a real up and coming country singer.

Gwyneth's voice is really good, and if Garrett or Leighton ever made a
country album, I would buy it. Tim doesn't sing in the movie but has a
song on the soundtrack, but that was the way he wanted it and I respect
him for that. This was the first movie of Tim's where I did forget at
least a couple of times that I was looking at "THE" Tim McGraw. He was
fine in Blindside, but it was a small role.

If you have a passionate hatred for country, I do not think you will
enjoy the movie because there is a lot of singing in it. However, you
do not need to love country as I do to enjoy it. If you can so much as
tolerate it or accept the singers as being talented, I think you'll be
fine.

I plan to buy the soundtrack, but wish it had more from Garrett and
Leighton because they each sang a lot more than 1 song in the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
As a relatively new fan of country music, I must say I was disappointed
in this movie. It had its moments, but overall I cannot recommend it.
The clumsy, disconnected screenplay was probably the worst aspect of
the film as it gave the actors little to work with. There didn't seem
to be much continuity to the film, but just a bunch of scenes thrown
together. Aside from her singing the title song, there was nothing
about the main character (played by Gwyneth Paltrow) that was remotely
strong, and the ending was hardly inspiring in that regard. I cringed
through the first half of the movie, which seemed to go overboard in
portraying her flaws and failures, and wondered how much lower she
would get before she turned things around. It was quite depressing,
with no "payoff" at the end to make it worthwhile.

What the movie does have is some pretty good music. Paltrow, Garrett
Hedlund, and Leighton Meester all sang quite well and almost made this
movie worth seeing. Hedlund gave the best acting performance, and
Meester wasn't bad. But I was quite disappointed in Tim McGraw's effort
and feel it was the weakest of his budding career. I don't know if it
was because he was playing an insensitive jerk as opposed to the nice
guys of his previous roles, but he seemed strained and unnatural. And
as well as Paltrow sang, and as much as I have enjoyed previous work by
her, she was unconvincing in her portrayal of a country superstar
(limited in part by the poor script, as noted earlier). The charisma
just wasn't there.

Seeing a movie like this makes me appreciate well-written and
well-acted movies all the more. They have a unifying theme that takes
you somewhere and ties things together at the end (unless, of course,
there is to be a sequel). "Country Strong" just didn't have what it
takes, but ending up looking more like a direct-to-video film. It
should have been titled "Country Pathetic."
<|_=00=_|>
I am honestly starting to not even bother looking at IMDb before I rent
or go see a movie because they always seem to be way to harsh or not
even at all close. My wife and I just watched Country Strong with Tim
Mcgraw, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Gerrett Hedlund and we both thought the
movie was awesome!!! Very very good acting and Garrett Hedlund should
def think about a music career or at least put out an album, because
that guy has a very unique voice, and he is awesome!

The movie shows the trials and tribulations in the star world and what
i can do to someone and I thought it was just a very good movie. I
would highly recommend watching this.
<|_=00=_|>
What do I know about country music? I own a few Johnny Cash albums. I
never jumped on the Billy Ray Cyrus bandwagon. I never tried to impress
a girl by pretending Carrie Underwood or Taylor Swift is my type of
music, and I can honestly say I have never participated in a line
dance. So, what was I doing at a screening of "Country Strong?" Maybe
it was because I knew that this genre of music has millions of fans
worldwide and a long history going back several decades. With that
extensive history, the music and the performers have a chivalrous
quality. 

The film begins with Beau Hutton (played by Garrett Hedlund) and Kelly
Canter (played by Gwyneth Paltrow) both in an alcohol rehab facility.
Kelly was once a six-time Grammy winner in this fictional country
world. It is implied that something awful happened in Dallas due to her
drinking problem and that is why she is in rehab now. "Dallas" soon
becomes code for "rock bottom" throughout the story. Beau works at the
rehab facility as Kelly's sponsor (a sponsor who drinks, but her
sponsor none the less) and is also a country music singer. 

Kelly's husband/ manager (who is about 20 percent husband and 80
percent manager) James Canter (played by Tim McGraw) comes to pick up
Kelly from rehab. Instantly there is tension between James and Beau.
McGraw does a great job of playing the reserved yet highly focused and
determined manager of Kelly's career. James pulls Kelly out of rehab
early to reboot her career. It was never stated that he was doing this
for money. The underlying issues of James have something to do more
with money than with fame. 

James recruits a young beauty queen, Chiles Stanton (played by Leighton
Meester) to open for Kelly's comeback tour. Again there is tension
between James and Beau. Beau doesn't want to open for Kelly; he wants
to stay true to the music by playing in the honky tonk bars and not do
it for the money. How noble. 

Beau also has an instant love/ hate with Chiles and sees right through
her phoniness. Beau and Chiles represent the two sub genres of country
music. Beau wants to have a good time singing country tunes while
Chiles wants the pop stardom and to sing songs that have titles like
rides at Disneyland (that was a joke from the movie). 

Kelly's first show is a disaster. An event from her past (yep, you
guessed it, Dallas) comes back to rattle her and she goes back to
drinking. James graciously forces Kelly onto stage where she has a
breakdown. For much of the film there was a series of relapses for
Kelly followed by fits of her crying followed by instantaneous
sobriety. I hope the studio was paying Paltrow by the tear drop; she
would have made millions off that deal alone. 

The story goes from a love triangle to pretty much a love rectangle
between the four main characters. We move into a series of romances on
the tour between three of the stars. Beau wants Kelly. Kelly wants
Beau, her husband and her booze. Chiles only wants Beau. Then Beau
wants Chiles. James really just wants to be left alone while he works
on his business deals. 

The story finally climaxes to Kelly's big finale in Dallas (yes, the
same "Dallas" as before) where all three of the top stars give great
performances. To add a the dramatic element, before each musician gives
their superb concerts they have one-on-one heart-to-heart talks in the
dressing rooms letting each other know how they feel about each other. 

Should you see this movie? Maybe, if you are a fan of country music you
might appreciate it a little more than I did. If you are a casual
listener, there might not be enough to hold your attention. It did give
a great view of what goes on behind the scenes of the music industry.
The performances and singing by the cast were amazing (McGraw, the only
real country music singer in the film, doesn't sing a single note). The
ending was unique because it was something new to this type of film. It
does end like an old country song.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest. I am NOT a country music fan. Nor am I a fan of country
music movies, westerns, or anything that has cowboy boots in it. That
being said, I just finished watching Country Strong and I have to
readjust my views a bit. I still dislike westerns intensely but I now
have a country music movie to add to my list of favorites. It could be
the very pretty cast of actors, or it could be the engrossing
storyline, or it just might be the music that had me swaying in my
seat, whatever it was, I left the movie as a devoted fan.

This gripping movie is about a country megastar named Kelly Canter,
played by the illustrious Gwyneth Paltrow and her rocky journey through
the world of alcoholism. The movie boasts a well put-together cast,
starring Tim McGraw as Kelly's husband/manager, James, Garrett Hedlund
as her sponsor and opener, Beau Hutton, and Leighton Meester as the up
and coming country singer, Chiles Stanton.

The movie starts out in a rinky-dink dance hall in Nashville,
Tennessee. You can hear the gravelly voice of Beau Hutton telling a
story about wanting to sing like Merle Haggard for his mom's benefit.
She tells him that he sounds good but he's no Merle. Beau then launches
into a Merle-esque song, Chances Are, and it was the first time that a
country song actually made me swoon. Beau is a good ol' boy, wearing
his stained and weathered cowboy hat and driving a rusted-out truck. It
turns out; he is also Kelly Canter's sponsor in rehab.

Kelly's husband checks her out of rehab a month early, against Beau's
better judgment. James believes that getting her "back on the horse,"
and touring again will get her healthy faster than being in a rehab
center. James come across as money-hungry, however, throughout the
movie we learn that he does love his wife and only wants the best for
her. As Kelly's manager, he is in charge of finding new talent to open
for Kelly. He goes to see a former beauty queen with a surprisingly
good voice named Chiles Stanton.

Chiles is an extremely pretty, young girl with an exaggerated Texan
accent. She wears too much make-up and has her hair full and curly. "I
don't know what's bigger, the hair or the dress" is how the stage
manager describes her. She seems very confident when you first meet
her; however, as soon as she gets onstage, she freezes up. She is
rescued valiantly by Beau Hutton, who was the performer before her.
Chiles' fresh-faced look appeals to the audience once her stage fright
is past. With her glittering outfit, high heels, and make-up, she truly
looks like a country Barbie.

After James hears both Beau and Chiles singing, he decides to offer the
opening acts to both of them. He also, reluctantly, wants Beau along to
help him watch over Kelly. James recognizes that Kelly is going to need
a lot of help while on the road. The scene where James asks Beau to
tour with them demonstrates just how palpable the animosity is between
the two men. The acrimony turns out to be precognizant of the situation
because Beau and Kelly are indeed having an affair.

During the tour, we learn of the reason that Kelly is in rehab. Several
months ago, in Dallas, Kelly was drunk onstage, tripped over a cable,
and fell 10 feet off the stage. She was five months pregnant at the
time and lost the baby, as a result of the fall. The guilt she feels
over the incident keeps her drinking until rehab. James tries to love
her in spite of the miscarriage, but you can feel the blame he places
on her. There is a touching scene between James and Kelly where he says
"The first time I heard you sing, I knew. I wasn't much of a church
man, but I thought that must be what angels sound like. I thought I'd
died and gone to heaven." You can sense just how much this couple has
been through in their marriage.

The tour starts and stutters along with Beau and Chiles carrying the
responsibility while Kelly is drinking herself from town to town. The
depression is dragging Kelly down and she makes numerous mistakes. Beau
and Chiles start to have feelings for each other because they are
thrown together in so many scenes. They have a charming scene where
they sing a duet together and just watching them on the big screen, you
can feel the chemistry between them. The relationship between James and
Kelly, however, is disintegrating bit by bit. You can see the strength
and fortitude that Kelly has, even as her marriage and career are
crumbling around her. She gears up to go back to Dallas, on a repeat
tour, even though that was where she lost her baby and embarrassed
herself earlier that year.

In Dallas, Kelly seems a different person. She is driven and confident.
The loyalty of her fans seems to boost her esteem and she does what she
can to stay sober. There is a scene before the concert between Beau and
Chiles, where he informs her that he is leaving the show and heading to
California. He asks Chiles to go with him and she is unable to give him
the answer he wants. The disappointment on his face is touching.

Some critics may say that Country Strong is cheesy, clichéd, and
predictable but I found that not to be true. I felt the desperation of
Kelly's predicament and the doomed love of her marriage. I found the
relationship between Beau and Chiles to be refreshing and romantic. And
most of all, I found the music to be stirring and award-winning. Maybe
it will never win an Oscar, but it's still two thumbs up from me!
<|_=00=_|>
I actually really loved it and I too am glad I watched it despite many
people not liking it enough. I liked Gwyneth and Garrett but Leighton
was just amazing with her singing and her portrayal of the layered
Chiles Stanton. Loved it! I am looking forward to seeing more movies of
Leighton which are coming out this year and I am hoping they will be as
strong. I am actually rather surprised as to why people didn't like
it-...I guess they were comparing to movies made before on country
music with similar story lines but I didn't mind at all! I loved the
banter between Chiles and Beau - was absolutely the best part about the
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Since I'm fond of good country music I thought I'd give this a try,
despite not being very keen on Gwyneth Paltrow. However, in this movie
she gives a storming performance as a famous country singer, gradually
falling apart with depression and alcohol - and she has a great voice!
Yes that really is Gwyneth singing in the film.

The good news doesn't end there because the supporting cast are just as
good, Garret Hedlund and Leighton Meester were fantastic and so good as
country singers that I immediately looked for their albums, but apart
from the Country Strong Soundtrack, there aren't any! These are just
great actors with great voices. Add in a strong performance from Tim
McGraw (Oh why cant you just love your woman? - that's all she
needs!!).

With fine, layered performances from all and a storming soundtrack,
this is definitely unmissable for any country music lover. I'm still
humming the tunes days later.

By the way, be careful if buying the soundtrack album. There are two!
The first has other artists covering many of the film's songs and
though it's a good album, isn't strictly from the soundtrack in every
case. The second album, with the same name, seems to have original
performances from the film, but was out of stock and I have it on back
order. I think this is the more popular one.

Anyway, if, like me, you don't watch films that score less than about 6
on IMDb, make this one an exception. You wont regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a decent movie but not one that I loved. The singing in the
movie is top notch except for 1 or 2 of Paltrow's songs which were just
okay. These are some seriously talented people. Huge surprise that
Leighton Meester is a terrific singer. You might know her from Gossip
Girl.

You probably already know the synopsis -- alcoholic singer goes back on
the road to try and reclaim her past star status pushed along by her
manager/husband. She bonds with a young male singer/guitar player who
she brings along on her mini-tour who, despite the best of intentions,
can't quite pull her out of her addictive cycle. Leighton Meester plays
a very sympathetic and likable character who is just trying to live her
dream...she's brought along on the tour by the husband/manager.

Overall, it was a depressing movie....to see someone battling addiction
and how it eventually wears down the people around them to the point
where they look like they are nasty (poor McGraw) when in reality they
are just tired of the cycle of self-destruction.

What was entertaining and enjoyable about the movie was the songs and
the concert scenes. It was a nice movie to go see on a snowy
night....doubtful that I would rent it once it became available or buy
it on DVD...which is kind of the benchmark for me on what is a good
movie.

You won't waste your money seeing it but you'll probably wish you'd
seen it at a reduced price or at the matinée if you paid full price.
