
I went into this movie confident that it would be a cheesy, campy romp
with the same "tried and true tricks of the trade," like when the hero
is investigating the creepy music coming from the basement and a cat
jumps into frame, but I quickly discovered that this would not be case
with Insidious. After watching the move and obsessing on it for about
12 hours now, I can honestly say it's one of the scariest movies I've
ever seen. In fact, there were several points during the film where I
screamed like a 13-year old girl at a Justin Beiber concert. Keep in
mind I was consciously trying my hardest to keep my composure, mainly
because I was sitting beside my new girlfriend of 2 months. She,
incidentally, didn't make a peep; thankfully, I later found out she had
her eyes closed the whole time. 

I was also expecting to see some blood and guts, especially coming from
the guys who made Saw, but there wasn't a drop. Instead, they used just
about everything else in their arsenal to scare the bejesus out of me
and everyone else in the theater (my girlfriend included). From
literally the opening credits, they created an intense, haunting
tension that didn't leave my body till several whiskeys and half a
Xanax later. And the movie constantly feeds that tension, making even
the characters' mundane family life somehow seem utterly terrifying. I
was actually exhausted leaving the theater from all of the
uncomfortable squirming I was unable to control. I'd say it's the most
calories I've ever burned while watching a movie (well, at least a
PG-13 movie). 

Overall, the movie was great. It was crazy scary, thoroughly
entertaining, and even surprisingly funny at times. Having said that,
it will be quite some time before I watch another horror movie; I have
no desire to be turned into a frazzled bundle of nerves again anytime
soon. So, if you plan on seeing this movie, please consider this a
cautionary reminder: it's probably best to go with someone who's
already witnessed you have a complete physical and mental breakdown, so
as to avoid an embarrassing drive home. And maybe bring a Xanax as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the genre's that Hollywood has to offer, the most tattered of
the bunch is without a doubt the horror department. I am so sick of
these wannabe 'so called' horror flicks that belong on late night
lifetime channel. Im sick of the same old parlor tricks and scare
tactics that have been used for the past 10 years. And i am even more
sickened by the fact that they keep making the same crap year after
year. You would figure after great horror flicks like "The Decent" and
"Paranormal Activity", studios would start realizing what actually
works and what audiences want to see. Hopefully in the coming years,
this genre' will come back to life.

When it comes to horror movies, i think the two most crucial elements
are the cinematography, and the musical score. Actually, i prefer there
to be no music at all. Almost all the great horror movies never use it,
because they rely on scaring the audience with disturbing images, not
raised music that makes everyone jump. If i want that, I'll go to a
haunted house. When i go to see a horror flick, i want it to leave a
lasting impression. However, movies like this are the one exception.

This film had such amazing cinematography, that i didn't even care
about those 'raised music' sequences. I rarely get creeped out at the
theater, and this movie scared the crap out of me. I'm talking' sweaty
palms, eyes wide open, my body sunk all the way down in my chair
scared. And for those of you who have read my reviews in the past, i
hardly ever say that about a horror flick. And what really sold it was
the cinematography. This film is packed with tons of really creepy and
disturbing images. So much in fact, that you will hate walking into
your dark house alone. Yes, they do use the same scare tactics, but
since everything in the movie looked so damn creepy and demented, i for
once didn't want the lead female to hurry up and open the basement door
and get it over with.

The storyline is pretty decent. It's not an amazing concept or
genuinely creepy on it's own. But it does a decent enough of a job to
keep your interest and sell what your seeing unfold on screen. And it's
safe to say that this is a very different take on your typical haunted
house.

Bottom Line......holy crap, i just realized that this movie is only
PG-13. Is it possible for a movie to be scary as hell and only be rated
PG-13? The answer is yes, and this is a prime example of that. You know
when a horror movie has done it's job? It's when it scares you both in
the theater, and hours later when you try to sleep at night. Tonight, i
will have lots of trouble sleeping. I can easily say that this will
probably be the best horror movie of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw a preview for this movie, I knew it looked like it had
potential. It had been a while since I saw a decent scary movie so I
was looking forward to it. I went into it expecting some scares but
nothing too bad. Wrong. This movie scared me out of my wits. I don't
think I have ever jumped more during any other scary movie. The
audience was spooked too. I saw many other people jumping out of their
seats and even heard a few actual screams.

What I loved about this movie was that it actually tries to scare you,
not gross you out. The images are frightening for sure. Insidious
doesn't waste any time trying to creep you out. The scares already
start with the opening credits. I sure was not expecting this to be one
of the scariest movies i've seen but it lives up to that. That being
said, I don't think I'd have the guts to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to an early screening of the movie last night and I'm not
exaggerating when I say that I felt like a little child watching The
Exorcist for the first time. James Wan did a very impressive for only
an $800,000 budget for this movie. If you're going in the theatre
expecting to see the typical, run of the mill, haunted house flick you
will be sadly mistaken and surprisingly pleased at the same time. 

The parts that I liked most about the film is the detailing. Everything
in the movie means something no matter how small and I love that when
the suspense builds up for the audience to be scared, you won't be
disappointed to find its just the dog or the tree brushing against the
window....it will definitely be something to be scared of. The people
sitting beside me kept laughing at me because whenever the suspense
would build I would say to myself "uh uh....uh uh".

But enough of my rambling, the plot was definitely original and James
Wan and Leigh Schanell definitely succeeded in bringing the audience
something scary, suspenseful, funny, emotional, and frightening all at
the same time. The score is amazing. The use of all sound design was
great specially since they weren't any fake screams. LOL. The best
acting performance, hands down, was Lin Shaye. She did an amazing job
with her role. I can't say anymore without spoiling the movie. All I
can say is, if you LOVE a good scary movie then you must see this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The film Insidious has done something many horror movies have failed to
do recently, and that is to be scary. 

Insidious has a lot of really intense moments that scare, and then grab
hold of you. Its not entirely made up of "make you jump" scenes, which
it does have, but scenes with genuine horror. 

Insidious has taken a risk with doing something original, and It works
here for them. Without giving anything away the movie does not just
talk about whats scary, or show the the aftermath of something going on
in a room that you can only hear until its over and the door magically
unlocks. Insidious shows you whats scary, and quite often reminds you
whats there, and waiting in the dark.
<|_=00=_|>
When I went to the theater to see this, I had been excited for awhile.
And boy, did this movie deliver. But it unexpectedly did more. I was
thinking you'd get your exorcism, with everything being all happy and
good in the end, but I honestly was not expecting something that
complex. 

I'll come out and say it: The outline of the movie was not that
original, but what the writers did with the traditional ghost story was
amazing. They twisted it to make it not so much about the ghosts, but
about what was going on to the family in the house. How they were
taking it.

The effects were great for this type of movie, which really only
require a slamming door or a random person standing in. And I also
thought the actors did a great job. I particularly liked Patrick Wilson
playing the father that doesn't want to have any part of the
hokus-pokus ghost stories, but is sort of pulled into it against his
will. 

The best part: It was genuinely scary. There is virtually no gore,
because it's not needed to build the creepiness of the plot. It sort of
builds and is intense right from the get go. I'm a major scary movie
veteran, and I was truly scared (which doesn't happen often). 

I highly recommend this movie to anyone up for a good scare. If you
aren't an experienced scary movie watcher, this is a good starter. And
trust me, you will check all the closets and doors when you get home
from the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came back from watching an advanced screening of " Insidious "
tonight with my wife, we both liked it a lot. When it comes to Horror
films, there are always the same Horror formulas which film makers
really can't escape when making a Horror, because there aren't much
they can work with and they are limited to that same formula. So
Insidous borrows many of its ideas from other Horror films, one comes
to mind is 1982 film " Poltergeist ", but here we have a family of 5,
Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne play the parents of 2 boys and a little
baby girl. after a slow build up, a small accident occur and their
older son falls into comma or so it seems !! soon after, weird things
start to happen at the house and the mother suspects evil spirits are
in the house !! 

A simple story that as i said was done before, however, I thought it
was done differently here, there was a better atmosphere and some
elements of the plot stood out as being fresh that made this film
unique somehow. As scares goes, this was definitely scary, there were
several moments in the film that gave me goosebumps !! there were also
the classic jump out of your seat moments too. Some scenes were creepy
and the mixing of music and sounds were done superbly to add to the
Horror. so the movie does deliver as far as scares are concerned.

Acting was superb too, all cast involved did a very good job,
particularly Rose Byrne whom I'm fond of after watching her in the
excellent TV show " Damages ". Patrick Wilson was also good here.

the atmosphere was creepy, the director managed to catch nice footage
of the house and other elements of the film. 

So in summary, get ready and grab your loved ones and go catch this
movie this Friday, it entertains. very enjoyable and scary, and even
though it borrows ideas from other Horror films, it never imitates, it
stand out as a new and fresh take on traditional Horror !!
<|_=00=_|>
After reading many of the reviews listed here and Entertainment
Weekly's quote, "Insidious has some of the most shivery and indelible
images I've seen in any horror film in decades," and WCBS Radio's,
"Most terrifying film since The Exorcist," there was no way I could
miss this film.

To compare this sham of a film with a classic like The Exorcist is an
insult to real horror film fans everywhere and apparently EW hasn't
been to a horror film in decades. As far as all the other reviews that
list this waste of time as being one of the scariest films, I just
don't get it.

It was nothing more than a low-budget amateur attempt at a Poltergeist
remake, and a really bad one at that. Apparently Barbara Hershey needed
the check as well as the rest of the cast. They all acted as if they
were thinking of somewhere else they'd rather be. I kept waiting for
all those really scary moments that everyone was talking aboutI'm
still waiting. I laughed throughout the film, especially when Elise
waits till Josh gets the crap beat out of him by the big bad demon,
before she tells him he is stronger than the demon while looking for
his son.

The story was a farce, the acting was lame, and I've seen scarier
demons at my front door on Halloween.

The only horrors about this film were that I had to hear Tip Toe
Through the Tulips after all these years of trying to block it from
memory and that I paid $20 for this complete waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
How people are claiming this is the scariest film in decades is beyond
me.

I went to watch this, thinking it was going to be cheesy. I'd seen the
trailer but I thought I'd give it a chance.

I was rather surprised for the first 20-30 minutes, and thought it was
going to prove me wrong. Yes, the story had been recycled but it still
could have been a good concept if done right.

Then the cheese and my giggles came pouring out. I was sitting there
thinking WTH??? This can't be serious. 'Heavy face paint' is meant to
scare me? I've seen better at Haloween!!! And as for the ghosts.....
well, they made me cry...... with laughter!!! I can't believe I wasted
my time and money. The thing that annoys me the most, is that it could
have been a slightly different, more modern version of Poltergeist. At
least that would have made it acceptable.

But no, another huge waste of time. I would not suggest it for any TRUE
horror film fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sorry, but honestly, I don't get what all the hype is about! To me,
this movie seems so overrated! They were trying way too hard just to
scare people, that it left no room for a good story or good acting. I
actually think I was laughing more than being scared while watching
this movie because of the ridiculous acting. And also, does anyone
agree with me when I say the music was absolutely outrageous and over
the top. Thats what I meant when I said they were trying too hard to
scare the audience. Without the music this movie would be totally
hopeless.

Not to mention they copied probably 3 to to 4 different movies. You got
Poltergeist, with the kid getting lost in some other world and the dad
goes in to save him. You got Dead Silence, with the smiling, doll
look-a-like people. And you have all those exorcism movies with the
demons and the devil thrown in there as well. Also, did anyone notice
that the music was extremely similar to that of The Exorcist? Total
copycat movie.

You get nothing new in this unoriginal and highly overrated movie. I
would recommend this film to those who like cheesy teen horror flicks
and like to be scared by stupid pop-out moments. To me, it was a very
over-hyped movie that will probably be forgotten within the next year.
I wouldn't waste my money. And if your still interested in this
pathetic excuse of a horror movie, I would wait to rent it on DVD.
Overall, it was a Hot Mess! Stay Away!

My Rating: 0-10
