
When looking through reviews on this site I've noticed that it seems
most people who weren't impressed with the first one like the second
one more and those who absolutely loved the first movie were somewhat
disappointed with the second.

I think this is because the first one had more build-up and a slower
pace that gradually came to it's climax. The second one instead went
from harmless innocent events and not much happening to BOOM - death!
So I think it has to do with the person's patience and preferences as
to which style they prefer. Personally, I prefer PA1's style and think
it allows the dread to intensify as it grows and grows with each scene.
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked the original Paranormal Activity, you'll like this one.
Myself, I was not really that impressed with the original, and I liked
this one quite a bit better. The mood and creepiness was pretty intense
at times.

It is NOT just a remake of the original movie, as some would have you
think. Yes, it uses that format, and follows it pretty closely, but
does it better and takes it a few steps farther. Just because it uses
the same format doesn't mean it is the same movie. That is like saying
all 'Cop' movies or all 'Buddy Pictures' are the same, just because
they also follow the same format.

If you saw the first movie, you will recognize everything that is
happening here, but that doesn't decrease the sense of dread and
hair-raising-on-the-back-of-your-neck scariness. Instead, I think it
will increase your enjoyment as you watch things develop. Talk about
things that go 'bump in the night!' And sometimes in the daytime, too!
I thought this movie was more intense than the original, and it helps
to put the original into a context, and makes more sense out of it all.

Is it a perfect movie? No, but show me a perfect movie. They all could
be better in SOME way, and this is no exception, but I think it is a
pretty darn good movie, and worth the time.

Oh, I should also tell you kind of "Where I'm coming from." I LOVE a
good horror movie. I LIKE to be scared. But I hate slasher, torture,
vicious movies or movies that get too overt about hurting people. Give
us something we can feel, something we are afraid of, but don't make us
sick. I think Paranormal Activity 2 is just my kind of horror movie.
<|_=00=_|>
As with the first Paranormal Activity, this movie is largely suggestive
instead of implicit with its creepiness. The performances given by the
actors are genuine and the characters are more relatable than in the
first movie. This movie both expands on the Paranormal Activity mythos
and provides a genuinely scary experience, so it comes highly
recommended. So many horror movies these days either mistake gross for
scary (Drag Me to Hell) or are uneventful/predictable with characters
no one could care about (The Strangers, White Noise 1/2, The Eye,
Shutter, etc.). The Paranormal Activity movies stand out as the best
horror films since the superb El Orphanato, you just have to be willing
to fill in some of the blanks yourself to truly appreciate the terror.

Many people "pooh-pooh" the Paranormal Activity films, but I think it's
likely because they've become desensitized to good horror by all the
tripe that constantly comes out undeservedly under the "horror" name
these days. Do yourself a favour and see this movie if you are a horror
buff. It won't disappoint as long as you're smart enough to understand
the movie and what makes it scary.
<|_=00=_|>
Happening in the months leading up to its hit 2009 predecessor,
Paranormal Activity 2 follows Katie's sister and her family as they
experience a series of similar paranormal phenomenon in their home.
Determined to get to the bottom of the increasingly threatening
occurrences, they decide to set up a net of security cameras in and
around the house to see what really goes bump in the night. Alas the
terror only escalates, pushing each of them to their breaking points as
they confront a ruthless being that feeds off their very woe and angst,
that sickeningly wallows in their fear until revealing its final master
plan...

Despite arguably cloning original's formula, this is still a largely
enjoyable and chilling sequel. Although if you weren't a fan of the
original's slow-burning and brooding terror, I find it hard to see you
appreciating this. It stays true to the original's creed, taking time
to develop characters and subtle tension as it slowly creates an
increasingly suffocating repertoire of intimate horror. The 'evil'
remains invisible and shrouded in eerie shadows for the most part,
playing at the terror your imagination can evoke as opposed to visceral
scares. The final twenty minutes is essentially a resonation of all the
progressive tension built up, hitting hard with almost unbearable
suspense and thrilling scare sequences that bring the film home
intensely right until the very last disturbingly grim frame.

But with all that being said, I can't say it totally measures up to the
original's level of brilliance. The security camera shots were a little
corny and didn't have the effectiveness of the infamous darkened
bedroom shot in the original. I also found the acting to be
considerably weaker and the pacing a tad off the potency of the
original.

Nevertheless, the film captures the essence of brooding, intimate
horror perfectly; which is most vital.

I won't spoil anything too major, but I will say it ties in with the
original's story with surprising competence. Katie plays a major role,
whilst Micah also makes a couple of appearances. Oh, and it most
definitely sets up for another sequel. Paramount are obviously pushing
hard to make this the next big horror franchise.

Overall, I was yet again sufficiently creeped out and satisfied by this
second journey into the 'Paranormal Activity' universe. The characters
were detailed and layered as they faced interesting personal demons as
well the evil that haunted them, the atmosphere was great as it focused
predominantly on stark and foreboding imagery, and best of all, it
wasn't a lame Hollywoodization of good non mainstream material - It
kept absolutely true to the tone of Oren Peli's subtle yet profound
masterpiece, as well as adding interesting twists and turns to the
intriguing story.

8/10. If you loved and/or were scared by the previous installment,
check this bad boy out. It won't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
The scariest thing about this movie is that they actually made it and
in the end it just makes me want to ask why, oh why. While the first
one was mildly innovative and provided a few scares and could actually
call itself a horror movie, this one wants to be a carbon copy of the
first one but fails miserably. It's a perfect example of greedy
producers wanting to earn more money on account of the first movie,
without actually caring what the sequel is all about or how many people
who see it will feel like they've been fooled. If after all you want to
see the movie, fast forward until the last 20 minutes and watch, unless
you want to feel like an idiot because you just spent an hour and a
half watching still images of empty rooms. Sequels... there's just
something so terribly wrong about them these days, they used to
actually make them for a reason.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Paranormal Activity was pure genius. This one; not so much.
It was obviously made in a rush to capitalize on the success of the
original. The storyline was convoluted while trying to tie PA1 & 2
together. It was a disappointment because you can see the potential
early in the movie to have been really great. You knew there would be a
connection between the two movies, but instead of their plot lines
flowing and making sense (like the Saw movies), the 'connection' was a
mishmash of stereotypical horror/paranormal genre revelations.

There's two or three scenes out the movie that will make you jump
briefly, but only because they catch you off guard. You are kept on
edge the whole movie because you realize that like PA1 one, You were
kept in some suspense waiting for that really scary moment that just
really never came; it fell flat.

The ending epitomizes the entire movie. For about 10-15 seconds, the
screen turns black (no credits, no nothing...just black) and you're
wondering if it'll be like PA1 where there's a last second surprise.
No, nothing happens. The credits begin to roll; the final suspense and
final let down... The ending symbolizes the entire movie in 10 seconds.

Not to let an opportunity pass by, it is left wide open for a sequel.

However, on a humorous up note, PA2 introduced "Stenchilada" which will
stay with me for awhile. I will also say that this version may actually
transfer better to home 'video' for viewing and may be a little scarier
watched in an intimate setting; especially if you have a little one.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay some, if not most of you will like this film if not love it but I
found it hard to make it through this. The movie starts out with the us
in the home with the family as though we are filming. This continues on
until you wish you had taken your Dramamine.

At about the time one has had it with this we get filming they install
cameras throughout the home (the reason for this is someone has broken
into the home and taking nothing except one peace of the wife's
jewelery that was her grandmothers). One is given the impression that
this ransacking of the home was done by the Paranormal but we will
never find out if the Paranormal did it or the reason for the
Paranormal taking the jewelery.

We then spend a painstakingly long time to build up she scare factor
that is to never happens. This continues on and we finally come to a
point in the film that we fill is going to give us that good jump but
they elect to have a quick simple killing... fade to black... black for
30 seconds... and credits.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not scared one iota. This sequel was not above the original
(which was also not scary) and I kept hearing how much better this was
which prompted me to see it.

Sister of character in original apparently has a son the Demon wants
due to some bizarre story about her dead ancestor making a deal with a
Demon for wealth or some other nonsense. Then just like in the original
weird things happen at night. Blah blah...

Just one long boring scene after another follows none of which
generated any thrills for me. 

Paramount is laughing all the way to the bank.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first paranormal activity movie and from hearing all the
hype about this movie series I'm totally disappointed. This is suppose
to be a fictional movie, yet they didn't bother to show much of
anything other than pans and doors flying open and shut! The only cool
part was the mother being pulled down the stairs by the "ghost" over
and over again, but thats the MOST action filmed for the whole movie.
The end of it consisted of a power outage and the father running around
with his night vision camera tossing it everywhere surprisingly not
breaking it. All you see for 10-15min is green rolling around on the TV
along with some cheap growling effects. Screw this movie. Don't walk
into this movie expecting to see a lot of spiritual contact with the
living because you will be disappointed. It's mostly a movie playing
with sound effects to try to creep you out. If the females weren't so
attractive id give this movie a 0 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
The film starts with a close nit family, a new born baby and of course
the house pet, the family suffers a break-in and install cameras in
case it happens again. I have to admit that I was getting pretty into
it at first and then Katie from the first movie turned up at the house.
Bad move. At that point, the whole audience started muttering and
became restless. Here was an audience, who expected the new film to be
with a new family, to have new scares and to have a whole new
perception on watching horror films alone. Did we get that? No. Were we
promised it? Yes. After paying an extortionate £6.50, I at least
expected to find myself hiding behind my coat for half of the film, or
something along those lines. I understand that with a $5m budget you
can't afford to have special effects running through the film, but it
looks like a majority of that money was spent on both the motorised
flying baby and about 100 meters of fine string to open all the doors
in the kitchen at once. However my review can't be said for the other
members in the audience. Countless times was my concentration diverted
to the amount of people leaving the cinema screen, perhaps they were
too scared? Or maybe just like me, simply bored. Not worth the price,
not worth 2 hours of my life, not worth using your hands to shield your
view of the screen. An absolute joke.
