
When I first heard that Beautiful Creatures (the novel) was going to be
adapted into a movie, I was hesitant to see it, due to the fact that
the trailers were absolutely horrible. I'm just glad that the movie
focused on a lot more than a supernatural romance, because that's only
one of many interesting and complicated plot lines. 

Despite the fact that the LA Times and the NY Times gave the flick
great reviews, a bunch of lesser-known critics were much harsher on it.
After reading some of these reviews, I was shocked to see how biased
and silly some of the comments were. It was clear that these were
people that walked in to the theater expecting Twilight and were too
self-conscious about praising a teen movie to say that it wasn't. 

Twilight is all about the romance. Beautiful Creatures has a big Romeo
and Juliet thing going on, but at the same time, there's mysteries,
prophesies, hypocrisy, Southern politics, Civil War history, religion,
death, evil forces, and all sorts of madness making for quite an
interesting story (with some very witty and sarcastic dialogue to put a
cherry on top). 

Other people that read the book were likewise upset, because they
thought it strayed too much from the source material. The only MAJOR
change made was about 3/4 of the way through the movie, and the end
result was still the same as the book. The reason why the writer did
this was for the sake of TIME. If he hadn't made that change, the movie
would have dragged on for three hours as oppose to rapping itself up
nicely at two.

I thought the acting was good as well, and Alden Ehrenreich and Alice
Englert had nice chemistry as Ethan and Lena. Of course, Jeremy Irons,
Emma Thompson, and Viola Davis gave great performances, but that comes
as no surprise. Emmy Rossum as the wicked siren, Ridley, was fabulous,
and Thomas Mann was hilarious as Link. 

I especially loved Thompson's twisted character-she played a crazy
Republican fundamentalist named Mrs. Lincoln, who gets possessed by
Sarafine Duchannes, the most powerful Dark Caster alive. As Sarafine,
her performance was definitely "Dark", bridging on psychotic. Not what
I was expecting, but I liked it. 

However, I thought some of the other actors, like the girls that played
the Barbie cheerleaders, were horrible. There is a way to portray phony
people and there is a way to pull off a satire while still keeping it
believable. 

Besides plot and acting, I loved the costumes and set. They were very
beautifully done and really captured the gorgeous yet creepy atmosphere
of the story. In addition, the effects were cool-nothing to die over,
but they served their purpose. 

Lastly, I thought the soundtrack was awesome and very different. The
mix of classical, blues, country, and alternative music worked great
with the film.

Overall, I think the movie is an 8 out of 10. It's not amazing, but it
is entertaining, interesting, and something I recommend seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
The story has an original premise in that's it has a fairly familiar
ideas (witches and magic - one of the oldest subjects for stories -
strange kid moves into town and changes everything, secrets about the
town are unveiled etc.) but the focus is on how the caster girl's
powers affect her and her feelings of being outcast all her life, and
the story revolves around a teen romance with a twist.

I went to see the film expecting to follow Lena, the caster girl who is
struggling with the powers of light and dark inside her, but was
(pleasantly) surprised to see the story was generally told from the
point of view of her love interest Ethan, the 'normal' boy who falls
for the outsider when everyone else shuns her. He's a very likable
character, clearly passionate and compassionate, and has a good sense
of humour that provides fresh light on the sometimes dark story matter.

It was also a bit creepier than I expected. There is conflict between
the light and dark casters, as well as these elements within the
characters, fighting for supremacy - danger and fear run through the
film, and you will be surprised more than once.

Personally I found this film really entertaining, though I understand
many fans are unhappy with the adaptation and I'm considering reading
the books myself. I thought it offered everything, humour, action,
fear, a sweet romance, a healthy dose of magic - and it's fresh! This
is a solid, quality young adult movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay so here is the deal with this movie. no it doesn't follow the book
exactly, but then again, what movie really does? I read all the books
in this series about 3 years ago and just finished the last in the
series recently. The movie got the main events pretty much right so
that is all that matters. The effects were pretty amazing and I have
nothing to complain about on the acting. But the only thing that
bothers me is that people keep calling this Twilight. 

For one, Twilight has poor acting and a stupid story line. I read the
books before the movies, and they were only okay. This has a fantastic
story line and it is more... realistic i guess. Yes it has magic and
what not but he likes her because of her! Not because he "just cant
stay away from her". The movie does have a lot of romance but it's more
believable that they really care for each other. 

It is an insult comparing this amazing book and pretty good movie to
Twilight. Yes if you like Twilight you should like this too, just
because Twilight was made into a movie first does not mean that this
should be compared to it. It is not a Twilight copy. Especially if you
read the book, it is for a much more mature mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike the other reviews I actually liked this movie. I didn't go into
the cinema thinking I would like it either. The storyline is good,
quite in depth for a fantasy 12A rated movie. The special effects are
great, especially towards to end. The cast are decent, some giving of
great performances, Alice Englert is an example. 

Yes the story is 'corny' at times and it does kind of remind me of a
Twilight movie, but it worked and in a way mixed the fantasy genre with
a Rom Com style. I've heard the book has lots more characters and a
better ending, and I honestly don't know how they will turn this into a
sequel (if they do) but for me it was good. 

Summary: If you like Twilight (even just slightly), Rom Coms and
fantasy movies then you will most likely like this movie. I found it
overall decent and would watch it again if it was be shown on TV a
later time in the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Im 33 years old and probably not in the main-group for this movie
(teengirls maybe). But me and my friend got a free ticket and went for
this movie we would normally not had seen. 

But i was charmed. The young actors played well, was cute and had
chemistry together. We smiled many times, and the effects was good. The
story was OK, and i have never read the story this movie is build on. 

This is a good movie i think, and probably they will make more movies
so we see how the story will go. I found it fun with the southern small
town fun of religious narrowness. And the fight between good and evil
is a fight in many of the fantasy-movies, and that was a red line in
this movie and worked good. 

Fun also to see Emma Thompson, she did a awesome actor-work.
<|_=00=_|>
As a die-hard fan of the Beautiful Creatures series, this movie was
completely and totally horrible, and almost painful to watch. The movie
was basically a Twilight-ified version of the books I loved. From the
complete absence of key characters (Marian, the Sisters, Reece, Mr.
Wate) to the ridiculous additions to the plot line (Ethan forgetting
Lena) and the major events and character aspects left out (Ridleys
lollipop, Larkin being Light, Macon being a Caster, Link killing Ethan,
and don't get me started about Genevieve killing Ethan!), this movie
was horrible. I understand that the director and the screenwriter were
allowed to take some liberties with the script, and some parts of the
book were just impossible to adapt into a movie, but this
'interpretation' was awful. I would not recommend this movie to anyone,
even someone I deeply disliked. I was close to getting up and leaving
the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
The word on the street is that this is the expected successor after the
conclusion of the Twilight film franchise, having some parallels in its
tale that deals with the supernatural, and love between a being of
higher power and that of an ordinary human except for the reversal of
genders, and set in a schooling environment of an idyllic small town
where people know just about everyone else. It's also based on a
successful series of novels by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl, so it's
everyone's bet just how this first installment would perform that would
determine its future as a potential film franchise, where many other
potentials have fallen after its initial start - The Dark is Rising,
The Golden Compass, and I am Number Four, to name but a few in this
genre.

Beautiful Creatures starts off rather beautifully, with awesome visuals
that would set to engage and create that visual feast for the eyes,
crafting a mystery from the onset in the dreams of protagonist Ethan
Wate (Alden Ehrenreich), who see an ominous sequence of events, only to
not see who that raven haired female is due to a deliberate obscuring
by her long tresses. But soon enough the latest stranger in town
happens to be Lena Duchannes (Alice Englert), who brings forth with her
immense powers, conveniently unleashed against those who taunt her
because of their small town mentality, especially that of Ethan's ex
Emily (Zoey Deutch).

But Lena has other problems to worry about, and that's due to an
internal family feud, with different camps set up who want her pledged
allegiance, being a caster and thought to be one of the most powerful
ones yet. On one hand there's Macon (Jeremy Irons) her uncle who serves
as adviser and father figure. But on the other, is mom Safarine (Emma
Thompson) and evil cousin Ridley (Emmy Rossum) who try to turn her, all
of whom come together for that merry celebration of computer generated
imagery that in all honesty, are gorgeously rendered, making Beautiful
Creatures live up to its namesake. It's almost like Star Wars with
Safarine dead set in getting Lena turn to the dark side when it's her
16th birthday, so that they can rule the universe and galaxy with their
powers, between mother and daughter. Lofty ambitions, but that's what
evil folks fantasize about.

The romance is something you'd have to get used to though, since it
forms the bulk of the story here. If you're a fan of Twilight and its
treatment of first love between two unlikely beings separated by life,
then this would be something quite up the same alley, with inherent
powers that define the abilities of one side of the couple, which are
used for that effective courtship. There's plenty of cooing between the
love birds here as they spend time together like any teenager in love,
if not researching with Amma (Viola Davis), who is a seer of the town,
and an ally in Lena's identity crisis.

If I had to give this film its due credit, it will be how it set up the
hook for that emotional resonance in the final scene. There has to be
some personal sacrifice in store for our protagonists in order to
cement their relationship, although the solution presented here was of
a taller order, that called for some twists during the big magical
battle set against the recreation of the Civil War's Battle of Honey
Hill. It was in fact, the final few minutes that became the movie's
saving grace, and lifted it from mediocrity, providing it that bit of a
heart beat and soul that primed itself for subsequent episodes in the
series.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so I postponed watching this movie due to the harsh comments it had
gotten from many people about how it wasn't worth watching and I have
to say I completely disagree with them! 

I watched this movie and loved the story and will admit even got
sad/happy at points following the characters growth and change in the
movie. It took me to a place that I had never thought about and I will
say that, that is something when there are so many movies out these
days. 

For those who give it crap for not being like the book I do have to say
that look at most any book to movie series i.e Harry
Potter/Twilight/Hunger Games there are things that have to be left out
or reworked in order for a movie to go through it will never be EXACTLY
the same. Some things just don't work in the movie world. 

Again I loved this movie and would love to see a sequel come out of it.
(Yes I do plan on reading the book anyways.)
<|_=00=_|>
The screenplay is completely wrong! I was so angry I wanted to ask for
my ticket money back! I read all four novels and am not sure how they
could attempt to make the next three into movies. Amma is supposed to
be an OLD southern black lady who is involved with voodoo and is
continually places "dolls" and salt to "protect" Wate's Landing. She IS
NOT the Keeper! Professor Marian IS and she is also Lila Evers Wate's
best friend and colleague at the Gatlin Library! Uncle Abner likes Wild
Turket Whiskey and Lemon pie. Amma is a county fair winning cook who
lives at Wate's Landing and is taking care of both Ethan and his father
as she has done her entire life.

The Book of Moons was in the Duchannes Crypt not in the Caster Library
which is only open on holidays when the Gatlin Library is closed! What
happened to the Sisters??? They play an ever increasing role in the
books. Without them Ethan and Lena will not get the maps of the Caster
Tunnels.

Serafine does not die until book three. They killed her off in this
movie. She is an important evil, destructive force in the novels.

Uncle Macon, a Dark Caster??!!! No!! He is a Blood Incubus who chose to
"feed" on dreams! He does not have Caster abilities at ALL! Where is
Link? The basketball team? Savannah Snow is a blond blue-eyed southern
belle! The English teacher has a good eye side and a bad eye side not
the history teacher. Ethan, Link, and Lena do not attend the Battle of
Honey Hill.

Ethan is stabbed by Serafine on the 26th moon and Lena uses the Book of
Moons Ethan finds in Genieve's grave to bring him back to life causing
Macon to die. This fact is not in the movie creating more problems for
the next three novels in the series! The only good thing I can say
about the movie is RIDLEY ROCKS. Her character is spot on and she
steals the movie from the main characters. The casting for her role is
PERFECT!
<|_=00=_|>
=spoiler-

I just came back from watching this at the cinema. I only read the book
two weeks ago after seeing the trailer and was so hooked went and got
the second book. Well this film does the book no justice. Half the
characters are missing and the main characters in the book do not have
the same characteristics. I found it completely different. Its almost
like they re-wrote the whole book (a very sub-standard version). I
almost left half way through the movies but stayed just to see it
through. 

The end of the movie. I'm sorry, but it was completely awful. 

I don't know how they could even make the sequel as half the main
characters aren't even there.

Ridiculous.

Rant over
