
If you are tired of Hollywood action movies that are poorly coordinated
and where the directors just guess at everything, like I am, you are
really going to like this movie.

Personally, I have actively served in the military and the thing that
really bothers me is the non- realism of military roles that I see in
movies. Directors and crew blatantly cut corners, hire no nothing
actors and extras to portray military roles. Actual direction to the
actors and extras that I have heard straight from their lips: "just to
pretend because the audience doesn't know any better and doesn't care."
Well WRONG, we do care...

There are of course directors that DO care for realism such as Ridley
Scott & Oliver Stone. Directors that care hire people like Dale Dye or
equivalent to produce such realism. It is a very hard thing to do when
the "sides" or script simply say "insert tech talk" or "insert military
maneuver" and your movie doesn't even have the technical adviser.

For someone who has been there and done that it is excruciating to see
actors do everything wrong, shoulder rifles wrong and hear stupid and
unrealistic dialog. Since my service ended I have been working in film
and TV myself to somewhat try and make a difference in this manner.

This movie may not have Oscar winning acting, but it gave me a true
chilling effect of realism. Some say they were not real active duty.
Well I can't vouch for that but what I can tell you is that everything
they did and said were extremely accurate and I have little problem in
doubting that statement. 

See/view the film as you want, some will see it as propaganda... Well,
anyone showing pride in something is going to show everything at it's
best and only the people who have never been there will confuse pride
with propaganda. Freedom It is the right to be able to question and
doubt everything, but it is the soldier that actually fights to provide
this very freedom that everyone else takes advantage of. Sure others
will see this film as a recruitment tool. Sure, and again when pride is
shown in a cool way of course the young may choose a career in the
military. The same being said with movies with doctors, firemen or
policemen.

See this movie as a statement to reality in a technical way, pay
attention to how things are spoken, how weapons are suppose to be used,
held, fired and reloaded on the fly. When you use real military there
is an automatic understanding of positioning. I understand that
Hollywood need to be in there to actually film things and understand
the need to make changes to do so but I could not find very much wrong
with what I did see. 

To mention live rounds... this is unheard of in film just because of
the danger level and would never be accepted in civilian North America.
That is why the movie was shot where it was and on live fire ranges. I
am impressed.

I very much liked it and the portrayal of the soldier. I felt pride,
technically things, were accurate and as they should be. Good Job!
<|_=00=_|>
'Act of Valor' is an impressive movie about the cult of professional
warriors in the age of global terrorism. Directors Mouse McCoy and
Scott Waugh collaborated with the US Navy and actual Navy SEALs to give
the film a sense of battle tactics and environment on par with 'Black
Hawk Down' and 'Saving Private Ryan'. What little is lost in the SEALs'
lack of acting chops is more than made up for by honest performances
from the men who actually do this stuff for a living and the film's
gripping battle realism. The movie sidesteps an overt political point
of view, wisely focusing on the men and their mission rather than
commenting on the times in which they serve. Watch for a great scene
where Navy swift boats extract the SEALs from a Central American jungle
with an astonishing display of live fire. Plenty of battle action to
see here that you've never seen before. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Act of Valour set out to create a film with 100% authentic and
realistic action sequences and promote the lives of US Navy Seals. In
that aspect it succeeded, however, failed everywhere else. 

The advertisement of using real navy seals as the main characters
creates a level of military authenticity and accuracy that I have not
seen in a film for a long time. All equipment and vehicles used are
used correctly whilst dialogue and radio chatter inside of combat shows
detail that inexperienced eyes might miss. However, acting is not
something these Seals train for at basic! Dialogue outside of combat is
weak at best and any scene trying to get some form of emotion out of
the audience is lost as soon as one opens their mouth. Not many good
things can be said about the story line. A rather unimaginative plot
coupled with the stereotypical 'bad guy' does little but create a
backdrop for the numerous fire fights and special forces insertions.
Lastly, it should be noted that the film was shot in a noticeable High
Definition that creates specular grandeur on wide pan shots.

Those looking for a well constructed war film should look else where.
The predicable storyline and patriotic American stance will put most
viewers off. However, if HD fire fights, good military realism can be
taken with a pinch of salt this film does not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let 'poor flat acting' reviews fool you - This is an EXCELLENT
movie.

First of all whoever thought of "Let's train Seal's to be actors" vs
"Let's train actors to play Seals" was a genius. Because they obviously
did it the right way - putting them through a boat load of on screen
training, and getting them to a place where they were very comfortable
in front of the camera - cuz they are far from horrible.

True, no Russell Crowe or Denzel comparisons should be made, but the
stars didn't ruin the film - they made it. 

Heartwrenching. Bold. Un-Hollywood. Gritty. This movie takes you in to
a world many idealize in a way that simultaneously shows you how cool
it truly is, as well as how mind-bogglingly impossible it is for just
anyone to do it. 

The mental, emotional, and moral swings of chaos these guys have to
stay professional in is crazy. Ultra realism, with a potent emotional
message I did not expect to be so moved and effected by towards the end
- that took it from a solid 8 star action flick - to a 10 star
eyebrow-raiser!

There's something conveyed in the human soul that just resides in an
actors presence. Unless they inhabit the role with their very cells
(like Heath in the Dark Knight) something's off about it. These guys do
that, instinctively, they are frekin Navy Seals for God's sake! No lies
can be told when they're up there. 

Solid, solid flick that's gonna stay with me for awhile - wow I get it,
let's honor the troops...
<|_=00=_|>
The action scenes in this movie seemed so unbelievably real. I never
left the edge of my seat, and I will watch it over and over again when
it comes out in theaters. It is very impressive watching real SEAL's do
what they do rather than some Hollywood hero popping cheesy smiles and
corny lines. I imagine the critics will hit this movie based on the
seals acting - but if so, they are missing the point. Movies are about
connecting with people by bringing them into the action - that is
exactly what Act of Valor does. It gives you an inside look at what a
group of extraordinary men do for this country, without needing actors
to accomplish it. Amazing.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the chance to screen this movie months ago, though the movie was
in the final stage and needed a few tweaks I couldn't have been more
happy with how it turned out. I am a son of a true Navy Seal, the
stories that I heard my father tell when growing up all seemed to be
written from a script. There hasn't been a movie that has portrayed the
life of a Seal and his family that accurately points out how hard
things really are. I am very happy that I had the chance to view this
film, it has enabled me to see some of the good and bad situations my
father and his Seal friends could have and have been involved in; along
the precession that is required of them. For those that have voted this
down because of the acting, you knew going into it who the actors are,
also this is not a movie about acting, it's a story about the lives of
Navy Seals, it just so happens that they get to show you great action
clips of what things are really like.
<|_=00=_|>
I love America, but come on. This movie was two hours of propaganda
with too many first person shots, too much product placement, and
unbearable acting (I know they're real SEALS, but that's part of the
movie so I have to take it into effect). I've seen reviews that say "as
real as it gets" and "real life, not Hollywood" and they couldn't be
farther from the truth. This movie is of the most unrealistic things
I've seen in a long time. I've come prepared with examples: A SEAL is
shot with a rocket launcher from 5 feet away and it sticks into his
uniform (doesn't detonate) and all he does is stumble back a little.
They say "good thing it was a dud". Realistically, he'd be killed or at
least injured by the force of a 10 pound projectile at 600 mph. There's
more, but I think that gets the picture across. If you want a war
movie, there are plenty of good ones: Saving Private Ryan, Platoon,Hurt
Locker, etc...
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie. If you remember that these are not paid actors you
will appreciate how well this movie was made. Really brings things into
perspective of how the Seals operate. Fast action, lots of shooting and
explosions, and the first person shooter game feel is quite interesting
too. Warning, if you are seeing a movie about war, Navy Seals and
shooting people, DON'T be surprised to see people being shot, blood and
various other aspects of war violence (had to say that since someone
that went with me was surprised). I will definitely be buying this as
soon as it is available. But just like another reviewer said, go see it
in the theaters, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
The Act of Valour was the fact that I sat through what is one of the
worst films I have ever seen. At the end, someone should have handed
out medals to the six of us that actually endured it to the end. It
really is like watching someone play a very bad video game. They
complete a mission and are just looking forward to going home to the
wife and kids when they have to go on another mission. That completed
and yet another mission and then another. Are there no other SEAL teams
due to cut backs ? As with a video game, the baddies cannot fire
straight but the SEAL team never miss. Got hit by a dud RPG ? Just pull
it from your bulletproof vest, dust yourself off and walk away. Do not
waste your money or time on this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this movie yesterday, and since it was a long time ago I saw
a good war movie I thought this would maybe work out. Sadly, it didn't.

First of all, I think it's a bad choice they went with real SEALS to
act in the movie. The objective was probably to heighten the realism,
but c'mon, you can't get more Hollywood than this flick. At no point in
the movie I got the feeling this was realistic. Every shot the SEALS
fire is spot on while terrorists are shooting all over the place. At
least show some casualties on both sides (and not only the heroic
sacrifice of the 'grenade-soldier').

The lack of acting skills was very painful, as you get cliché after
cliché, and laughable (in a bad way) jokes in between to lighten things
up. The characters were as flat as can be. I can't even remember one
guy's name.

The story was TERRIBLE. This may be based on real missions but at least
come up with a coherent background story, or a terrorist plot that's a
bit more sophisticated (the explosive terrorist suits, really?). On top
of that you never got the feeling the bad guys were even close to
striking. They never even got into the tunnel as our hero (who is shot
about 73 times) is still capable to gun down the last remaining bad
guy. So the threat didn't even seem imminent.

I don't want to play down the job these guy do, but sorry, this was
just a bad propaganda fairy tale.
