
This is not a movie for the masses. Will Ferrell fans who liked Melinda
and Melinda and Stranger Than Fiction will not be surprised by his
performance as Nick Halsey in this movie. He does comedy so well, many
of his devoted fans may not realize that he is a good dramatic actor as
well. 

Ferrell's supporting actors, especially Christopher Jordan Wallace, are
also very good. The story moves at a slow and deliberate pace which
will bore all but serious moviegoers. However, the acting is excellent
along the way, and in the end, the movie has synergy and leaves you
with a positive feeling about Nick's future.

If you like deliberately paced independent films, go see this movie. It
won't be around long.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed Stranger than Fiction and, since I had heard Will
Ferrell's performance in that movie compared favorably to the one in
Everything Must Go, was excited to see EMG. I walked away after seeing
EMG a little unsure of whether I truly enjoyed the movie or just merely
appreciated the quality of the director's vision and execution.
Everything Must Go is the story of Nick Halsey (Ferrell), a struggling
alcoholic who, in the first 10 minutes of the movie, has been laid of
from his job and kicked out of his house by his wife, all within the
same day. The rest of the movie looks at Halsey's attempt to manage the
tension between wanting what he once had and trying to pursue a life
that he desires, even though he isn't entirely sure of what that looks
like. I will start by saying I thought the acting of everyone involved,
especially Will Ferrell and Christopher Jordan Wallace, was superb and
a highlight of the movie. I thought the music and visuals added
significantly to the feel of the movie, especially how so much of the
movie occurred in the front yard with the records of his father
occasionally playing in the background. Now I knew to expect a story
that was not a happy-go-lucky comedy (is there one about an alcoholic
struggling with sobriety), but was hoping for some more
lightheartedness. I did particularly enjoy watching the relationship
between Nick Halsey and Wallace's "Kenny Loftus", and thought that the
filmmakers did a good job pairing the two actors up. A couple of things
with which I walked away: first, I found it interesting how the
director decided to show Halsey's eventual growth in the way that he
let go of certain things, and to whom he left them. Afterwards, a
friend of mine and I discussed how difficult these acts would have
been, but thought it appropriate for someone trying to move beyond such
a serious issue as alcoholism. I also found it interesting that such a
pivotal character, like Halsey's wife, has no screen time at all, save
for her voice in one scene. It is as if the filmmakers want us to see
how much damage one person has managed to do by simply stepping out of
another's life. Overall, I do believe that the movie was well made,
with an interesting story and fantastic acting, but the mood of the
film was a little heavier than what I was looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything Must Go is probably Will Ferrell's first truly well done
film in years. The Other Guys was pretty good, Step Brothers was funny
in parts, but this one totally takes the cake for being a great drama,
and schools anyone who thinks Will Ferrell can't do anything but
comedy. Though I doubt fans of Old School will think highly of this.

The plot isn't too much, but it sustains a film. Will Ferrell is Nick
Halsey, an alcoholic who has had one too many alcohol-related episodes
and has finally lost his job. He returns home to find out his wife has
changed all the locks on the house, and has moved all of his belongings
to the front yard. Frustrated and hopeless, he decides to life on his
front lawn, and make the best out of a horrible situation.

He spends his day sucking down Blue Ribbons beers, until he is met by a
chubby adolescent named Kenny (Christopher Jordan Wallace, the son of
the late rapper Notorious B.I.G.). Kenny's mom takes care of an elderly
woman, leaving him free to roam the streets on his bike. Kenny and Nick
strike up an odd, but warm relationship with each other and when Nick
is informed by his AA sponsor (Pena) that he must move all his stuff
off his lawn in three days, he works with Kenny to help them hold a big
yard sale.

A sub-plot involves Nick getting acquainted with the woman across the
street who has just moved to the neighborhood and is awaiting her
husband's arrival. The relationship isn't as strong or as well-crafted
as the relationship between Nick and Kenny, but it is still a solid
one.

It's also noteworthy that we never see Nick's wife or the woman's
husband anywhere in the film. We don't need to, though. The plot works
fine without them, and I believe that if we saw Nick's wife in the film
we'd get too many arguments between the two which may result in (a)
believability being low and (b) a possibility for Ferrell's comedy side
to sneak in. We don't need comedy here. We get it, but in tiny,
miniscule doses. There is almost nothing funny about this situation.

Once again, this proves that Will Ferrell is a great character actor,
and doesn't have to get drunk, shout his lines, or get in goofy fights
to be successful. Unfortunately, Everything Must Go's overall
performance wasn't impressive, and it may be a long time before Ferrell
does something like this ever again.

Not everything here is perfect. The worst flaw is the ending because
there is no emotional payoff, and nothing to make our experience
anymore than just enjoyable. I wanted more than enjoyable. I haven't
read the short story "Why Don't You Dance?" by Raymond Carver, so I'm
not sure of any similarities both this and the story share. Everything
Must Go is a good film in general, but a great film in terms of
Ferrell, who is essentially putting on a one-man-show for more than
half the film.

Starring: Will Ferrell, Christopher Jordan Wallace, Laura Dern, and
Michael Pena. Directed by: Dan Rush.
<|_=00=_|>
Will Ferrell plays Nick Halsey, who arrives home from being fired from
his job to find all his belongings on his front lawn. Nick finds a note
on his door from his wife letting him know that she has decided to
leave him.

Rapt with despair Nick, who is a recovering alcoholic, starts drinking
heavily and camps out on his front with all his possessions.
Eventually, Nick befriends one of the kids in his neighborhood, and
together they hold a yard sale on his front lawn to sell off everything
that he owns.

This is really a story about hitting rock bottom and figuring out a way
to start over again. Nick selling off all his belongings becomes
cathartic for him as he lets go of his past.

Will Ferrell shows some excellent depth in this film. This was huge
departure from his normal roles. He may not have nailed it but I admire
the fact that he took so much risk with this role. The movie could
worth checking out for that alone.

I really enjoyed Rebecca Hall as the next door neighbor that helps Nick
on his path to redemption. She impressed me in Vicky Christina
Barcelona and The Town and she does an excellent job on this film as
well. I look forward to seeing some of the movies she has coming out
next year.

This movie is far from perfect, The pacing is pretty slow, the ending
is too abrupt and it lacked some of the emotional punch that it seemed
to be striving for. It was an interesting watch however and its worth
checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Good without the bad ain't no good at all." After Nick (Ferrell) gets
fired from his job of 16 years he comes home to find his wife has
changed the locks on his doors and all of his stuff is on the lawn.
Thinking the best way to fix things is to stay at home Nick begins his
new life, living outside. This is a very very good movie and a very
different role for Will Ferrell. While not quite as good as Adam
Sandler in "Reign Over Me", Ferrell still shows he has what it takes to
be a good dramatic actor. There are a few funny parts in this but this
is not a comedy. It's a drama with a lot of heart and while the movie
is depressing at times it is a joy to watch. Ferrell does have some
funny scenes with his own style of humor that adds to the character and
watching him with the actor that plays Kenny is a treat. This is not a
typical Will Ferrell movie, but being a huge fan I loved it and look
forward to more roles like this from him. I highly recommend this.
Overall, if you like Ferrell you will like this, if you don't give this
a shot still. You may like the change. I give it an A.

Would I watch again? - I think I would.

*Also try - Barney's Version
<|_=00=_|>
Everything Must Go is an art movie. Maybe that wasn't the director's
intention but that's how I'll classify it.

I give it 3 stars out of 4.

Just a very simple, and ultimately touching, story about a man who's
life is falling apart and it is purely his own fault.

It is nice to see Will Ferrell ACT and not play his normal over the top
persona in comedies.

This is a QUIET movie. Just a mellow ride with some humor, some drama,
a pleasant setting, good cinematography and production values and
interesting characters. One of the better films I've seen this year! I
might even be tempted to give it 3 and 1/2 stars! It is like hanging
out in a museum for the day or a quiet afternoon enjoying a good bottle
of wine. Not something you'd want to do everyday but for an afternoon
it is a nice diversion from the mad, mad, crazy world we live in.

And no, it is NOT a guilty pleasure. It is a good film but not for
everyone. Somehow I think this might have worked better as a UK or
French film.

I love a slam bang movie like Kick-Ass or Inglourious Basterds or
Oldboy as much as the next cat. But this isn't that movie.

Like I said, it is a quiet art movie. Like The Music of Chance starring
James Spader from back in the 90s.

Writer-director Dan Rush did a very good job. Especially since this is
his FIRST film and first Internet Movie Database credit! It is almost
like something Hal Hartley might have done but less quirky.
<|_=00=_|>
Dan Rush's modestly paced 'Everything Must Go' pretty much takes a look
at the worst day of Nick Halsey's life and the days that follow where
he's left stranded in his lawn. The theme is quite refreshing but even
though the movie is tagged a comedy, the humour here is very dry (it
does draw a few chuckles) and it felt more like an intense human drama
than a comedy. Halsey's situation is depressing and it really makes the
viewer want to hate Catherine, even though, the writer tries to make
the point that she was justified in treating him that way. But anyway,
this is Halsey's story and perhaps to balance the intensity, Rush could
have added more quirks. The pacing is quite slow at times but there was
never a boring moment. I liked how the director and Ferrell depict
Halsey's struggle with alcoholism. However, I felt that the story and
characters (especially the supporting ones) could have been further
developed. Will Ferrell is excellently restrained which makes Halsey
all the more human and easier to relate to. Rebecca Hall is brilliant.
Laura Dern has about one scene and she shows the viewer how one scene
alone can make an actor stand out. Overall, I wouldn't recommend
'Everything Must Go' to those looking for a comedy. It is an intense
humour drama about a man who once had everything and is now forced out
of his house and how he struggles and attempts to deal with his
problems one step at a time.
<|_=00=_|>
'EVERYTHING MUST GO': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Will Ferrell tries his hand at more serious comedy-drama again (after
the likes of 2006's 'STRANGER THAN FICTION') with this tale of a
relapsed alcoholic who loses his job and wife on the same day and
resorts to living on his front lawn. It's based on the short story 'Why
Don't You Dance' by Raymond Carver and is written and directed by first
time filmmaker Dan Rush. It co-stars Rebecca Hall, Michael Pena,
Stephen Root, Laura Dern and Christopher Jordan Wallace (the son of
Faith Evans and the late rapper 'The Notorious B.I.G.') in his second
film. The movie is funny as well as depressing and emotional. It's a
nice step in Ferrell's career, for exploring broader range.

Ferrell plays Nick Halsey, an alcoholic who's recently fell off the
wagon. As the film opens he's fired from his job for apparently having
an affair with a new employee and then left by his wife for the same
reason. He's also locked out of his home (after his wife changes the
locks), with all of his belongings left on the front lawn. His credit
cards have all been canceled as well and his company car is repossessed
by his former employers. With no money and no place to go he decides to
camp out on his front lawn with all his stuff. His neighbors complain
of him being a public nuisance though and he's reported to the police.
Thanks to city law his cop buddy Frank (Pena) is able to give him five
days to hold a yard sale before he has to kick him off the property.
While trying to sell his stuff Nick befriends a new neighbor across the
street (Hall) and a local neighborhood kid (Wallace).

Like I said the movie is surprisingly dramatic for a Will Ferrell movie
and he pulls off his performance impressively. The material isn't too
much of a stretch for him given that it's still pretty comedic but it's
definitely honest and set in reality (unlike the majority of his films,
which are mostly slapstick) and there's some pretty hard hitting drama
at times as well, especially towards the end. The movie still has a
sizable amount of laughs though so traditional Ferrell fans shouldn't
be disappointed. That's why the movie is the perfect step for Ferrell
(to test out his range). A gigantic leap in to serious drama would be
to sudden and the film works perfectly as is. A smart move for Ferrell
and a decent film results because of it.

Watch our review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WEq_X_axUaU
<|_=00=_|>
¨Do you know what the rate of success is for marriage when one person
sobers up, but the other one doesn't?¨

Will Ferrell stars in this fantastic comedy slash drama, but this isn't
the typical Ferrell comedy where we see him screaming all over the
screen. This time he plays a quiet and sad alcoholic, and it's perhaps
one of his best performances to date. Everything Must Go was a really
pleasant surprise for me; it reminded me a lot of 2008's film The
Visitor starring Richard Jenkins. Will Ferrell gives a very similar and
quiet performance. Nothing really happens in the movie, but it's the
relationship between the characters that carries the film to a higher
ground. This is Dan Rush's first film as a director, and he really hits
a home run with his debut film. He also adapted the screenplay from
Raymond Carver's short story ¨Why Don't You Dance.¨ The dialogue in
this movie is just great, and it really feels authentic. The actors
also do a great job with the pauses; everything about this movie makes
it fresh. The film is rather slow paced and focuses more on the drama
and interactions between characters who end up bonding in unexpected
ways. It also has very funny moments; although not the laugh out loud
kind of humor, but more of a put a grind on your face kind of comedy. I
didn't know Ferrell had it in him to give a performance of this caliber
without relying on his usual loud mouth role. This is the sort of guy
we can identify with, and whose life seems to be unraveling right in
front of us. So much potential gone down the drain due to a small
mistake. 

Will Ferrell plays a Sales Executive named Nick Halsey who at the
beginning of the film is being fired from his job due to his problems
with alcohol. He was a great worker, and seemed to be recovering from
his drinking problem, but recently had a relapse when he traveled to
Denver and decided to have a few drinks to celebrate an important sale.
Word got out to the office in Arizona and they decided it was time to
let Nick go. Without a job, now Nick arrives home only to discover that
all his things are laying in the front yard of his house and his wife
has changed the locks of the doors. Apparently in Denver he also slept
with another woman and now his wife has kicked him out of the house.
Nick decides to stay in his front yard sitting on his reclining chair
and has no intention of moving out. Someone makes a complain and the
police come to arrest him for disturbing the peace in the neighborhood,
but his friend, Detective Frank Garcia (Michael Peña), gets him a
permit to stay in his front lawn for five days with the excuse that he
is having a garage sale. During these days he befriends a young boy
named Kenny (Christopher Jordan Wallace) who practically spends all day
on his own. Nick hires him to help out with the sale and during that
time they become friends. Nick teaches Kenny a thing or two about
baseball. A new neighbor also has recently moved in the house in front
of Nick's; she introduces herself as Samantha (Rebecca Hall) and says
she's expecting a baby girl in a couple of months. Nick opens up to her
about his problems and they being an interesting friendship. 

Everything Must Go is a really interesting small film that will surely
put a smile on your face as we see these authentic interactions between
characters that probably under normal circumstances never would've
befriended each other. The thing I enjoyed the most about this film was
the realistic way in which each of these characters was portrayed; and
the way the actors played them. Will Ferrell, Christopher Wallace, and
Rebecca Hall (who I first came to love in Ben Affleck's flick The Town)
all give great performances and the success of the film relies entirely
on them. The movie isn't deep, it doesn't try to be preachy either; it
just focuses on these small relationships and lets us now that it's
never too late to start again. Will Ferrell should continue to accept
interesting projects like this so he can prove that he is more than a
one dimensional actor. I love his comedies, like Talladega Nights and
Ron Burgundy, but it is great to see him in different roles as well
proving he can be a serious actor as well. Director, Dan Rush took a
huge risk by giving him the lead role, but the gamble paid off because
he fit the role perfectly. This is a different kind of film, but I
absolutely recommend it. I loved it.

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
"Everything Must Go" is a wonderful film. Taken from a short story by
Raymond Carver, it is a simple idea, but richly textured so the viewer
must look under the layers of simplicity for the story to open up. The
short story is only a few pages long and it is very simple on the
surface. The writing is sparse, but it still makes you think and this
idea goes into the film as well.

Will Ferrell plays Nick Halsey, the ex-Vice President of a Regional
Sales Office. We catch him on his last day of work, downing a flask and
reminiscing on the meeting where he was recently terminated after
falling off the wagon one too many times. After getting beer, Nick
arrives home to see all of his stuff in his front yard and the locks
changed. His credit cards and bank account are frozen and he's left
with the money on his wallet and the stuff on his lawn.

Ferrell gives a very wonderfully subtle performance. Carver would be
proud. It seems to me that the main complaint that people have voiced
with this film was that there was no big payoff. I disagree. I think
there was a big payoff, just not in the sense that there was this huge
change in the character. The change is subtle, but it is there. Ferrell
goes back to his dramatic abilities to show us the story of a man in
crisis, struggling to get out and he does it well. My fear is that this
movie will be misunderstood by fans of Ferrell's comedy.

It is a depressing movie, but it is a simple story of finding hope as
well with comedy sprinkled throughout. My advice would be to give it a
chance and be rewarded by seeing Ferrell's abilities.
