
This movie was a pleasant surprise to me because I thought it was going
to be more of a "horror" movie...I wouldn't call it that, I'd call it a
terrific suspense thriller with good twists here and there. I liked the
casting and the storyline. The actors did a good job, esp. the young
college student male lead. This is a story that could have actually
happened, imo. The music was a big part of the movie, too. Good
soundtrack that, while I was aware of it, it did not take away from the
scenes but built up my anxiety! It was like another character.
Definitely worth seeing for all the right reasons. Very entertaining
and kept my attention throughout. All this without "blood & guts"
galore - made me think of the old Alfred Hitchcock-type thrillers that
depended more on the viewer's anticipation and imagination. Lastly, I
thought I had the plot figured out, but I was surprised at how wrong I
was. Smiled on my way out of the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
So here we are with The Last House on the Left. Sorry, I meant House at
the End of the Street. Whatever. Can we start by having a serious talk
with the guy picking movie names? He is really slacking off. We are
here with Elissa (Jennifer Lawrence) and her Mom (Elisabeth Shue)
moving from the big city to a small town looking for a new start.
Of-course, the house next door was apparently the location of a double
murder where a little girl killed her parents and then disappeared
herself. The little girl's brother (Max Thieriot) still lives in the
home despite the tragedy. The adults hate him because his presence
keeps them from bulldozing the house and its drain on the local housing
market and the teenagers hate him because his parents were murdered?
There really is no explanation for this other than everyone in this
town is apparently a jerk. (Just go with it. That's the best were going
to get.) Elissa starts to fall for Ryan and also has a hard time
understanding the massive hate he gets when her mom and the
neighborhood object to their relationship. But whether it for
protecting the good or serving the forces of evil, Ryan has secrets of
his own and as the two get close things begin to get creepy.
(Allegedly)

Minus a few jump scares that I'm not afraid to admit made me drop my
popcorn due to some sharp sound editing; this is no horror flick. HATES
was advertised as scary business to get the target teenage audience'
butts in the seats but is merely a Suspense/Thriller with young leads.
With the exception of a single twist that will shock some and slightly
nudge others everything is played rather straight. There's not much new
to see here and there is certainly nothing to be scared of. Even after
the true evil is finally revealed, there just doesn't seem to be much
of a threat at any point. 

HATES is still indeed, watchable. That's mostly due to Jennifer
Lawrence who shines bright amidst all the average. It's impressive how
she takes something as boring as a high school girl falling for the
"mysterious guy with a past", adds heart and makes it more interesting
than it was written. When in danger she's believably strong willed and
could be the perfect "Scream Queen" for a horror film deserving of it.
Elisabeth Shue played the part of concerned mother well and Max
Thieriot didn't detract either. The problems with the film are rather
in its constant plot holes and lack of anything interesting, original
or more importantly scary for a film that calls itself Horror.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that there are two or three good jump sequences but
there was no real payoff in the end. Nickelodeon does Psycho, Sleepaway
Camp and maybe a touch of Kiss the Girls. It was not as bad nor as
comical as The Possession and with that, this one perhaps takes itself
too seriously. If this movie ever had an R rating then I assure you
that all the best bits are on the cutting room floor. The editing is
too quick and visually plays it much too safe. This one is up there
with My Soul To Take in the disappointment factor. Complete cheese on
toast for anyone not in High School. The acting was not terrible but
there was just nothing to act on.
<|_=00=_|>
**Alert: Spoilers Included**

I watched an advanced press screening for this film, and I have to say
it was not the dead-girl-haunts-house horror story I was expecting,
which turned out to be a very good thing. FYI: This one's more thriller
than horror. 

There's no doubt that Jennifer Lawrence makes this movie. The rest of
the characters are underdeveloped and one-dimensional and it becomes
difficult at times to separate Jenn in this role from her role in the
Hunger Games. 

For about half of the film, we're led to believe that the little girl
locked away is a rabid serial killer. However, there is a HUGE plot
twist at the end --one that is smarter and scarier than the standard
horror fare we're used to. 

With that said, the first half of the film drags (do we really care
about Jenn's rock concert practices?) but certain parts are mysterious
enough for viewers to put in the effort to connect the dots. 

If you're a Jennifer Lawrence fan or love Criminal Minds/Law and Order
SVU, check this movie out. If you're looking for a haunted house movie,
you've clicked on the wrong flick. 

As for me, I was pleasantly surprised!
<|_=00=_|>
House At The End of the Street stars Jennifer Lawrence and is about a
daughter and mother who move into a house where the next door
neighbor's's daughter killed her parents and fled the scene. She only
left one surviving family member which was her brother.

A terrible name, terrible plot. Everything about this film is so
clichéd that you stood nearly 10 feet ahead of it. There was no
suspense and scenes that made you want to scream at the characters.
And, just mentioning the characters, they were VERY one-dimensional. I
didn't care about them, what happened to them, or what they will do.
They all felt too generic to even listen to sometimes. 

I kind of got the impression they were attempting a modernized Psycho-
twist for teens. But it didn't come off, at all. The first half or
maybe quarter was all right. But it went down-hill way too fast for me
to comprehend. I thought the film could have went one direction, but
when it came to the intersection, it looked at the right direction,
gave it the finger, and went in the wrong one. I really had hopes for
this one but it didn't deliver.

All in all, a terrible film. The only good thing about it is the first
20-30 minutes, some well-directed sequences and Jennifer Lawrence.
That's all. Best to avoid this one, if you know what's good for you. 

A low 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've never seen a movie before then this is probably tolerable.
Its always nice to see Elisabeth Shue. Jennifer Lawrence is definitely
a leading lady of the future but this does no-one associated with it
any favours.

Its just too clichéd, too predictable to be of any entertainment value.

In fairness I didn't totally hate it, but it wasn't involving. Its not
a movie that you'll ever watch again or buy the DVD/ BR.

This is no fault of the cast but the script which means that you'll
know how the movie ends before it is even half over. 

Unless you're a rabid Lawrence fan then I wouldn't bother with this
until there is a Netflix or DVD release.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a little bit skeptical about watching this movie and I came very
close to not watching it. But, because I had a spare couple of hours
with nothing better to do, I decided to give it a whirl.

A lot of modern-day horror movies are made on a budget. The typical
tell-tale signs which give them away is the use of poorly lit sets,
very few filming locations and a very small cast of young and unknown
actors. They like to follow the path of "The Blair Witch Project" and
rely on heavy breathing to create the suspense. A pretty young lady
starts to breathe heavily in the dark, something jumps out and gets
her, right? Nowadays, this has become the norm and this is what we come
to expect.

Well, I'm pleased to say that "House at the End of the Street" is
different and unique in its own right. Why? Because its actually got a
storyline and it keeps you thinking! Just when you think you've figured
it all out there's another clever twist that comes along and makes you
think "Gee, why didn't I think of that". This is a movie which is
always one step ahead of you! Also, the actors in this movie actually
act. Don't get me wrong, it's not on the same page as an Alfred
Hitchcock movie, but it is, nonetheless, very refreshing.

"House at the End of the Street" turned out to be a little gem. I'm
glad that I rented it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this early because a friend of mine was able to get free tickets.
If I had paid money for it, I would've walked out in about twenty
minutes. The plot is entirely predictable (except for a half unexpected
twist towards the end) and derivative. It's one part Amytiville Horror,
one part Black Christmas, and one part Psycho.

Everything from this movie is essentially ripped from another movie.
Each "scare" is just a jump scare. Absolutely no ambiance or tension.
They keep attempting to do misdirection, but after the first few scenes
of "hah! nothing behind this door!" it becomes a parody of itself.
There's even a scene in the last few minutes that is mostly a
scene-for- scene of the night vision bit from Silence of the Lambs.

The cinematography is awful. During moments of "emotional drama" the
camera is all but three inches from the actors faces. The camera is
shaky through almost all of the movie, from which my friend became
nauseous. They do that cheesy "move slowly towards object of interest"
thing.

The director seems to want you feel for the characters by shoving their
life problems in your face within the first few minutes" Oh, teenage
girl has problems with her mother. Oh, teenage guy is shunned by
everyone. Are we supposed to feel for these one-dimensional characters? 

All-in-all, a terrible movie. It's definitely NOT for horror fans. Save
your money and catch it on cable in about three months.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see HOUSE AT THE END OF THE STREET last night and didn't
enjoy it as much as I hoped I would. The story is dull and predictable
and the acting isn't rocksolid!Jennifer Lawrence played her role well
though, she "blows" everyone away in this movie BUT, on the other hand,
and I don't want to sound too negative, this flick wasn't a very hard
nut for her to crack!

The story ;

Elissa (Lawrence) moves into a new home together with her mom
Sarah(Elisabeth Shue) and finds out that the son of a murdered couple,
who lived next door, still lives in the house where his parents were
killed. The surrounding neigbours complain about him and tell Elissa
that the boy is bad news! She wants to find out herself though and
steps into his life...

It's a not a very bad movie but skip the theatre and wait for it on
bluray/DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst movie I have ever been talked into going to see in
the movie theater.

The story is ultra-predictable, and not at all interesting. 

It is great seeing Elizabeth Shue.....but her character is flat and
somewhat unbelievable. (What doctor marries a rock star??)

They should have just called this movie: Jennifer Lawrence on Screen
for an Hour and a Half

Lawrence wasn't terrible, but it shouldn't be hard to play a high
school student who hates her mom in every scene. 

All of the supporting characters are poorly developed. I did not feel
attached to any of them, and after a while was actually hoping that one
of them would be killed, so as to add some sort of entertainment value
to an otherwise bland movie.

Overall, this movie was awful and not worth wasting any money to see it
in the theater or renting/buying it on DVD/blu ray. 

Unless your significant other begs you to see this because they are
HUGE Jennifer Lawrence or Horror fans, DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME.
