
Congrat's Charlie Smith, you've done it again. Congrat's Andrew Kosove
and Broderick Johnson...and Bob Engelman. I've been a part of a lot of
films in our industry, as an actress, a choreographer, a director...and
there are only a handful of great films you can point too, that you can
watch over and over and over, and it never gets old. Dolphin Tale will
be added to that list. From Morgan Freeman to Ashley Judd, all of the
actors were phenomenal. The child actor Nathan Gamble pours his little
heart into this one, and will become the new it young actor. Harry
Connick Jr. is the dad of all dads, and the young actress Cozi
Zuehlsdorff will will eventually become a wonderful little actress if
she stays away from troublemakers in the industry. There were also a
lot of successful actors in the supporting cast that helped make this
film one for the ages. like, Frances Sternhagen, Kris Kristofferson,
Ray McKinnon, Jim Fitzpatrick, Marc Macauly and Richard Libertini. And
last but not least Winter. If you love animals and/or Dolphins..you too
will love Dolphin Tale!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a fun, feel good movie the whole family can enjoy. Don't
let the PG rating scare off the little ones. The only reason I can
figure they gave it a PG rating is because of the talk of prosthetics
and because Winter loses her tail. It is based on the story of Winter
the dolphin. A lot of it is true although they have "hollywooded" it
up. I saw it in 3D. I think the cinematography was beautiful. The
colors were very vibrant. Winter is an inspiration to us all. She shows
kids that anyone can overcome obstacles.
<|_=00=_|>
Without going into a dissertation of my life and background I went to
the Warner Brother's Premiere last night at the village theater in
Westwood and my eyes were watery almost the entire movie. Being an
animal lover and activist I would equate this film in it's quality to
several other extremely successful animal feature films, which I love
and watch, over and over again.

Dolphin Tale reminded me of some of the greatest animal films I've ever
seen, such as 'My Dog Skip' 'Born Free' 'Babe' 'Old Yeller' 'Marley and
Me' Benji' 'Free Willy' 'Lassie' and 'Flipper' but better! The family
relationships between Ashley Judd and Nathan Gamble (mother & son) and
then Gamble and Austin Stowell (1st cousins) and then Stowell and his
parents Kim Ostrenko (Judd's sister) and Jim Fitzpatrick (Judd's
brother in law & Stowell's father) and then Gamble and Winter the
Dolphin and then Winter and Gamble and Cozi Zuehlsdorff (Gamble's new
best friend) and her dad Harry Connick Jr (Marine Biologist) and then
Connick and his dad Kris Kristofferson...was priceless.

The story of Winter obviously is what drives this film, but it the
relationships is what makes this movie so emotional and visceral.
Everyone will be able to associate themselves with these relationships.

Not to mention that the film is beautifully shot and it appears as
though the town of Clearwater beach is a a cozy little beautiful place.

This may be THEE BEST animal movies EVER made...EVER!
<|_=00=_|>
I brought my 8 year old daughter with me to preview Dolphin Tale and we
both LOVED it! This is a perfect family movie and I couldn't recommend
it enough. The message was positive and although there were some heavy
topics addressed - it wasn't over the top... you leave feeling good
with lots to think about. This isn't just a movie that encourages you
to never give up. It did a great job bringing up real issues like
self-image, pride, acceptance of those who are different, self-worth,
homeschooling, importance of family, the power of a good family, the
value of family. It addresses family relationships, friendship with
those who are different, public school issues... oh, and so much more!
This movie opens opportunity for discussion with your kids OR you can
just go and enjoy the story. Can't wait to see it again in September!
<|_=00=_|>
Inspirational films are often difficult to review. The movie is
inspirational for a reason; therefore, it's usually telling a story of
someone making the best out of a bad situation. The problem is that no
one wants to be the person to say the movie isn't worth watching.
Thankfully, Dolphin Tale isn't one of those movies. Dolphin Tale tells
the true story of Winter, a dolphin who due to a very unfortunate
accident loses her tail and the group of people who help her to survive
despite her handicap. 

Director Charles Martin Smith, best known for his roles in The
Untouchables and Never Cry Wolf, takes a heartfelt story and presents
it just as is. The movie's lead is a young actor named Nathan Gamble,
who plays Sawyer Nelson. . Gamble is surrounded by high level talent,
which you usually don't find in movies of this type; Ashley Judd, plays
Lorraine Nelson, Sawyer's mom; Morgan Freeman, working alongside of
Judd for the third time, plays Dr. McCarthy, a VA doctor tasked with
trying to create a working prosthetic to replace Winter's tail; and
Harry Connick Jr. is doctor Clay Haskett, who runs the Clearwater
Marine Aquarium and along with his team is mostly responsible for
saving Winter's life. Judd provides an endearing charm as Lorraine, and
her enthusiasm shines through. There couldn't have been anyone better
to play Dr. McCarthy than the great Morgan Freeman. Freeman gives
credence to Dr. McCarthy and, thanks to him not being in the right
frame of mind, his dedication to creating a new tail for Winter. The
charismatic Harry Connick Jr. gives a stellar performance, providing
Sawyer with a role model. Cozi Zuehlsdorf makes her acting debut as
Hazel Haskett, Sawyer's best friend. Along with Sawyer, the two of them
work together to make some magical happen. Zuehlsdorf's shining
personality and adorable smile, along with her chattiness, reminded me
of what makes my own daughter so special. Not to be overlooked or
forgotten, Winter the Dolphin plays herself and is a wonder to watch. 

Dolphin Tale teaches and inspires in so many ways. It teaches us to not
judge anyone that may be different; it teaches us that family is
forever; it inspires us to be role models; it inspires single parents
to keep up the great work; and most importantly it inspires those that
have set back to never give up. Winter's story is an incredible
miracle. As I sat between my son, who's almost 8, and my daughter who
is 5, I couldn't help but well up with tears at the determination of
these extraordinary people as they all went above and beyond in the
hopes of saving a fish; yes, I know that dolphins are mammals and are
not really fish. At the end of the movie, I asked my kids how they
liked it and they both said that they loved it. They then asked me how
I liked it, and my response to them was "I think that may have been my
favorite movie so far this summer." I no longer have to think about it,
it IS my favorite movie so far this year.

Grade: A+

Be sure to check out Winter at www.seewinter.com; and then check out
our website at www.twodudereview.com
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first review I have written, but I feel obligated as this
movie was so perfect for its genre. I'm not saying it is an academy
award winner, but as far as inspirational, age appropriate and
inspiring family movies go, if simply won't get much better than this.

Let me start by saying that I have a child with a physical disability,
and during his second surgery, his school class gave him a book about
Winter. This was way before the movie, and I had never heard of Winter.
My son (age 5), who loves fish and sea life, was instantly taken with
the idea of a dolphin that was special like he was. We read the book
many times, and even at the hospital we promised that someday he would
get to meet Winter.

About six months after his surgery, we traveled to Clearwater from our
home on the opposite Florida Coast (4 hour drive). When we arrived we
found the aquarium there very sparse and not all that impressive. That
said, they were majorly renovating due to the money that they were paid
to make this movie even though it still wasn't out yet. That said,
Winter was well worth the trip. She is every bit as inspirational and
real as what you see in the movie. I'm only bringing this up to focus
on my movie review. This is for anyone that thought the movie was over
the top sappy or cheesy. I'm sorry, but that part is true and to not
make it look that way would be virtually impossible. Winter gives hope
to people with special needs. My son even made her a card and got to
hold her special tail.

The other features of the movie like the boy finding her and probably
many other aspects are creative license. She was actually found by a
boat on the East coast of Florida. But, I don't think that really
matters. When we went there, even with no movie, and met Winter we knew
that she was a movie star.

The movie itself was well produced, well-acted (Morgan Freeman was very
good), and took on difficult themes subtly for young children. I guess
the best comparison to this would be Free Willy, however that story was
pure fantasy and simply not as good of a movie, in any way, to Dolphin
Tale.

I highly recommend this movie for any family, especially anyone with a
disability. And as far as the barely believable and possibly sappy
plot, sometime real life is like that and that is a good thing!
<|_=00=_|>
"Family is forever."

Although Dolphin Tale is by far not my favorite film of the year, like
Midnight in Paris, it is a solid kids' film, an adventure that treats
animals and 11 year olds with respect and doesn't demonize adults. 

A dolphin, Winter, needs a new tail to survive a crab-trap
entanglement, and 11 year old Sawyer Nelson is the new friend to help
her through the adjustment. His job: show us that being excited about
something worthwhile is the answer to school blues and mother loss. The
film is aces at showing that being engaged in helping a living being
leads to success and happiness.

A slew of other good-willed people help Winter, from like-minded
friends to doctors to grandpas. And that's the sweet point of the film,
emblazoned on an all-purpose Swiss Army knife: "Family is Forever."
With two crucial families needing a mother in one and a father in the
other, "family" extends to the community that nurtures children,
adults, and animals. Not only does a Clearwater, Florida, marine rescue
hospital need financial support to continue, so also does a crippled
soldier and Winter. The figurative connections are obvious but still
carefully entered into the drama so as not to heighten the sugar
content.

Besides, any movie that includes Kris Kristofferson as a benevolent
grandpa and Morgan Freeman as a caring prosthetics doctor can't be all
bad. For a supposedly sophisticated film critic, I'm veritably
childlike in the presence of these accomplished actors. BTW, Ashley
Judd as single mom gets my attention, as she always does.

Yet that Winter, she's all any man could want: smart and silky with
mysterious eyes that seem to say, "With our help, you men will make it
just fine." No man bashing in this film, just recognition that communal
charity and mutual respect will win the day.

Something about this Disneyesque, retro children's adventure makes me
happy.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was enjoyed by everyone in my family yesterday. My husband,
10 year old daughter and 12 year old son all fell in love with the
characters in this movie. Not only does it have great actors, but it is
chalk full of great messages; lots of lessons to be learned here. You
will not be disappointed! Take your family, knowing you won't have to
cringe due to, even a hint of, profanity or pornography. You can sit
back, relax, laugh and learn while you enjoy a story that is not just
about a dolphin, but about families who realize that nothing is
impossible,even when faced with adversities that seem hopeless. Never
give up!
<|_=00=_|>
The story of Dolphin Tale is very inspirational and uplifting. It
teaches us not to give up when all seems hopeless. Winter lost her tail
and the aquarium was poised to close down due to financial issues.
After the aquarium exhausted all possible options, they had to sell the
aquarium, but no other centres are willing to accept Winter. The last
option they have was to put her down peacefully. Despite the
hopelessness, young Sawyer Nelson (played by Nathan Gamble) refuses to
give up. After witnessing a mother and her little girl who has only one
leg were willing to drive hours up from out of town just to see Winter,
Sawyer came up with a brilliant plan that can save this handicapped
dolphin. Although Sawyer failed many of his school subjects, he is
indeed brilliant. His mom was surprised by his knowledge, commitment
and intelligence, brought forth by what he was interested in.

There are many lessons that we can take from Dolphin Tale. One of the
many lessons is that children who may not seem bright at first, just
needs to find a subject of interest to them in order to display their
intelligence. Moreover, miracles do happen, but sometimes we need to
persevere long enough and never give up before we are able to see it
happen. Dolphin Tale teaches us that there is hope even when all seems
hopeless.

Dolphin Tale neither has a typical villain nor a big climax. It is
simply an inspirational movie that I find to be emotional, entertaining
and captivating. It is children friendly and excellent for the whole
family to watch. I was astounded by this movie and I highly encourage
everyone to watch it. The actors and actresses truly deliver. Moreover,
I am once again dazzled by Gamble's acting as he brilliantly portrays
the character of Sawyer Nelson. I look forward to his future projects
and I believe he will continue to rise in the film industry.
<|_=00=_|>
We have been visiting Winter for years. She is very special and this
movie certainly captures her amazing spirit. With all the big names in
this movie, Winter is a star. This movie was sweet and fun. I am easily
bored by kids movies but this one kept me entertained and wanting more.
My 10 year old who wears a prosthesis LOVED this movie. Winter has
helped her understand she is not alone and Winter's "nothing's going to
stop me" attitude is fully displayed.

I was concerned how my 13 year old son would like the movie. It's hard
to impress him these days. But he loved it!! He said he can't wait to
see it again! Definitely is a movie that is worth seeing in the
theater. I also think this movie is totally worth the 3D money! The 3D
was REALLY fun!!
