
As a rule, I prefer foreign movies to American ones. They just
generally have much better plotting and character development. I
suppose when you can't just throw cubic dollars against the wall and
see what sticks, you actually have to think. 

With that said, this film, while populated by interesting characters
and situations, was very slow. It was quite light, fun and
entertaining, but it just dragged a bit too much for my tastes, and I'm
a significantly more patient viewer than most. Also, since I'm not
Mexican, I know that I missed a lot of references and jokes.

Overall, I don't really regret watching this, but I wouldn't want to
watch movies that develop this slowly too often.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film upon the recommendation of my friend and colleague at
the university where we work. I was not really expecting that much from
this film, as I had never heard of it. It is a very good comedy.

This movie leaves no doubt as to what it wants to be from the very
first scene. The two main characters(Omar Chaparro and Adrian Uribe) do
a good job of playing off of each other, and mesh well together.

There are several other characters that are also developed very well,
most notably the character of the policeman played by Hector Suárez
that chases the two main protagonists throughout the film, from México
DF to the Mexican state of Durango.

This film has a good soundtrack also, especially "¿Qué más da?"(Who
cares?) performed by a group called Kinky.

This film is very recommended if you are looking for a good slapstick
type film. I saw it on You Tube for free without English subtitles,
then I bought the DVD on Amazon, which had the subtitles.

If you are a teacher looking for a good Spanish language film for
class, this works well, as it is not too long. There is a lot of
profanity, so it may be better suited for a university level class. I
do not recall any nudity though.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is outrageous, the plot as already said in another review is
full of holes. The acting skills of the main characters are almost none
and seriously the plot sucks as much as possible.This is supposed to
make me laugh but I just felt bad for the director, it was painful to
watch it. I just created my IMDb account to post a bad review for this
movie. I just wanted to watch a Mexican movie and this came up in
netflix, I expected a not so awesome movie but something to chill out
and easy going but what I got was a horrible experience that made me
cry my eyes out of disappointment. I would not recommend this movie
even for learning Spanish, boring as hell. Please avoid it as possible
and tell everyone to stay away of it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just a series of clichéd nonsense plain dumb unfunny
scenes trying to tell a completely plot hole riddled story. There is
nothing new or original that this movie brings on the table.

The two lead characters are quite annoying. You can not really care too
much about what happens to them, what they say or think. I was waiting
for them to get killed after just minutes into the movie. The feeling
did not change while watching the whole film and unfortunately, you can
tell their lack of acting skills. They are so bad that you get a sad
feeling for the producers.

Story wise, it seems the movie tried to have some degree of social and
political undertones, but it fails miserably at delivering that. The
bad comedy and bad acting are so distracting that every sociological or
political hint gets completely overseen. As a viewer you will be so
astonished as to how bad a movie can get to pay attention to whatever
social criticism message the movie could ever try to deliver.

I really cant find anything remotely commendable about this movie. If
you have not watched it, avoid this movie like the plague; watching
paint dry would be more amusing.
