
Maggie (A great, if slightly manic performance from Leslie Easterbrook,
aka Callahan from Police Academy!) is a god fearing Christian woman,
married to Hank (A nicely done cameo from Kane Hodder). When their
marriage fails, due to Maggie's uncompromising fire and brimstone style
views, Maggie becomes bitter, resentful and beset with financial woes.
Taking to the drink, she begins endlessly watching the public access TV
show of the Cowboy Preacher (JD Hart), who comes to visit at times.
Spare the rod and spoil the child, the family must stick together, is
what the cowboy preaches from Maggie's TV.

As the financial difficulties worsen, Maggie begins to fancy she can
converse with God, and that her children should pull together, and chip
in anyway they can. If that means doing things they normally wouldn't
do, then so be it. And if any dissent ensues, well, Maggie is more than
willing to dispense her own quite vicious brand of discipline, because
spare the rod, and spoil the child, after all...

The Afflicted is a well shot and well acted horror, with good
performances all around, from a nice cameo from Hodder to an excellent
(if again, slightly ott) performance from Easterbrook.

It's also pretty grim, with a bleak tone, and will probably inevitably
draw comparisons with The Girl Next Door. However, my main beef with
this was that it requires serious suspension of disbelief, and I'm
actually wondering if it really is based on a true story as it claims
or if this is just a marketing ploy, the way Wolf Creek was supposedly
based on a true story, when in reality it was simply loosely influenced
by a number of true life cases.

The kids, who are all between 17 and 18, one of them a guy, have ample
opportunity throughout the film (at least by default anyway) to either
escape, report or even overpower Easterbrook, yet don't. This detracts
from any tension, and makes it hard to take the whole thing seriously.
Most if not all of the supporting characters outside the family are
stereotypical rednecks, and towards the end, you're just kinda waiting
for things to finish.

The Afflicted isn't precisely a bad film, it's more of a flawed one,
but overall, I found it neither stand out or substandard. It just
failed to leave a lasting impression on me, well made and well acted
that it was. 5/10 probably worth a look actually, to make one's own
mind up.
<|_=00=_|>
It took me about 45 minutes into the movie before I realized that this
movie was very loosely based on the life of Theresa Knorr and the
horrors she inflicted upon her children. I read the true crime book
"Whatever mother says" a few years ago and that was hands down the most
awful real life story I have ever read in my life. This movie does not
even begin to come close to the book. After watching this horrible
effort of a movie, I realized that the unspeakable acts of Theresa
Knorr cannot be turned into a good movie. If you want the know the real
story, you should read the book. It is completely different, apart from
a few of the horrors shown in the movie, but the book is actually a
hundred times worse and more painful. Read it to educate yourself in
the world of true crime, but be prepared for a disgusting ride into
reality.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this film! Don't get me wrong... it's not enjoyable or
an easy film to watch but I highly respect how disturbing and
depressing this film was. I originally wanted to watch it on Netflix
because I saw Leslie Easterbrook is in it (I'm a big fan) and what I
found was a riveting, well-performed thriller. Some elements of the
film were a bit hard to believe but all in all I wasn't disappointed.
If anyone gives this movie a lousy rating just for being disturbing
than they don't understand that it was supposed to be disturbing. This
isn't a happy family film. In fact, it's a hopeless film all the way
through. There's no playing with emotions here. This is a heartless
story about a human monster.
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty enjoyable movie overall. The story is interesting enough and the
cinematography is actually pretty good overall, especially considering
the budget. The acting is well above average in this budget range, Kane
Hodder makes an interesting appearance in essentially a cameo role, it
would of been nice to expand more on the back story and give him more
screen time but that might of been a decision made for budget reasons.
The Good Overall acting - Leslie Easterbrook was really good when she
wasn't way over the top, all in all a real solid performance the type
that should bring her a lot more opportunities. J.D. Hart was
fantastic, again some of the script called for him to be over the top
but he really did a great job. Michele Grey and Sims Holland both did a
great job with very challenging rolls, I expect to see more work from
them in the future. Cinematography - overall very good, some real nice
shots, most of the film is visually interesting. Some of the hand-held
was a bit to choppy for my taste, but that's a taste issues more than
anything else, overall great job. Story - the story itself is
interesting. The Not so Good Nothing that will ruin the movie
experience but a couple glaring problems. The Whys - why they didn't
take action sooner or attempt to do something will baffle you, you
might even find yourself yelling instructions at the TV as I did. More
pre-production time ironing out the whys would of gone a long way. More
back story - so we care more, are more invested in the characters and
have a better idea of what caused everything. Again this may of been a
matter of the budget restraints with some of the actors and time to
shoot. All in all a good movie, a pleasant Netflix find for me. Might
not be something you would watch more than once but definitely worth
your time the first time around.
<|_=00=_|>
From my experience, a lot of the reviewers on IMDb can never be
pleased! I have seen amazing movies like "The Afflicted" suffer the
wrath of those who want to turn a blind eye to reality. 

The subject matter of "The Afflicted" is that of a true story, and this
movie is an excellent depiction of what really happens! Unlike many
other movies, this movie causes the viewer to actually feel something.
Even if those feelings are anger, remorse, and disgust, the movie has
still gripped your attention and caused an emotion. Isn't that what
makes a movie successful? Not every movie should show lovers dancing in
fields or show zoo animals bonding with humans. A happily ever after
ending does not constitute an excellent movie. 

America needs to grow up! A true story of bad parenting should be rated
higher than Toy Story! This movie reminds us to be more aware of our
surroundings instead of watching "feel-good movies" that are dumbing us
down! Hollywood has spoiled us with movies of redemption, and victory,
and above all else, fantasy.
<|_=00=_|>
loosely based ( and I mean very loosely) on Theresa Knorr's story, this
film is just a depressing , idiot plot mess. There are several times
during the movie the children have opportunities to fight back, and
even overpower the abusive mother. But they never do, because if that
happened the story would be over. Characters do things in this cat box
of a film JUST BECAUSE the writer wanted them to. The resolution of the
story also feels tacked on. The writer/ director spends lot of time
showing the girls being tortured, killed and even raped, but the
resolution happens in the very last 10 minutes of this thing. I want
the hour and 23 minutes of my life back that was wasted watching this.
<|_=00=_|>
A story of incomprehensible abuse delivered by an explosively violent
mother of four. Journey through the mind of a child that experiences a
living hell, defined and defended by the twisted religious beliefs of
her mother.

Leslie Easterbrook is a crazy mother, a role she takes to heart, and
had it not been in an otherwise disposable movie, she would have been
receiving wide praise for her performance here. She is, we see, a
consummate professional.

It is nice to see Kane Hodder without a mask (or even gloves to hide
the burns) and some decent lines. His acting is never fully
appreciated, and this film is a good example of his ability to shine.
If only his role was bigger.
<|_=00=_|>
My dear friend Kayla challenged me with this movie and I accepted. I
don't regret watching it, but it truly is a disgusting movie. The
things that "Mother" Maggie does are beyond horrific and unimaginable.
The children fear her- no...no, it's beyond fear. They're in sheer
terror. I'm disgusted with the fact that these kinds of movies intrigue
me, but this one was far too much for my psyche. If you can, please try
to avoid watching this. The things that are depicted in this film are
unbelievably cruel. I was even on the verge of tears at one part. And
that was only in one of the beginning scenes. So all in all, I give the
movie 2 stars. Sorry but, the acting was the only thing I really liked.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing truth-telling. The scene where that mother force-feeds her
daughter about quarter of an hour into the opening is how I have
actually witnessed people talk in America. It is horrifying having to
remember being told to be thankful for the food I ate there because it
was provided for by them to me. Apparently before immigrating I had no
food at all, so this and other mother-America figures would lay things
out for my plain view and enlighten me on how it's set up to be. This
happens on numerous occasions and I can see why scenes of this film
make squeamish reviewers wince.

It is not mockery, this movie is accurate depiction of how folks grow
up to be in the country of setting. It should be in "educational"
rather than "horror".
<|_=00=_|>
That was about all it did. Made me mad. I seriously fast forwarded
after Carla was killed because I just wanted to see the mom beat. But
during the movie, I didn't understand how 4 teenagers wouldn't fight
back more. At least after Cathy was shot. I feel like natural instinct
would be to do everything to save your sister. And they were all old
enough to realize that there is no way she could take down even 2 of
them if they stuck together. It was overall a decent movie acting and
plot, but it just makes you mad and sick. Child abuse is disgusting.
The movie definitely portrayed it well, I just think the whole
situation is kind of far-stretched. I'm sure it has happened, it just
seems to me that it would be more likely of younger children or
children who grew up with it. The movie made it seem like she had a
sudden change so the kids knew the difference. Also, if a kid goes to a
guidance counselor bawling, they don't take the parents word lol
