
Far from the best or worst picture of the year, W.E. is certainly the
most intriguing. It tells the story of Wallis Simpson (Andrea
Riseborough) and the New York housewife who is obsessed with her in
1998 (played by Abbie Cornish). This is not a straightforward
historical film, nor is it trying to be. Instead, the film is a
mediation on celebrity, history and the way people search in those
realms for meaning in their own lives. For example, Wally in 1998 is
trapped in a loveless marriage where she is virtually ignored by
everyone, so she imagines Wallis as utterly fabulous, and adored by the
man who abdicated for her. "What are you thinking about?" she is asked
at one point. She responds, "What it must feel like to be loved that
much". Madonna hits that nail right on its head, and this premise is
the reason she can't tell the story from a straight historical
perspective--celebrities really only exist in our heads. Madonna likely
knows this better than anyone. For this reason, Wally waves away her
idols alleged Nazi sympathies and the possibility that she and Edward's
marriage was not all that it seemed, because in New York in 1998, she
needs to believe that love can be eternal. In this context, the much
maligned scenes in which Wallis appears to Wally to give advice make
perfect sense. All celebrities and historical figures really are
figments of our imaginations anyway.

In the end, the theme is that people should not obsess over
celebrities, but should "get a life" of their own. This brings us to
the films one serious downfall. The audience is forced to spend more
than half the movie with Wally, who is beyond boring and unsympathetic.
This can be blamed on the script and the performance by Abbie Cornish,
who never seems to do any more than pose and read lines. The character
was never believable or engaging, and the script must resort to over
the top melodrama to move her story along. In short, the 1998 storyline
is a mess, and you'd think that a film whose premise is that
celebrity-obsessed people need to get a life would have known better
than to focus on an obsessed fan with no life.

That said, everything with Wallis is spot on, better even than anything
found in "The King's Speech" (2010). Andrea Riseborough, who plays
Wallis accomplishes in a single scene what Abbie Cornish couldn't in
all of the movie. She makes us admire and care for the woman she's
playing. She has a charisma (much like the director herself) that
guarantees the indulgence of the audience. She is going to be naughty,
and we're going to love her for it.

And thus you have the most interesting movie of the year: half
masterpiece, half slog. If the 1931 storyline had been stretched out to
90 minutes, and the 1998 one reduced to 10 or 15, this would have been
one of the best films of the year. As it is, it a tremendous curiosity.

I must mention, however, the best scene in the movie, featuring an
elderly Wallis and a dying Edward. I shan't give it away except to say
that it captures perfectly both the sweetness of enduring love and the
sadness, and inevitability of age and death. Where I was laughing
derisively at the previous scene, this one had me in tears before it
was through. Like I said, a very interesting experience.

I have refrained from mentioning its superstar director, because most
critics can't seem to see past their feelings about her as a person.
Still, I can't help but note that Madonna is vastly better suited to
depict the lifestyles of the rich and fabulous, than the dreary
doldrums of us common-folk.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not exactly sure what I expected from Madonna's latest film as a
director, but I convinced myself to go into it with an open mind. I
ended up being impressed in every way. Madonna has a great vision. The
film is visually stunning, and the performances are all convincing and
powerful, though never over-the-top as might have been expected.
Madonna has put together a great screenplay with just the right
emotional highlights, and then she executes the overall picture in the
best way possible. On the heels of the success of "The King's Speech,"
I think people will really love getting to see see the other side of
the story. I truly hope people give this movie a chance. It is a
diamond in the rough.
<|_=00=_|>
"W.E." had one hell of an uphill battle. Not only is it a period piece,
but the film is also written and directed by the one woman in the world
that makes people pass judgement before even experiencing her work.
That woman is Madonna.

The film tells the tale of the infamously scandalous affair of King
Edward VIII (aka David) and Wallis Simpson for whom, in the 1930s, he
gave up everything for, even abdicating the throne of England. Being a
twice-divorced American, Wallis Simpson was a woman the monarchy would
never accept, and because of that, David left everything behind for
love. The film concurrently takes us back to 1998 and Wally Winsthrop,
a woman who was named after Ms. Simpson by her Wallis-obsessed mother
and who also finds herself in a marriage that is not living up to the
magic she expected it to be, a fact which is brought more to life by
the flirtations of a Russian security guard she encounters at an
auction of the Windsor Estate at Sotheby's.

I can honestly say that, despite being an enormous fan of most of
Madonna's artistic endeavours, I was not sure how this film would play
out. But you know what? It's a good film. First of all, it takes the
perspective of Wallis Simpson in telling the first story, which goes
against the norm. Secondly, the interweaving of the two completely
different time periods is extremely well done, incredibly edited, and
manages to keeps you invested in both stories equally. And most
surprisingly, it was an entertaining history lesson: Not only do you
learn of this hugely publicized affair but the film, in a way, is
almost like a prequel to last year's powerhouse, "The King's Speech,"
as that film focuses on Bertie, David's brother, who had to take over
the throne once David renounced it.

The film is not perfect, but as Madonna's second attempt at directing,
you have to give her credit. Something many critics just refuse to do.
No, the script is far from genius, but it's far from awful. The film is
visually beautiful to watch and the integration of regular filming and
documentary-style graininess makes for an interesting watch. Then there
is the exquisite costumes for which this film is nominated for an
Academy Award...and has a good chance at winning. And the performances,
all of which are good. Andrea Risborough ("Made in Dagenham," "Happy Go
Lucky") gives a strong turn, if not slightly off kilter at times, as
Wallis Simpson. James D'Arcy is at times whimsical yet stoic as the
terribly handsome King Edward. Abbie Cornish ("Limitless") is close to
heartbreaking as the suffering Wally Winthrop and Richard Coyle
("Prince of Persia") gives a great performance as Wally's emotionally
absent husband. And then there is Oscar Isaac, also in the
Oscar-nominated "Drive," as the incredibly handsome and sweet Russian
who perks up each time Wally is around.

No, "W.E." is not brilliant, but it's far better than you might expect,
Madonna proving to be a far better director than anyone might give her
credit for. And if you just love her for her music, the Golden-Globe
winning "Masterpiece" plays along the closing credits. Although I have
always preferred her musical endeavours over her cinematic attempts,
this attempt is one she can definitely be proud of.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not be revealing any spoilers. I just want to highlight the fact
that I can now confirm for myself that critics are jaded and they will
write off anything Madonna does in the film business. That is not to
say most of her previous works weren't dismal at best, but I always
felt they weren't as bad as critics bashed. 

However, we're here to discuss W.E. A film that Madonna does not star
in and that may just be the brilliance of it all. I screened it last
night after winning a contest and I must say, as a Madonna fan, I
walked in with the assumption that I wouldn't like the movie but I
would search for little things that I could enjoy and emphasize those
things. That had to be the last thing in the world I did once the film
commenced. Even in the same room with Madonna and other fashionistas,
celebrities and artists, I completely forgot where I was and I soon
found myself captivated by the story.

The intertwining of the old and new, historical loosely based romance
with a modern romance, music old and new was brilliantly executed by
Madonna. The film really emphasized how the general public scrutinize
public figures and demonize others without a clear understanding of who
they are and how politics can destroy the chance of love and how King
Edward would ultimately not have that.

Intertwined with the modern tale of a New York City woman who's
fascinated by the story, there are flashbacks that go through the
delicate history of the royal family in the particular time that Wallis
Simpson, then married, met King Edward.. It is not a fact-by-fact
story. It is an attempt to take a look at things from a different
perspective because after all there are two sides to every story, if
not more than two sides. 

Although set design, location and costume design were unbelievable, I
will not speak further on it because critics said that that was the
only thing good about the film so I'll let that speak for itself.

Every character was played and executed brilliantly and it was just a
captivating story from beginning to end. I take pride in my love for
Madonna but I also take pride in my love for film and I walked in
knowing I wouldn't lie to myself. If I liked it, I liked it. If I loved
it, then so be it. If I hated it, oh well. 

Fortunately, I found that everyone in the audience was pleasantly
surprised, almost as if they were cheering on the fact that it will be
seen for what it is. That no one has to defend it. Leave it to the
film-goer to make that desicion.

The camera work was beautiful, slow but intermixed with a haunting
score and pivotal performances. I really hope people watch it with an
open mind and forget Madonna directed it. At least until the credits
roll and her new song Masterpiece begins and you remember why we love
Madonna in the first place. Her music is profound and the song
Masterpiece is a beautiful closer to the film.

After the film, everyone was energized and the buzz carried out into
the halls where people stood discussing the film. I can't wait to
re-watch it with my friends on Friday for its limited release and then
once more at opening night on February 3rd.

I will be buying this film for my DVD collection. It's worth it and
that's more than I thought I'd ever say about it.

***1/2(out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
The much maligned, brief theatrical film by Madonna - W.E. - fairs
better on the small screen than it likely did in the movie houses. The
stories are bifurcated, each one resembling a television creation - one
a docudrama biopic, the other a contemporary soap opera. That Madonna,
who directed and wrote the screenplay with Alek Keshishian, decided to
mix the two stories is a bit daring but in some ways it works very
well. In other ways the parallel stories seem like time traveling cars
on the same highway that never quite travel at the same speed or
quality.

The film mixes the notorious affair between King Edward VIII and
American divorcée Wallis Simpson with a contemporary romance between a
married woman and a Russian security guard. The time is 1998 and at an
auction of the estate of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor unhappily
married ex-Sotheby employee Wally Winthrop (Abbie Cornish) becomes
obsessed by their historic love story. Her own marriage to womanizing,
abusive psychiatrist William (Richard Coyle) undermines her feelings of
worth and as she learns more about the sacrifices involved in the
famous affair, she gains her own courage to find happiness.

The film flips back and forth between the present and the 1930s and it
is the historical aspect of the film that is almost flawless. We get to
know Wallis Simpson (in a brilliant portrayal by Andrea Riseborough)
and understand her failed first two marriages (at the time we meet her
she is still married to Ernest Simpson played by David Harbour), and
see the American sizzle that made her the talk of England. When Wallis
wrangles her way to meet Prince Edward, better known as David, (James
D'Arcy) there is a chemistry that develops to the point of passion and
ultimately leads to Wallis divorcing Ernest to marry Edward - a deed
that leads to Edward's abdication of the throne for 'the woman I love',
which he had assumed when King George V (James Fox) dies, to his
stammering brother Bertie (Laurence Fox) and his caustic wife Elizabeth
(Natalie Dormer). The paparazzi make their life miserable and the
couple is not allowed to return to England until Edward dies, with the
faithful Wallis supportively by his side through 36 years of marriage.

Wally - meanwhile - longs to be pregnant but sustains such abuse from
William that she ultimately yields to the loving friendship the auction
house Russian security guard Evgeni (Oscar Isaac) and begins her life
again. The two stories are connected by Wally's obsession with the
royal couple's notorious affair and at auction's end she is given
access to private letters between Wallis and Edward that have been in
the possession of Mohamed Al-Fayed (Haluk Bilginer) - a tacked on
ending that feels ill at ease and redundant.

Everyone connected t the biopic angle of this film is excellent and
Madonna shows that she knows how to direct affairs of the heart in a
royal situation very well indeed. Both Andrea Riseborough and James
D'Arcy are superb and the costumes and music and cinematography of this
historical portion are exceptionally well done. Though the idea of the
contemporary sluggish story is reasonable, Abbie Cornish seems
uncomfortable with the script: Oscar Isaac shines as her new love. In
all the film, though spotty, has merit and it not a bad debut for
Madonna as director. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a fan of Madonna, her music and previous film stints do not do
it for me.But I bear the greatest respect for her, she has gone where
angels fear to tread,she is a pioneer of women, and she makes me proud
to be one. I do not understand why this movie got such bad reviews. I
found it well directed, casted and filmed. It is wildly romantic and
thoroughly worth your time. The costumes are stunning and the dialogue
intriguing. Perhaps all the reviewers with negative comments were male?
It has happened before, but this is no "chick flick". My husband really
enjoyed it also. Well he is in touch with his feminine side, but like
Madonna he has balls the size of butternuts
<|_=00=_|>
Having finally opened in the UK, I've now had the opportunity to watch
'W.E.', having followed its coverage to this point with interest. I
can't, in all honestly, say that this is a good movie. I'll back the
common positives and reiterate that it looks amazing and Andrea
Riseborough is wonderful in it. The score, while lovely, is over-
powering at times - Madonna is obviously terrified of silence!

I went with the movie quite happily for the first hour. The Wallis and
Edward scenes are effective (I thought the dizzying/choppy camera work
worked really well contrasting with the vintage images) and reminded me
quite a bit of Stephen Fry's movie "Bright Young Things". But they had
absolutely zero dramatic tension. Largely, this was due to the fact
that they weren't chronological, but also it was because (to my horror)
they almost seemed there to serve the modern day story, rather than
vice versa.

And as for those modern day parts ... well ... Firstly, I'll say that I
didn't think the concept was bad and it had potential. However, they
needed to be trimmed by about three quarters. Christ, did they ever go
on. The dialogue was serviceable, at best, and toe-curling at worst.
The character of Wally was about as engaging as a paper clip and that
was largely due to Abby Cornish's lifeless performance. Honestly, I
wanted to scream at the screen, "Stop whispering all the time and TALK,
woman!" That said, if the movie had only cut to these scenes every so
often and used them as well-timed interjections, rather than as a story
worthy of screen time in their own right, it would have been more
bearable. 

The film really lost me in the second hour when I realised it had used
up all its party tricks and it was obvious where it was going. (And,
no, I don't mean the Wallis/Edward story arch, but how it was going to
contrast the two tales, and what the oh-so-obvious climax was going to
be.) By the end, I couldn't wait for it to finish. 

There are some lovely scenes, though, and several nice touches
throughout. But while the infamous 'Pretty Vacant' sequence is probably
trying to say profound things about Wallis having a punk spirit, it
feels rather out of place. (It's fun, though, I'll give it that.) 

So, really, it's nowhere near the one star disaster many are claiming.
And I, genuinely, can't see why anyone could charge it would be, other
than to appear 'cool' to knock Madge. It's got too much going for it,
for that.

But the reason I said 'semi-noble failure' is because, while I think it
had some ambition, it's indulgent to a fault. At least twenty minutes
of this movie are taken up by Abby Cornish wandering around Sothebys,
exchanging in vacant platitudes with the Russian security guard, or
looking blandly at something we're told should be exciting by the
volume of the score. And, I guess, the blame for including such
non-interesting stuff must lie with the movie's director.
<|_=00=_|>
W.E. is one of three biopics I have seen this year, after The Iron Lady
and J Edgar. Of the three I think W.E. is probably the best, but all
three tread the path of the mediocre. What W.E. gets right is Wallis
Simpson, Riseborough is fantastic in the lead role and has great
chemistry with James D'Arcy. The biggest problem with the film is the
the second tier of the romance with Abbie Cornish's Wally Winthrop,
though the romance picks up momentum around the one hour mark, it slows
down the pace of the Wallis Simpson segments.

The script has high and low notes, the romance at times is reduced
sappiness, but these are forgivable even when they are at there worst.
What is probably the biggest weakness in W.E. is the often used close
up hand held camera shots. The occasional one works nicely, but these
shots are put in far too often and take you out of the story. In most
cases the camera work could have been more simplistic, it too often
feels erratic which isn't good in the more tender moments of the film.

The music in W.E. is beautiful and the addition of "Masterpiece" in the
credits is a lovely song to go side by side with the film. However
sometimes the music is a little over powering, once again just a case
of less is more. The much discussed and derided scene with Wallis
dancing the Charleston with a tribesman to The Sex Pistols "pretty
Vacant", I really liked. I felt the scene was a fun and good way to
show how frivolous the character could be, using the modern day Wally's
imagination to keep the scene from feeling alien.

Undoubtedly the best part of W.E. is the costume and lighting. The
attention to detail in this department is incredible. Every costume
looks stunning and is meticulously put together down to the nearest
diamond, and the lighting makes the landscapes almost feel like
paintings it really is stunning.

All in all W.E. is a great attempt from Madonna to craft a stunning
looking film, though the storytelling can be muddled and the film takes
around 40 minutes to really get going, its once again forgivable.
Historical inaccuracies put aside would have made this film a 7, but
not exploring the Nazi element could have made this so much more
interesting. The negative reviews of this film aren't looking at it
from fair perspective and anyone with half a brain can see though not
amazing, W.E. is at least half decent and for a directors second film
pretty damn good.
<|_=00=_|>
It's incredible to believe that this is the first major film Madonna
has directed - and it's a real labour of love. 3 years have been spent
making the movie and all the effort and hard work is right there in
front of your eyes when you watch it.

An amazing story and stunning performances - particularly from Andrea
Riseborough as Wallis Simpson.

The cinematography is a visual feast for the eyes and the costumes are
wonderful. The piano led soundtrack is also another nice touch. I can
still hear it playing in my ears now! It's ultimately a feminist
statement about love and power. The entire production is stunning and
Madonna's touch can be felt all over it.
