
... This is how to make a vampire film.

I find it difficult to fault this film. The plot is intelligent and
engaging. No one is entirely black or white. The heroes are flawed and
complicated, the villains, for the most part, have motivation and even
sympathy. I found myself rooting for the murderous, vampiric prostitute
as much for the innocent girl trapped into releasing those tired of
life.

It's really two films, one set 200 hundred years ago, one in the
present time, with many of the same characters and the same location,
Hastings, once a fishing village, now a tired seaside resort.

The actors are very good, particularly the leads. As a resident of SE
England, I recognised many of the locations. The ending was perhaps a
little predictable, but still satisfying.

Don't go see this if you like your vampires to sparkle, but if you
liked Let The Right One In and gritty drama, go watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the course of five years I think it's safe to say the reputation
of vampires has been well and truly tarnished. Instead of being blood
sucking beasts, audiences seem more interested in watching them make
love and glisten in the sunlight, however that's were director Neil
Jordan steps in. Admittedly Byzantium isn't the most traditional
vampire movie, but that's not a problem, because the end result is a
fresh, innovative take on the creatures that may have installed some
credibility in the post Twilight era.

Essentially the main-plot of Byzantium follows the mother and daughter
duo of Gemma Arterton and Saoirse Ronan. The two continuously move from
location to location due to them having to hide their secret that
no-one is aware of, however upon seeking refuge at a rundown coastal
area, their secret is uncovered, which results in their past calling
for blood.

Now as I have said, in the last few years vampires have been getting a
hard time. Whenever you see or hear of vampires these days, the first
thing that usually comes to mind is that of Robert Pattison. Personally
I am not a fan of the Twilight movies and I have to confess I was quite
sceptical going into Byzantium, due to the supposed vampire themes.
However, I am happy to report that Byzantium is an original, different
and genuinely great movie that I would regard as one of my favourite
films of the year so far.

The films concept is in my opinion superb. As soon as the film began I
was invested. One thing that I liked in particular was that the film
showcased rarely a dull moment. It is very well paced and the story is
just great, with some rather intriguing flashback sequences being
utilised brilliantly to connect all the dots.

Aside from being very well written, the films' setting is another
factor as to what makes it so enjoyable. Personally I felt that the
run-down coastal setting was just superb. Not only because it sets the
tone and feel of the movie, but it just gave it that added creepiness
that you would expect from a movie like this.

The cinematography is very good and in terms of visuals I think the
film was one of the best looking that I have seen in a long time.
Understandably the mood is very dark and occasionally quite Gothic, but
again, not only is the seaside primitive in establishing that, some of
the other locations really are just as good.

Aside from Jordan's fantastic direction, the thing I liked most about
Byzantium was the acting from its two leading ladies. Beginning with
Saoirse Ronan, as we all know she is a fantastic young actress who very
rarely fails to come up with the goods. In this movie she is playing
quite a reserved, intellectual who is quiet but intriguing nonetheless,
whereas her on screen mother portrayed by Gemma Arterton is the exact
opposite. Now I think it would be unfair to compare the two because
although they are both playing vampires, they are very different
characters to say the least. There's no two ways around it, Ronan is
genuinely great in this movie, but I thought the real star of the show
was Gemma Arterton, who I felt was absolutely fantastic. In my opinion
Arterton showed a very different side to her normal self in this movie.
Whilst I wouldn't go as far as saying the role was too demanding, I
have never seen her play a part like this, and honestly I think she
should do it more often, because it has shown a massive amount of
versatility on her part.

In terms of chemistry Ronan and Arterton work wonders on screen and if
it wasn't for their performances I honestly think that this movie would
have panned out very differently. So in terms of casting I think it's a
job well done.

This really isn't the type of film that you're going to forget in a
hurry. Personally I could watch it again and that really is saying
something, as I rarely watch something more than once, however with
that being said one final thing that I would like to touch upon would
be the musical score.

Again this was another key factor in establishing the look and feel of
the film and it really worked. This is a rare movie where everything
just blends simultaneously and for that reason alone I most certainly
feel it's worth investing two hours in.

Byzantium is a great movie that really makes me feel passionate as a
critic. In a year where films have been slightly hit and miss, this
film is definitely a hit. It has a great vision and knows exactly what
it wants to be. Supported by two stand out performances this is
British-Irish film-making at its near best and as I stated it is one of
my favourite films of the year so far.

8.5/10 

Check out my website: www.jacks-reviews.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Although not well advertised and distributed, this movie actually is a
piece of true art. It returns to the roots of the vampire genre, but
unlike Twilight or the more action-oriented alternatives, this one has
a very adult take on it.

Although it has a fair share of action and blood, this movie really is
not for those who expect exciting, thrilling and spectacular fight
scenes. More like Interview With a Vampire, the movie concentrates a
lot more on understanding these beings. Throwing some of the vampire's
newborn traits away (sparkling in the sunlight eh?) and turning them
into "Sucrient"-s, the movie revolves around how these creatures find
their means of survival and how they deal with the price they pay for
it.

Many critics say that the movie is too long and slow paced, which is
true, but that's actually one of the reasons what makes it work. The
scenes, the music, the characters all give you a dark, twisted,
gripping and uncertain feeling. The slow-pacedness of the movie adds
the sense of being lost, the sense of being empty to all of it.. which
might make you uneasy, but by the end you will realize this is how the
characters themselves feel like. You are made to feel uneasy, because
it's necessary to be able to understand them.

...and although there are several quite good acting performances in
Byzantium, by "them" I now think about Clara (Gemma Arterton) and
Eleanor (Saoirse Ronan). Their characters are very different, but are
also very interesting and more importantly: very well played. Saoirse
Ronan does a perfect job in giving you the Eleanor whom you both
understand and don't understand at the same time, an Eleanor whom you
love and still are afraid of. Then there's Gemma Arterton who brings
her best performance ever to the screen, giving you a cruel, wicked and
wretched Clara who soon turns out to be so much more than what they
call her...

There are quite a few vampire stories out there already, yet Byzantium
achieves to be a unique pearl among all of them. Its dark feeling,
interesting characters and slow storytelling do require a specific
audience - people who like to listen and be mesmerized. If you feel
like one, Byzantium is a must-see for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just seen this film as part of the famous Bridport Film Festival
called "From page to screen". It features films that have been adapted
from books and are very often accompanied, either before or after the
screening, by a question and answer session with either the Director,
Producer or Author etc. Bridport is in the county of Dorsetshire in the
United Kingdom. This pre-release screening of Byzantium was enhanced by
a very informative Q&A with the Producer Stephen Woolley. If you are
expecting fangs, crucifixes, coffins and garlic prepare to be
surprised! These vampires are a new take on a familiar theme. Much of
the film is shot on location in the seaside town of Hastings which
gives it a fabulously grungy and stark atmosphere. I have to admit that
I didn't really want to go and see "another" vampire film. Believe me
when I say that this is not just "another" vampire film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie just rocked me. I expected the usual cheesy horror movie.

Lots of blood and of course the fangs.

What I found was a work of art; The richness of the characters and
their credibility was hard to fault. The storyline,and of course there
was the music.

The atmosphere was enchanting. A work of art; must see this movie. I
have seen a few movies in my life, but I do not recall watching them
repeatedly.

I cannot put my finger on it, but I suppose this movie just got me. 

A
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film as part of the Brussels International Fantastic film
festival 2013 (BIFFF), where it was the main course of the opening
ceremony, featuring director Neil Jordan as the guest of honor. It was
a very unusual opening night (I say this as an experienced film
festival visitor): we had to wait outside the venue for a very long
time (for reasons unknown), access control was sketchy (to say the
least), the audience was very noisy (especially in the beginning, but
reduced considerably once the story in the film took off), and there
were several people in obvious disguise (a priest, a soldier, and many
others) whose task it seemed to entertain the public before the actual
event started. At last, we (over 2000) found our places and sat through
obligatory speeches (intermixing french and dutch, while the other
language appeared as subtitles on screen), mentioning all sponsors
(accompanied by boo's and/or applause from the audience), handing over
an award for Neil Jordan and knighting him in the order of the Raven,
and finally the screening of Byzantium what it was we all were waiting
for.

The category labels "Horror, Vampire" did me hesitate somewhat
beforehand. But I must admit, after all, that the net result did not
disappoint, at the same time demonstrating how difficult it is to
categorize a movie in an informative way. In his short introduction
(ultra short, not by his fault), director Neil Jordan assured us that
this vampire film was "different", and his words proved to be very
true. The vampires we saw here could live normal lives in broad
daylight, and even were visible in a mirror. All the standard things we
see in middle-of-the-road vampire movies, were avoided. The film makers
were right in this, since the story can easily do without these clichés
and stand on its own feet. So no crosses, no holy water, and no
coffins. And finally, no horrendous screaming and no squeaking doors
either, both seemingly unavoidable in any "horror" movie.

There was an ingeniously constructed story, that brought all the
elements of love and hate, loyalty, and reluctance to harm (or let
harm) someone loved. There is even a vampire brotherhood that refuses
women as members, or even to exist as vampires, hence continuous hunts
for our two main characters to eliminate them. For spoilers sake, I
refrain from giving more details here. Especially what it is that binds
the two women, who are telling everyone they are sisters and that one
is appointed as legal guardian over the other when their mother died,
is an important element that is kept for us until the finale. Even
their age and their origins are revealed to us along the line in very
small doses.

On the deserted island (of course cursed, according to some seamen) we
see the mountains suddenly covered with blood when someone enters the
mysterious cave and decides to give up his soul. Even worse, we see the
phenomenon repeated several times with different persons undergoing the
ritual. I don't think this contributes much, and rather distracts us
from what it really is all about. The multitude of birds that each time
leaves the scene on the crucial moment, has much more impact to
underline the mystery of the ritual and could on itself be enough,
However, since blood is a core element in vampirism, I assume that this
abundance of blood could not be left out, if only to satisfy the
average viewer who assumes this is part of the deal. For the record, I
consider this my only minus point for the whole movie.

All in all, I was very happy to see the clichés of vampirism avoided,
and even the appearance of blood was reduced to a necessary minimum.
This won't satisfy the average vampire movie lover, but that is not my
problem. The underlying plot, combined with the way it is brought to
us, makes this into a totally "different" vampire movie, just as the
director announced in his introduction. Nearly two hours running time
is above average for the hasty ones among us, but in my opinion well
spent.
<|_=00=_|>
Really enjoyed this film although I was a bit lost for the first half
hour or so as I was expecting something quite different than this film
delivered however as the "Story" unfolds at a fairly slow pace you feel
quite drawn to the two leading characters "Eleanor and Clara" and at
this time I would like to mention I was quite impressed with the acting
of these two ladies Saoirse Ronan and Gemma Arterton as compared to
other films I have seen them in. This film is not easily compared to
anything else that I can think of as it is not Quite a Horror film or
really a Vampire film, but the thing I found I kept forgetting it was
Just A Story and not "Real" as the film was very well presented in the
quality of the acting and filming techniques gave it "Reality" feel. I
am avoiding too much of the Detail as I believe you are better off not
knowing too much about it, if you like a good quality film with a good
story line that is not quite about Vampires. For those that may have
the usual questions,the "Blood and Guts" are very minimal as is vision
of any nudity.My best description is that it is a Love story of a
parent for a child.I gave this an 8 as I feel it is a better film than
the current rating suggests.......
<|_=00=_|>
Byzantium is more a study of being human than being vampire and holds
the attention easily with strong lead performances. At the center is
actually a mother daughter relationship, a question of nature versus
nurture and survival. As well as all the vices of humankind thrown in
for good measure. In this movie the vampires are all human, albeit
changed and remain human, albeit enhanced but at a cost and within the
shadows of normal living. Life and death of course are issues and
living,if we could live forever would we rise above what we are?
Questions within. Really enjoyed this and good to see Saiorse Ronan
back on form after that terrible Alien outing. Gemma Arterton also puts
in a great performance. This is billed as a vampire movie however I'd
recommend it to anyone as although the elements are there its very far
from what you'd expect of a movie of that genre.
<|_=00=_|>
in all honesty the reason i know about this film is because am sort of
fascinated with saoirse ronan and i follow all of her news, but
unfortunately this beautiful film hasn't got the fame it deserves in
contrast to all the other vampire movies, it's not like any other
vampire movie I've ever seen maybe due to the impeccable performances
by the leads and also the direction is leaning towards dark and drama
rather than teenage fantasies, i mean those vampires share a few traits
with the Hollywood sexy monsters, they feed on blood and they live
forever and that's it, they don't have super powers and they're not
super rich and they don't sparkle or burn in the sun, actually most of
the time i kept forgetting that am watching a vampire flick and just
got immersed in there stories and mysteries, what also drew me
completely into the film is the atmospheric nature and style the
director adopted and merged with the angelic music and the grim rainy
cloudy weather which helped deepen the edgy feeling of the story. this
is definitely a superior piece of art than interview with a vampire
just watch it and you'll get the feeling
<|_=00=_|>
This poster drew me to this film. Not the poster shown here on IMDb,
but the colorful green, yellow and red which are used other places. I
wasn't expecting too much, but was surprise ad when I saw the casting,
and that it was a Neil Jordan-flick. I've admired Jordan since I saw
The Crying Game.

This story reminds me quite a bit about the Swedish "Låt den retta
komma in" ("Let the right one in"). It has the right realism which made
the the Swedish film so special, and the same coloring tone. The
scenery in the beautiful harbor tine of Hastings are perfect, and it
really made me want to visit there, which I will, most certainly.
Combined with the Dickens inspired older sessions in the movie.

If there were justice in this works, this would have had the success of
"Twilight", or rather instead of. It's very British, stylish, bleak,
beautiful, and the casting is simply perfect, like it seems in all
British films. 

The idea is simply brilliant, and I love the idea of vampires running a
brothel, as well as the depth of the longing for a different life. It's
desperate. 

Saoirse Ronan is once again electric, and the third film I've seen in a
short time with Caleb Landry Jones (both fabulous, "Antiviral" and
"Contraband") convinces me he is a big star in the making. Gemma
Atherton is perfect.

I found the storytelling excellent, and I was very entertained all way
through, though this isn't really my type of story. I think the ancient
part of the story is good, but I think the red bloody waterfall is a
bit over the top, and also slows the story and the believability. But
otherwise this is grand film making.
