
I have never written a review in IMDb. This is my first time. Why?
Because the movie hasn't been released in USA yet, and I just watched
in India. Seeing just 5 reviews, I wanted to give mine too.

What's up with Hollywood? Other than spectacular visuals and 3-D, they
don't seem to care enough about anything else. In Exodus, by the famed
director Ridley Scott, he surpassed many elements in visual effects. I
have never ever seen so detailed visuals of ancient buildings, slums of
slaves, and huge ocean waves and what not. 3-D adds a lot of pleasure
in viewing such effects.

That's it! There is nothing more that I could appreciate. It feels very
empty. No emotions at all. Acting by Christian Bale is quite alright,
but it is nothing special. Some scenes are memorable. But the lack of
good writing, script, and no contribution from other actors diminish
the effect of Bale as well. It is hard to imagine the same guy directed
Gladiator (I haven't seen Aliens and blade runner). But there is
everything missing in Exodus that made Gladiator a hit.

At many places, it is boring, even if the cinematography and visual
effects are great. In the beginning, you would feel as if Ridley took
you to the ancient Egyptian world, just because of the small details
shown in the effects. However, any interest or so will end in next 10
minutes or so, when the story starts lacking.

So, my question remains. What's up with Hollywood? Is this much
technology and huge funding to such directors destroying the
creativity. Why no body cares about character building and good script?
At one level, it feels extremely sad that with this budget and this
talent in technology, even a slight efforts and honesty towards script,
story, and dialogue can take such movies to a masterpiece level.
But...no! "We are going to earn a lot of money. You are going to enjoy
watching the magnificent sequence of millions of frog jumping in
ancient buildings. Call it even?" Really?
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film with an open mind. I have enjoyed Ridley Scott
movies in the past, particularly Gladiator which is the same genre of
film as this. Unfortunately, I was left feeling extremely disappointed.
Although this is a classic, biblical story that most movie-goers are
likely already familiar with, the film-makers have decided to pad this
ancient tale with over-the-top action scenes, as well as one-note
characters that feel more like cardboard cut-outs as opposed to actual
human beings. The most shameful aspect of the film is the part that I
was most looking forward to : The Actual Plague. While I was hoping to
see harrowing images of Egypt being decimated in a genuinely
frightening tale, we are instead bombarded with fake looking CGI that
simply left me dry. The plague feels more like a computer montage than
an actual scary event.Terrible script. Weak performances. An
over-reliance on CGI instead of CHARACTERS and STORY! Overall, just a
bad film. Didn't help that they chose big named actors instead of
people that looked more like Ancient Egyptians. Pass.
<|_=00=_|>
What a waste of my time and money this movie was. Just feels wrong from
start to finish. A fake epic devoid of any real emotions and soul.

Wish Mr. Scott has the courage someone like Mel Gibson had when he made
this movie. Passion Of The Christ & Apocalypto are prime examples of a
director willing to risk everything for what he believes in(even if you
disagree with it). And after watching this film. I can safely say
Ridley only believes in money.

Moses & Ramesses should've been played by middle eastern actors.
Christian Bale should've played Moses' brother Aaron(according to old
scriptures, he did most of the talking for Moses). While John Turturro
& Sigourney Weaver casting was just plain wrong!

The story has been told so many times and it would've been much better
if Ridley told the story of the Hebrews after leaving Egypt. Their 40-
year Sinai plight for example. Started the film with the plagues & the
Red Sea parting, then took off from there to show us events not many
know of.

Don't waste your money on this. Wait for the director's cut then rent
it. Maybe Mr. Scott can save this from the $4.99 shelf.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I have a question about the title itself, the movie clearly
claims to be based out of the bible. So, who are the Gods here, isn't
it one God who brought His people out of Egypt which the movie boasts
about also? Has the director taken the words of Pharaoh too seriously
when he says I am God? 

Let alone the title,as I walked into the theater late, I only saw
Christian Bale saving some kingly dressed Egyptian. And the next thing
I see the Egyptian man calls him Moses. Where is this coming from?
Sure, Moses lived in the palace raised by the Pharaoh's daughter but
when did he save Pharaoh's son in the war? Moses, the author of Exodus
himself would have remembered to give himself that credit if he did
that, wouldn't he? 

Well, the director tries to make a point about the 'valiant' Moses, But
later you find it is little too much exaggeration of thought to give
screen time of around 20 minutes to the whole act of Moses discovering
about his nationality, when Bible just conveys that he already knew he
is a Hebrew.Absolutely ridiculous thing is to use Ben Kingsley as Nun,
who is the father of Joshua for the dramatic effect of letting the cat
out of the bag that Moses is a Hebrew. All this successfully blurs the
actual details of the character of Moses through the way he was raised.
Truth about his nationality and race helped him choose the side and
kill the Egyptian in the first instance he saw his people troubled.
That is what truth does; it will aid you in judgment. 

The most disappointing scene in the movie has not yet come until you
see a bush burning and a small boy saying that he is the I AM. I was
looking forward to this entire dialog between God and Moses but
apparently this Moses was sinking in mud hit by stones and he wakes up
getting convinced by his wife that it is all in his head. Yeah, as this
Moses doesn't go with a staff on to this mountain like the one guarding
the sheep, also misses God's instruction to use staff to work wonders
to convince his people. 

I know, now we just wait for him to get back to Egypt and set things in
action, meet Aaron and negotiate with Pharaoh regarding the release of
his people. But you will be shocked that this Moses is neither the one
who stammers with tongue nor with his sword. He secretly ambushes
Pharaoh in his palace and threatens him in the name of God.For whatever
reasons, Moses here trains an army of handful of Israelite men the
basics of archery, for what? to take down the entire Egyptian army? I
doubt that! To deal with this adamant Moses, God says I will do my
business, you can stop fighting, only to dampen the Moses's mighty
spirit to save his own people. 

I can't believe they showed the plagues to have had fueled from the
river full of crazy crocodiles eating 10 men!! Whatever the director
thought of the original story of Aaron using his staff on the river to
change it into blood, he came up with this idiotic picture in his head.
And all the other plagues are the effect of this blood plague! Clearly
there was no effort made while narrating this story to convey that
Hebrew people are not being affected by the plagues. On top of it,
Moses is telling God to fall in line with the story by saying that
everyone is getting affected by these bloody plagues can you like stop? 

Thanks to the disobedient Moses, it helped the director not convey
God's repeated messages to Pharaoh, warning him to leave Israelites
from his country. Good God! Somehow, Moses cryptically warns Pharaoh
that his son might die that night if he wouldn't let his people out of
country by night. I couldn't stop wondering if it not for the actual
Pharaoh, this Pharaoh would have listened if Moses just spoke the words
as absolute God's word.

By now, we should know what to expect from this Moses, but I was
totally unmoved by his concern for lambs over the preparation for
Passover. We see that the movie might end soon when Hebrew people start
to leave Egypt with anticipation about the great Red sea scene. Another
disappointment greets us there as well, no amount of joy is shown on
the faces of people who have been slaves for 400 years once they got
freedom, I am sure the director very well knows how America celebrates
4th of July! 

I think I need to let go of some more failures of Moses here and just
come to the end, yeah there is no parting of the red sea! You will be
aghast to discover the reason for water to recede, Moses flinging his
sword into the water! Moses has absolutely no clue where he is going,
no God to talk to him. Pharaoh hasn't lost the lead, follows him soon.
Given the confused emotions of Moses about his love for his Pharaoh
Brother putting him in turmoil, fighting his own personal battles he
waits and waits to be drowned in the flood. Oh no, they didn't kill him
and our hero comes out of the sea to the side where Hebrews are
waiting. Now, who led who exactly! Sigh!!

The onward journey began, and there comes the Mt Sinai, God called
Moses to write 10 commandments, the futility of the movie became
crystal clear as God serves him tea and asks him to write a commandment
if he agrees on the validity of that particular command. 

In conclusion, it's a story told but the truth left untold!
<|_=00=_|>
This film tackles a story that had already been tackled very well in
previous films. The most famous of them all is the epic "The Ten
Commandments" with Charlton Heston as the definitive Moses. Other
filmmakers have tried to replicate this Moses story with different
actors or even in animation, but the 1956 classic remains secure in its
place. 

This year, yet another attempt is made by director Ridley Scott with
big star Christian Bale as Moses, a combination is too promising to
ignore. So despite the lukewarm to negative early reviews, I wanted to
see and judge this film for myself.

We all know the story of Moses from the book of Exodus. He was a Hebrew
who grew up in the Egyptian palace side by side with Pharaoh's own son
Ramses. When Moses' real origin was revealed, he was exiled. There in
the wilderness, he obeys God's orders by way of the burning bush to
return to Egypt to ask the new Pharaoh to set the Hebrews free from
slavery. Only after God sent ten dreadful plagues did Ramses relent.
Moses led the Hebrews across the Red Sea and into the Promised Land of
milk and honey.

This film is basically faithful with the biblical story, with the
advantage of higher technology in special visual effects to create
grander vistas and more realistic plagues. It tried to inject some
scientific logic into the supernatural events, particularly the Red Sea
crossing. However, the explanation for the turning of water into blood
was quite a stretch. Moses did not have a staff that turned into a
snake nor part the Red Sea. The Angel of Death scenes were presented
curiously just like the way it was done on "The Ten Commandments"!

The lackluster portrayal by the actors added to the coldness of the
film. I don't know if Christian Bale did not make a very good Moses. He
felt like he was going through the motions here, no passion whatsoever.
Joel Edgerton was totally wrong as Ramses. He looked ill at ease the
whole film, and it was obvious from the posters alone! The presence of
Ben Kingsley, Sigourney Weaver and Aaron Paul in cast were wasted in
small unremarkable roles. 

Some people may expect this to be a religious film. However, the whole
film felt soul-less, and this made the long 150-minute running time
seem so unbearably slow. The very way God was portrayed did not sit
very well with me. God in this film was personified as an imperious
young boy who was projected to be mercilessly violent and vindictive.
There was no hint of compassion nor magnanimity here. Moses was even
arguing against God. The film felt like it had an anti-God undertone,
even atheistic, which was uncomfortable for me. This is yet another
disappointing Biblical film debacle this year, though I would not
consider as bad as the total disaster that was "Noah". 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know Scott can bring a vision to the screen with ease, create a
sweeping vista and bring a dream to life. In part he does that here; a
version of ancient Egypt is brought to life, superficially it seems
right, until you realise this is all this movie has going for it.

Its empty, like a chocolate cake with sawdust inside. I feel cheated,
extremely disappointed, and unenlightened.

Apart from the incredibly distracting casting choices, we know ancient
Egyptians were brown to dark brown, the costumes and setting just
didn't ring true and continuously brought me out of the movie and into
the increasingly monotonous script that lacked any originality, spark
or wit.

Yes, this is straight by the numbers; even including a more
'scientific' approach to the story that I think was supposed to be
clever or original, but just fell flat and drained even more life from
the movie.

Performances I felt were very ordinary; Bale played his usual character
role, serious faced throughout, as did Edgerton, although yet again and
again I found distracting his manicured eyebrows and shaven head,
clearly a poor attempt to look 'other', when his role should have
clearly gone to another. The so called must have big names Scott whined
of, such as Weaver, had hardly a word to say.

Its also overlong, or seems it. Large segments between set pieces drag
on and on, you check your watch and instead of 30 minutes gone, you
realise only 4 minutes have. This is nothing like gladiator. Scott has
gotten old. Hes not going to get better.

Only watch if you like a biblical epic with no originality and dour
presentation. Everyone else, save your cash and if you are tempted,
don't bother with 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
All creative persons/artists go through a creative funk, it's just part 
and parcel of the business they're in. Whether it be a writer who 
suffers from the dreaded writers block, an actor that can't seem to buy 
a hit or a painter that can't seem to replicate the images in their 
heads, the creative lulls affect all. Famed British director Ridley 
Scott, the visionary master behind such classics as Alien, Blade Runner 
and Gladiator has found himself in one of these creative dead zones, 
but the most telling thing about his time in this lowly state is that 
his been there for the better part of a decade and after witnessing his 
new cashed up epic Exodus, it seems he is destined to remain there for 
the foreseeable future. 

Exodus is one of the most telling examples of storytelling mediocrity 
overshadowing impeccable production values that I've ever seen and it 
would be hard for anyone to argue against the pure visual value present 
on screen in what is a clearly lavishly splurged upon epic. From 
monuments through to the slums of the slave's right down to the extra 
clad streets, Exodus brims to life with a detailed and often incredible 
visual palette. While the wonders of the on screen production will 
consistently make you look twice, there seems like such little point to 
an exercise like this when all is surrounded by a script that never 
allows us in, alongside Scott directing proceedings like a man that 
wants to show off but not engage, direction more concerned with how to 
spectacularly kill of horses than making the characters and story come 
to life. 

Much has been made in the media of late surrounding the casting of 
actors in Exodus but more importantly to movie goers it's important to 
know just how tame the acting turns are here. Christian Bale makes for 
a watchable yet not entirely memorable Moses, his incarnation has 
moments of brief humanity but he feels more a caricature than a living 
breathing embodiment of one of the Bibles most well-known figures, we 
feel tiny bits of the weight Moses had on his shoulders, yet our care 
towards him remains dangerously low. On the other end of the spectrum 
Australian Joel Edgerton (in perhaps his biggest Hollywood gig yet) 
fails to deliver on what should've been a glorious big screen villain 
in the form of Rhamses. All eyeliner and grizzled looks, Edgerton fails 
to convince in his role and it feels from the get go that sadly he 
may've been miscast much like John Turturoo's Seti, Aaron Paul's Joshua 
and Ben Kinglsey's Nun, even the usually scene stealing Ben Mendelsohn 
as Hegep fails to make much of a mark which leaves the film but a few 
genuine moments of memorability, that being all largely related to the 
onset of the plagues. 

Impressive visuals, stunning sets and some genuinely wow inducing 
moments concerning the plagues aren't enough to save this emotionally 
void epic from a giant wave of the mundane. Scott sure knows how to 
conduct his production department and his sweeping camera sure can 
capture some outstanding action but the one time storyteller has lost 
sight of how to portray his characters, how to play out a story and 
Exodus looks set to become another Scott failure that looks likely to 
underwhelm audiences as well as Box Office's the world over. 

2 shades of eyeliner out of 5


<|_=00=_|>
Some ***SPOILERS***

Amazing visuals aside this was a poor movie. When will filmmakers
realise the MAIN reason the majority of people watch films is for a
story to be told and to relate to the characters involved - NOT to see
amazing visuals, as entertaining as they are! The story of Moses in the
Bible is rich, amazing and epic. Unfortunately the story in this film
is slow, lacks heart, but more importantly, completely betrays the
original "true" story. 

The scene where Moses kills an Egyptian was flat, empty and over before
you could blink. What should have been one of the biggest moments in
the movie to help understand Moses passion for his people, character,
disdain for Egypt (according to the movie he LOVED Egypt) and origins
ended in a flash. Moses showed zero remorse in what was more an act of
self defense over empathy. 

When you don't tell the whole truthful story the characters involved
are ultimately betrayed. The movie suffers from this particularly in
God's character. Ridley Scott seems determined to focus on the supposed
relationship between Moses and his supposed brother. But we never
really care about either of them or their relationship. Not to mention
the Bible never mentions this, in fact it implies that the Pharaoh at
the time of Moses return didn't even care about him or perhaps even
know him?

Ridley Scott would have done well to concentrate on staying true to the
story and establishing a connection between the audience and the two
central characters: God and Moses. Unfortunately we end up with a movie
that is desperately trying to be epic in scale and visuals but somewhat
confusing in it's story and it's characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Nice special effects but unrealistic storytelling. Poor acting and poor
casting. The movie drags on and on until it ends leaving you feeling
worse off then when you came in to watch. I thought it would be better
from the previews and all the hype (which clearly is unmerited) but
it's not. Bale should stick with the Dark Knight roles he clearly did
not know what he was doing attempting to take on the role of Moses.
Bland dialogue, slow paced. You know what's coming, everything is
already there for the movie to be a blockbuster and yet it amounts to
an utter failure. This movie had potential to actually be done well but
whoever green-lighted this should be fired. A waste of time!!
Uninspiring film. Choppy. I don't think children would even enjoy
watching the movie beyond a few special effects here and there. Not
family- orientated, poorly executed. Would not see again.
<|_=00=_|>
What, in God's name, was this? Everything reeks of commercial operation
without any real thought behind it. Of all the puzzling elements in
this bizarre epic, the most inexplicable is Christian Bale as Moses.
Not the choice of Christian Bale - commercial operation, remember - no,
that I understand, what's inexplicable is his performance. We know now
Christian Bale is a great actor. Great. The Fighter alone puts him
right up there with some of the best of his generation so why then he's
so bad, but so bad here. His Moses is absent. Not a moment of truth,
not a moment of real connection. Was he a hostage, performing against
his will? That's what I felt, that he didn't want to be there and that
alone made me watch the whole film with disdain. What a disheartening
experience. I give it a 2 and not a 1 out of respect for the crew,
because their work is real and present on the screen.
