
Opening medium shot: Shannyn Sossamon is sitting on a bed with her back 
to the headboard.The camera begins to move s-l-o-w-l-y toward a closeup 
of her face against a backdrop of silence. 3 minutes elapse as we watch 
her left hand move toward her face. She is holding a hair dryer. She 
turns it on. It blows in her face. During the next 2-3 minutes we watch 
as she moves the hair dryer closer to her face. We hear the motor purr. 
As this soporific scene concludes it sets the stage for a 120+ minute 
film that defies description.

We soon learn that the story is about the shooting of a movie. 
Mademoiselle Sossamon has been chosen for the lead in this 'movie 
within a movie' She tells the Director she is 'not an actress' but he 
wants her anyway. I don't blame him..she's gorgeous and mysterious, 
perfect for a part that is the centerpiece of this convoluted, 
incomprehensible, maddening movie.

As we watch various scenes of the director 'shooting his movie,' we 
become more confused regarding the storyline. When the director needs a 
retake, we watch him shoot the same scene over three times.

More than likely the film editor went mad attempting to splice the 
scenes together to make a coherent story. Rather than give up, he 
spliced the scenes at random, collected his check and vanished. I 
commend him for having the courage to allow his name be listed in the 
credits.

This movie was an endurance test. After the first 30 minutes, I took a 
bathroom break and noticed that at least half the audience had left, 
presumably in time to get their money back. I am aware there is an 
audience for this type of movie who enjoy obscure plots populated with 
ill defined characters. I'll acknowledge that Director Monte Hellman 
has style, but I'm unable to describe it. If money is not an object, go 
see this movie. But don't delay. I suspect the DVD is imminent.
<|_=00=_|>
Monte Hellman remains one of America's greatest living filmmakers,
director of metaphysical classics like TWO-LANE BLACKTOP (1971),
arguably the ultimate American Road Movie, COCKFIGHTER (1974) and a
handful of others. Like the masterful Spanish filmmaker Victor Erice
(whose classic THE SPIRIT OF THE BEEHIVE Hellman gives a nod to in ROAD
TO NOWHERE), it's something of a crime that Hellman has directed as few
films as he has. So there's great reason to celebrate with the arrival
of ROAD TO NOWHERE, his first full feature in over 20 years. 

Hellman being who he is, ROAD TO NOWHERE is as dense, poetic and
mysterious as anything he's made since probably THE SHOOTING in 1968.
In fact, his new film is likely his most challenging ever -- but that
shouldn't put you off. On the surface, it's the story of a real-life
murder-suicide connected to a Southern politician -- a mystery which
gets inextricably entangled with the making of a film about the tragedy
directed by a moody, obsessive filmmaker (Tygh Runyan, who also played
the moody, obsessive Stanley Kubrick in Hellman's "Stanley's
Girlfriend") and starring a beautiful, opaque actress (Shannyn
Sossamon, in easily her strongest and most rewarding performance to
date). Add to this an almost infinite rogue's gallery of characters
including veteran actors Cliff De Young and John Diehl, a wry extended
cameo from Italian pulp cinema icon Fabio Testi (from Hellman's CHINA
9, LIBERTY 37) -- and you have the strangest Hall of Mirrors this side
of THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI. 

If you struggle to make "sense" of the plot, you'll probably miss the
point -- since one of the major themes that emerges in ROAD TO NOWHERE
is the impossibility of ever making sense of anything. (Hence the
title: the Road leads Nowhere, but that shouldn't stop you from taking
the journey.) Hellman uses a similar narrative strategy as in his
classic TWO-LANE BLACKTOP where about halfway through the story the
actual race stops mattering. In ROAD TO NOWHERE, the question of who
committed the murder (or whether there was a murder at all) slowly
drifts away in a Sargasso Sea of false leads, flashbacks and unanswered
questions. What's left is Hellman's portrait of monstrous artistic
obsession and some of his most intense and erotically-charged
filmmaking ever, played out in long, lingering scenes between Sossamon
and Runyan. There's also a bit of M.C. Escher here, like walking up a
staircase only to find yourself at the bottom of another staircase, and
another ... 

If you're looking for an easy ride, then you should probably look
elsewhere. But if you want to wander off-road, into the mysterious and
inexplicable Zone (to quote from Tarkovsky's STALKER) where nothing is
as it seems -- then Monte Hellman's ROAD TO NOWHERE is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This was among the most exciting news in recent years, a new Monte
Hellman film out of nowhere. In the pipeline for some time but released
without any hooplah or major headlines, this much was at least proper
for a man who made incognito some of the unique films of the American
underground: Ride in the Whirlwind, The Shooting, Two-Lane Blacktop,
Cockfighter.

But this one intrigued in a different way; gone but always remembered
is the great Warren Oates, gone the mute drifters and brooding
alienation of that time, but it would not be hackwork for hire, a
re-shoot or mere work assignment, this one promised to be a dark
personal vision like he hadn't been given the opportunity to direct in
a long time.

So gone is Blacktop and Oates, this is a new thing for Hellman. But old
in terms of cinema. It is the old trope of a film about a film,
filtered through film noir and French New Wave. Lynch, pundits assert. 

So one layer is a film about the makings of the film we are watching,
referencing a life in movies and around movie sets that Hellman knows
too well. Material deliberately chosen to be pulpy and reflecting movie
plots that we know from noir is the backbone, a story of illicit love
and suicide and behind it political intrigue and stolen money,
presumably real events that our visionary filmmaker is fighting to turn
into a movie.

Another layer is that story interspersed throughout as a film-within
and gradually being shaped into the film being shot. But is it? Or is
something more sinister afoot and only masquerading as our film? The
idea: where does one dream end and the next begin, and is the space
where one bleeds into the other reality or fiction.

The mechanisms that generate images are well sketched: desire, codified
as our actress and referencing the femme fatale - another woman playing
a role - and film noir dynamics, and the self perceiving itself
separate, here very directly our filmmaker selectively framing a part
of real life as a moving illusion. 

The downside is not that it's slow and muddled as reported by some
viewers. The downside is that since Hellman's day we've had several
filmmakers probe and abstract deeper. We've had Lynch. This is not as
complex or dangerous as believes to be. The machinery is never less
than obvious. And occasionally as hamfisted as a camera being mistaken
by police for a gun.

Hellman shoots this like it's going to be his crowning achievement.
It's not, mostly because in this specific niche compete the most
adventurous filmmakers of our time. This is not and has never been
Hellman's natural space. He can't help but disappoint. But it's a new
Hellman film and in a new direction and that's something to get excited
for these days, right?
<|_=00=_|>
Ever see a movie that is full of art, depth and meaning, but you just
don't like it?

David Lynch movies strike me the same way. "Road to Nowhere" seems like
a very Lynchian film. It carries a dark, brooding sense of imminent
tragedy, characters are mysterious (some may say deliberately
2-dimensional), and the story disorients the viewer by leaping through
different planes of existence. It's the kind of movie you're probably
expected to view several times before you truly get it.

The story takes us to a small town where we piece together a crime
based on small fragments. The whole time, a movie is being filmed about
the crime, and that's the real plot. It's actually pretty clever of the
director to hit us with 2 simultaneous stories unfolding in cryptic
bits, and if I had more patience, I could have absorbed it all. But for
the first hour I was just struggling to figure out what's going on, and
the long, slow pacing seemed to mock my struggle. Do not watch this
movie unless you're prepared to sit for nearly 2 hours like a deer in
the headlights.

When the big picture finally materializes, it's almost too late. The
abrupt ending may leave you feeling unsatisfied as it did me. But I
guess that's where you're supposed to watch it again. 

There was one part I'm very glad I saw: a scene where one character
recites the poem "Sonnet XXV" by George Santayana. I'd never heard that
poem before and immediately paused the movie to look it up.

Another scene, a short one of a plane crashing into a lake, struck me
as beautiful. Make no mistake, even though I'm not a big fan of this
movie, I enjoyed parts of it and would recommend it to fans of David
Lynch ("Mulholland Drive"), Peter Greenaway ("Zed and two Naughts") or
maybe--this is a stretch--Wim Wenders ("Paris, Texas"). It's also
vaguely reminiscent of Jim Jarmusch ("Limits of Control") but it
doesn't have Jarmusch's humorous moments, or any humor really. This is
a very serious movie, made by serious people, intended for serious
cinephiles. Do not watch this if you're in the mood for "Peewee's Big
Adventure" or you'll be likely to crash your own airplane into a lake.
<|_=00=_|>
GIve me something really juicy to obsess over, and it's off to the
races. I've been a huge fan of Shannyn Sossamon for some time, but I'd
missed this movie until recently when it was aired on cable. While I
feel that Shannyn is the film's biggest asset, I'm also struck by how
her presence is not completely dominating any scene she's in with
others. It's clear that this was the right film, right actors, right
time and place, because this kind of full-cast chemistry doesn't come
along very often. I couldn't help feeling like a fly on the wall who
was witnessing the combustible moments, big or small, between these
characters. 

In someone else's review here, they mentioned a killer opening shot. I
agree and feel the same way about the closing shot as well. It could've
gone on for another five minutes and I wouldn't have noticed. I'm
looking forward to watching Road to Nowhere again so I can catch some
of the little things I missed, because I'm sure that I did miss some.
<|_=00=_|>
As 'Road to Nowhere' begins, pre-production is underway on a movie
project about a notorious murder case involving an absconded embezzler,
faked accidents and substitute corpses. The director is seeking a lead
actress to play the crime's femme fatale - and his search soon unearths
an uncanny double of the villainous vamp, whose only previous credit is
an 'exploitation' movie. Coincidentally her character is called Velma -
which also happens to be the name of the duplicitous missing showgirl
in Raymond Chandler's 'Farewell, My Lovely'. After two-thirds of the
film is wasted on long shots of characters tying their shoelaces,
watching nail polish dry and rehearsing inconsequential dialog, the
actress embarks on a tepid love affair with the film's director, which
results in some unexplained melodramatic discord and a violent
conclusion.

Although film-within-a-film concepts have been used previously, as in
Truffaut's 'Day For Night' and David Lynch's 'Inland Empire', a
disciplined director armed with a coherent screenplay should be able to
conjure fresh life from the old dog. Unfortunately 'Road To Nowhere'
never provides any useful information about the original crime or those
involved, nor does it ever clarify various intrigues amongst the film
crew. Director Hellman justifies all the heavy-handed movie references
and opaque mysteries by claiming he prefers surreal narratives - but
his excuse is fraudulent. This isn't surrealism - it's just dull
story-telling - or more accurately, no story-telling.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a pleasure to watch but a veritable conundrum to figure
out. Watching it a second time will sort an incredible amount out. It
is told from the point of view of a blogger, a filmmaker, several of
the actors, an insurance adjuster and, most interestingly, contains
spin-offs of possible plot lines in the mind of the filmmaker. I think
this is where most of the confusion comes from. If you like puzzles,
this is the film for you. Wonderful acting, interestingly filmed.
Trying to sort out the various plot levels becomes the challenge. Those
who say there is no method to the madness haven't looked closely
enough. Everyone within the film is trying to figure out this crime so
it is only fair that the audience is let in on the game as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I may have to revise and extend these comments if I get a chance to
watch this one again. It demands a second viewing and a pause button
while one jots down thoughts about what is going on. The movie appears
to be well thought out, but establishing that and getting in tune with
the thinking behind it takes several viewings. I don't feel like
watching it again right now.

It's a decent enough movie with a few oddities that probably mean
something but are not obvious right away. For example, there is a scene
where inordinate time is taken in which the actress ties her shoes. The
meaning of this is apparent some time later when we see a little girl
tying her shoes. This establishes a connection of identity. The initial
hair drying scene probably connects too, but I'm not sure with what.

At any rate, the story is something like "The Stunt Man" in being about
a movie being made and the director becoming involved with a crime
indirectly by taking in a fugitive as a stunt man. In "Road to
Nowhere", the director casts a woman in the lead who it seems may have
been directly involved in a crime. She then seems to be playing
herself, because the film being shot is about that very crime. Much of
this film shows behind-the-scenes goings-on as the movie is being made.

Connecting the movie to the previous crime also is an insurance
investigator who investigated that crime. He has become a consultant on
the making of the film.

To meld reality and movie-making further, the violent climax of "Road
to Nowhere" involves a new crime that involves those making the movie.
In that way, it's "real".

Additionally, the director making the movie is not sure what the actual
crime was that occurred and that he is making a film about. He makes
changes as he goes along, not following a set script. Directors
sometimes do this; Italian directors are famous for this. Because he's
unsure, he considers various alternatives. The insurance investigator
is unsure too.

I found the overall result reasonably engaging. Comprehending it more
fully will take another watch.
<|_=00=_|>
"Monte Hellman's new movie is entitled Road to Nowhere. The title may
bring a bittersweet smile to longtime fans of the brilliant director.
Half sweet because it would be an apt moniker for most of his dark
journeys, while the bitter half comes from the knowledge that the title
could also describe a career that has resulted in great films, but with
one near-exception has never resulted in the wide acclaim that he
deserves. However, after seeing Road to Nowhere, Hellman fans will be
smiling unambiguously with pleasure that this latest work represents a
strong return to form for this unique filmmaker after over thirty years
wandering in the filmmaking wilderness

The movie tells the twisty neo-noir tale of a film crew shooting a true
crime saga about a massive scam that ended in multiple deaths. Things
get messy when director Mitchell Haven chooses an unknown actress to
star in his movie. Mitchell becomes increasingly obsessed with his
enigmatic leading lady who may have a secret connection to the actual
crime. Mitchell's obsession and her dangerous game lead them both down
a rabbit hole from which there is no escape. However, no synopsis can
do justice to the Chinese box-like structure of Hellman's work. Careful
viewing is required to decipher which events are "real" and what is the
film-within-the-film, with even the credits being playfully deceptive.
At age seventy-nine, Hellman has created a powerful and haunting work
that can stand with his best films"

- Dylan Skolnick Long Island Pulse Magazine
<|_=00=_|>
The title says it all. This movie goes nowhere. Unfortunately it
doesn't go nowhere fast. I should've seen the writing on the wall
considering the movie starts out LITERALLY watching paint dry.

From there it only slows down. And devolves to absolutely incredulous
stupidity by the major players.

Want to switch the same scene three times? This is your movie.

Want to wonder how stupid people could possibly be? Yep, watch this.

Want to watch paint dry? A full minute of someone tying their shoes? 45
seconds cleaning the garbage out of their car? Film just being run to
run film? GET.THIS.MOVIE.

Sound intolerable? Save yourself the 2 hours. Trust me. Or don't, but
you were warned.
