
Norm (Rob Schneider) the polar bear doesn't know how to hunt, but he
does possess the unique ability to talk to humans. When the wealthy Mr.
Greene (Ken Jeong) unveils his idea to build luxury condos in the
Arctic, Norm realizes that his beloved home is in jeopardy. Accompanied
by three mischievous lemmings, Norm stows away on a ship to New York.
Once there, he meets a surprising ally (Maya Kay) who helps him hatch a
scheme to sabotage the shady developer's plans.

Norm of the North is truly an excellent movie you should not miss.It
will undoubtedly please the majority of audience because it is
impressively funny from the beginning till the end.
<|_=00=_|>
"Norm Of The North" is an outstanding film for both children and
adults.

It is a 3D Comedy- Adventure Movie.

I loved the plot of the movie about a cute,brainy and gentle bear
called North.This bear peacefully asks for his rights in an incredibly
funny and smart way.He talks to people too with a sense of humour.

The film is appealing to kids, teens and adults who would definitely
enjoy watching this incredible film if they are stressed or sad.

90% real comedy,70% Adventure,100% Good Theme & Great Acting.

Off course Director Trevor Wall is a genius and all the producers did a
great job because nobody in the cinema was bored.
<|_=00=_|>
Norm of the North is a 2016 American computer animated adventure comedy
film, directed by Trevor Wall. It features the voices of Rob Schneider,
Heather Graham, Ken Jeong, Colm Meaney, Loretta Devine, Gabriel
Iglesias, Michael McElhatton, and Bill Nighy. Produced by Splash
Entertainment and Assemblage Entertainment, and distributed by
Lionsgate, the film was released on January 15, 2016 and was
universally panned.

Displaced from their Arctic home, a polar bear named Norm and his three
lemming friends wind up in New York City, where Norm becomes the mascot
of a corporation. He soon learns the corporation is tied to the fate of
his homeland.

Norm (Rob Schneider) the polar bear doesn't know how to hunt, but he
does possess the unique ability to talk to humans. When the wealthy Mr.
Greene (Ken Jeong) unveils his idea to build luxury houses in the
Arctic, Norm realizes that his beloved home is in jeopardy. Accompanied
by three mischievous lemmings, Norm stows away on a ship to New York.
Once there, he meets a surprising ally (Maya Kay) who helps him hatch a
scheme to sabotage the developer's unscrupulous plans.

Me and my son Muhammad found this movie great and very funny.

It is so disappointing that it is under-rated!.
<|_=00=_|>
Ten Good Reasons Why Norm Of The North is an excellent movie.

1)It is funny from beginning to end.

2)Amazing Dialogue.

3)Adventurous and interestingly impressive.

4) Great Music .

5)Talented & Experienced Actors & Actresses and not Amateurs.

6)It is A Top 10 Movie IN USA,Canada,Europe & Asia.

7)Amazing 3D Visual Effects.

8)Handsome Actor Rob Schneider Is Professional And So Funny.

9)A Great Family Movie With No Violence Whatsoever.

10)Lions Gate Company Is A Professional Film Company And Not An Amateur
Company.

Actually this film was absolutely amusing for me although I'm not a
kid.
<|_=00=_|>
A polar bear of many words, Norm's greatest gripe is simple: there is
no room for tourists in the Arctic. But when a maniacal developer
threatens to build luxury condos in his own backyard, Norm does what
all normal polar bears would do...he heads to New York City to stop it.
With a cast of ragtag lemmings at his side, Norm takes on the big
apple, big business and a big identity crisis to save the day.

This movie is extremely hilarious and I was glad to see it. LionsGate
did not make a mistake when they released this excellent movie. I
enjoyed everything about it.

All the children I know who saw the movie liked it and admired the
fantastic and cuddly bear (Norm).
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my gosh. I thought after Cory In the House, anime could not reach
that height again, especially after garbage like Attack on Titan and
Ponyo. 

With shows like Johnny Test, we've merely scratched the surface of
potential for a new otaku golden age. My Little Pony further progresses
it into something highly enjoyable, but it doesn't quite reach that
explosion of entertainment that the mid-2000s golden age did (Shrek,
Cory In The House, Bee Movie).

And then came Norm of the North.

Screw Attack baby-ass Naruto. Sianara Wind Rises. THIS is the new
standard for ALL future anime! 

I have never seen a single anime before with THIS amount of effort,
passion, brains, and most importantly, HEART put in. The story is so
complex and engaging. A bear discriminated against and outcasted from
society discovers that his village is becoming invaded and enslaved by
an ancient legend proved true: The army of human supremacists who
spread their propaganda among their people to devour a race weaker then
them. Norm the Bear must voyage to the world of the enemy and convince
their people to unite in harmony with the bears in order to save his
village from tyranny, fascism, and genocide. 

Every character is incredibly deep and impressively characterized. The
animation is unique where it makes the world feel lifelike yet
fanatical enough to submerge you from reality.

Dare I say it Norm of the North is better than CORY IN THE HOUSE!!!!

11/10. It achieves the impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
My God. This film was fantastic. I went into this movie thinking it was
going to be just another kids animation movie. Boy was I wrong. This
movie took me on a feel trip I never would of thought an animation move
could take me on. I damn near cried towards the en..oh wait...my bad, I
read the title wrong. oh my, I thought I was reviewing Inside Out. So
Norm of the North eh. No....Just don't. Your kids would get better
entertainment from watching grass grow. In fact, just take your kids
out to the park. Don't waste money on this cringe worthy "kids" movie.
If even you can call it a movie. This "movie." oh man... I cant even
construct a coherent sentence. This film broke me. I died a little
inside. Do yourself and your kids a favor and avoid this "film" like
the plague.
<|_=00=_|>
Norm Of The North tells the story of a courageous bear called Norm.
Norm has the power to communicate with people.When his home is
threatened to be removed by wicked man Greene,he travels to the remote
jungle in order to convince people to save his home.

Norm Of The North is totally funny with a great adventure as well as an
interesting plot.

The characters in this movie are appealing and the jokes are so
hilarious not only for kids but also for adults too.

The moral and theme of Norm Of The North is that every animal and
living creature must preserve his environment nature and should not let
exploiters deprive the rights of animals.

For all of the above reasons,Norm Of The North Deserves An Oscar For
Best Animated Movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Rob, a personal friend of mine, adds a great depth to the main
character, Norm. He rally conveys the emotion Norm feels. And norm has
a lot to feel. Norm, the human speaking bear, has a big heart, and a
great brain. Some children's movies have no value. This one is loaded
with moral issues and the reasons behind them. The movie flows well, is
funny to adults and children, touching, and VERY dramatic. The
animation works well and is very believable. Bottom line, is was like a
cartoon roller coaster and one of the few "kids" movies I would see
again. My daughter and I are now planning to visit the Arctic. But, a
short visit.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why every critic is ragging on this piece of animated
cinema. JUST after watching the trailer, my wife's son and I thought it
would be a great way to spend some bonding time together. 

Not only was the film filled with absolutely gorgeous visuals, but the
writing was absolutely perfect joke after joke. The main character is a
bear that delivers those jokes with great comedic timing. His size
compared to those around him (he's a pretty big guy) also gives the
impression that he's kind to those smaller than him. It's a great
lesson to teach children. Sure, it may not be what most critics are
accustomed to, but I think if you give it a chance, you might walk away
surprised.
