
Some will reject this movie from the offset because it is a
Christian-themed movie, which is unfortunate. It portrays life as it
really is, and the struggles we have with wrongs done to us in the
past, and the profound moments of letting go, of grace and
reconciliation and forgiveness.

Although we see God working through the hearts, actions, and
circumstances of people, it is not one of those films that portrays
this in a triumphal, miraculous, or unrealistic way.

It's the story of a Memphis cop, Bill "Mac" McDonald, who, 17 years
prior, lost his 5-year-old son who was an innocent bystander when
police were conducting a drug bust on their street. "Mac" turns inward
and becomes very bitter, a racist and a perfectionist, straining
relations with his wife and other son, and has an attitude problem
which keeps him from getting promoted as a cop.

Seventeen years later, still deeply embittered and racist, Mac looses
out on a promotion that goes to an African-American cop Sam Wright.

Sam has struggles of his own. He is a preacher in a small, somewhat
declining Church of the Nazarene congregation that seems to be growing
stagnant. Sam had hoped that God would bless his ministry and be able
to commit full time to it, but in order to support his family, must
remain on the Police force. He's a pretty good preacher, but God seems
to be using him in even more effective ways on the Police force.

Sam Wright and Bill "Mac" McDonald (the racist, embittered cop) are
temporarily placed together as partners on the police force.

Despite being emotionally with it, even Sam is deeply hurt by Mac's
nonacceptance, unfriendliness, hurtful remarks and scowling hatred
merely because Sam is a black man. As a result it hurts his ministry
which wants him to preach forgiveness and reconciliation.

Without giving away too much, it is Sam's grandfather (played by Louis
Gossett Jr.) who helps Sam deal with his feelings, and produces a short
letter from his grandfather the 1880s that becomes the miraculous
premise for helping Sam overcome his hurt.

A NEW tragedy in Mac McDonald's family brings Sam and Mac closer
together in Mac's hour of desperate, prayer-fraught need.

Yes, there is a surprise twist or two in the plot.

It should be noted that this movie is the work of a first-time director
David G. Evans and scores of first-time actors, sponsored mainly by one
church (Calvary Church of the Nazarene, Memphis). Even so, the results
are remarkably good. The actors, the police force -- all seem like down
to earth, ordinary people pulled together by miraculous circumstances,
and a few surprise twists. We see God working profoundly through hearts
and circumstances rather than divine intervention and miracles. Only a
couple of actors are less than professional and their lines or scenes
are short, unobtrusive. Louis Gossett fits in well with his stellar
performance.

The film also has great shots of Memphis, portraying the city as it
really is -- many of the familiar but less known streets and
intersections.

Don't expect a high-tech thriller. But this is a realistic,
down-to-earth slice of life film with a powerful Christian theme of
Grace and reconciliation.
<|_=00=_|>
We had the opportunity of previewing The Grace Card with other local
community leaders recently. While many faith based movies that are
family friendly and maintain a solid moral direction they often times
lack in quality and presentation. The Grace Card, like a few others
(Facing the Giants, Fireproof, etc.) is the exception. Overall the
plot, presentation and quality of the film was excellent and I'd highly
recommend this picture to people looking for an uplifting family
friendly movie to watch.

The Grace Card is a drama and we took our teenager and preteen boys to
the viewing and they enjoyed the film just as much as we did. While
most Hollywood dramas are something can't watch as a family once again
The Grace Card is the exception. Anyone looking for a good drama that
is thought provoking that they can watch with the family will enjoy
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It's so nice to see a well-made film that entertains, enlightens, and
challenges us to be our better selves. 

Mac has good reason for his bitterness and unforgiveness, but it's
colored his whole life and continually inflicts pain on his family.
Sam, on the other hand, is understandably conflicted when he's forced
to partner with Mac in this cop drama. The inter-twinings of their
families and their lives bring the real issues to a fever pitch in a
desperate situation. I also loved Oscar winner Lou Gossett Jr.'s
character, as the elder sage who had clearly walked this road before.
Everyone has something in their lives--some pain or disappointment they
hold on to. THE GRACE CARD is a wonderful drama about shaking free from
it, and at the same time, releasing others.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen many Christian produced movies in my life and usually come
out refreshed emotionally but the film and acting quality always leaves
me frustrated. When they had the pre-screening I was reluctant to go
because as an avid movie watcher I was afraid that as a church produced
movie the quality would not be what I wanted. Boy was I wrong!! The
entire movie I was leaning over to my friends going, look at this film
quality!! The one thing I didn't like was the wife of Sam had really
cheesy acting. But that was my only complaint of the entire movie. It
was as if it was produced and filmed by Warner Brothers.

"The Grace Card" refreshed my soul and I could relate. They had topics
that were real and happen on a daily basis to many people in our
society. And my hopes are that people will understand that although
tough things happen in our life, God will be there for us, he never
gives us too much to handle, and when at times it feels like our
prayers aren't answered that God has a bigger plan and that he is in
control. 

I saw this film at the Trevecca Nazarene University pre-screening and
on February 25th I WILL pay the $10.50 to go see it again. And maybe
even again after that.

If you are struggling with anything or just want to be rejuvenated "The
Grace Card" is what you need to see!!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great film about grace and forgiveness and what happens if
you let anger take control of your life. The acting is awesome. It is
hard to believe that only Lou Gossett Jr has been in a movie before.
You will not realize that. Mac and Sam are awesome and even the smaller
characters are great. It is entertainment with a purpose. The fact that
it is a Christian film does not turn you off. There is drama, comedy
and action. You will be moved and blessed. Macs character is like
people all across the country. It is a real issue that we all face as
people. It shows that we can all get along if we will get our
priorities right. I cannot wait to see how America accepts this. Oh and
bring your tissues.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was excellent. It was not over the top preachy as the one
reviewer said. It actually had a realistic transformation scene in the
end. While the acting was not maybe as good as some Hollywood big names
it was still very well done. If you enjoyed any of the Sherwood
Pictures films such as Facing the Giants and Fireproof, you will enjoy
The Grace Card. It is just as well done and will be a film that the
whole family will enjoy. Excellent family film and a film that you can
use as outreach as well. Great film to make a part of your family or
church library.This would also be a great film to show to your unsaved
family and friends. The ending was full awesome and showed the great
grace of God and how it can impact families and change individuals.
<|_=00=_|>
I came across this movie quite by accident, or maybe divine
intervention. I say that because this movie come to me at a time where
it 's message helped me. This movie may suffer in ratings as mainstream
people tend to shy away from 'religious movies' as they're called. This
movie does not preach. Instead it uses a good storyline to teach a
valuable lesson. Mainly we learn to put things in context, and that
many people out there who are mean, or horrible to others are
themselves hurt. The walking wounded who become bitter and set on a
path of destruction. If we can see the other person's hurt, we can
understand where they are coming from and possibly meet them half way.
Instead of hating them, we need to love them. The movie itself tells of
the strained family relations after a devastating accident, how the
even changes the family members individually and how one person't faith
can indeed make a difference. It's a story about grief, growth,
healing, family, and salvation. There is one part of the movie that
warrants being written down and remembered; I know I did that! I am
very thankful for this movie and think that like minded and open minded
people will enjoy it. Happy viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved everything about this movie, wish there were more like it! It is
right up there with Fireproof, Facing the Giants and Fly Wheel in
content but slightly better technology wise. Dealing with real life
stuff with a grace filled message. This is a realistic, down-to-earth
slice of life film with a powerful Christian theme of reconciliation.
Deals with the tough issue of racism. Who needs high tech when the plot
is as good as this. The people did a great job portraying their part,
it was heart tugging and soul searching. All ages could see it, even
the parts that reveal some harder police work do not show anything
disgusting, you will have to use your imagination that most film makers
today don't know what that is! Plus I love the part that the families
make a choice to love one another even when they are unlovable because
most messages at movies today are the "grass is greener so it is OK to
leave behind and move on!"
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good movie. However many who simply don't like faith-based
movies will not like this one. They are also likely the ones who give
it a low IMDb vote.

The story plays on the core concept that goodness starts within each of
us. It also builds on the white/black racial tensions in a place like
Memphis, the setting for this story.

A white man became a police officer after his young son was killed when
a young black drug dealer was speeding away to avoid police. The
druggie was convicted and served his 10-year sentence, but the father
who lost his son has continued to battle inner demons.

That is exacerbated when a black officer, younger than him and with
less experience, gets promoted. A black officer who also happens to be
a preacher, a man of faith. To compound the hurt, they were ordered to
be partners for a time.

The title of the story is a play on the old expression "playing the
race card." Instead, the movie's message is to "play the grace card",
to forgive someone rather than to hold a grudge forever.

SPOILERS: The white cop has a teenage son who is a screw-up, and
presently being kicked out of a private school the parents can barely
afford. Then one night they surprise a burglary in progress, they go
in, the white cop shots a masked man, who turns out to be his own son.
The shot kills a kidney, and it is discovered that because of a defect
from birth that was his only functioning kidney. He needs a transplant
to stay alive. It turns out the black office/preacher is a match, and
his donation keeps the boy alive. The father receives redemption also.
<|_=00=_|>
Because there was only one showing in the afternoon, having had several
last week when I was a bit busy during that time, me and my movie
theatre-working friend chose to watch it then when we both had this day
off. While my friend was crying throughout, I managed to start to be
touched when that wife of that cop slapped him because of his
accidental shooting of their teenage son but I'm getting ahead of
myself here. This Christian-themed movie about the dealings of long-ago
tragedy, some racism, and the idea of forgiveness despite some people
that caused those tragedies was for the most part well made even though
I managed to predict what would happen before they did. Still, this was
quite touching and made pertinent points about how hard some feelings
are to let go. One other thing I'd like to mention is that Oscar-winner
Louis Gossett, Jr.-in his brief role-still can steal a scene even
during his quietest moments like here. So on that note, The Grace Card
was pretty good as a message drama.
