
.... and wishing they'd arrive soon and gobble up the entire cast of
this terminally boring movie. But, alas, they didn't; and the thing
dragged on and on interminably... until, after what felt like an
eternity, it finally reached its always predictable, anticlimactic
climax. 

What can we say about the cast? It would perhaps be more accurate to
describe them as the miscast. Halle Berry looks great. If I went
through what she went through in this movie I'd look like something the
cat brought in. But even at her most artistically bedraggled, Berry
looks as if she could just slip into a D&G dress and sashay down the
catwalk in Paris or Milan. Boat skippers have wind-washed complexions.
Throughout this movie Berry always looks as if she could have just
stepped out of the beauty parlor, with her perfect eye-liner, her
manicured nails and her perfect tan. Her hair gets tousled every now
and then, but that's about the extent of her dishevelment. If they
wanted me to believe that she was the head of a model agency, or the
editor of a woman's magazine, I might have bought it. But a shark
expert who spends half her life on a boat? No way, Jose. And the rest
of the miscast were no more believable. 

In fairness, the cinematography was excellent. The sharks were great,
too. But they arrived about an hour and twenty minutes too late, for
which they will not be lightly forgiven by anyone who got suckered into
wasting 94 minutes of their life watching this god awful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviews who say that this movie is bad, boring, and the characters
are unlikeable simply expect a different kind of movie and have
forgotten the joy in a drama with thrilling elements.

This is not "Mission Impossible: Panties in a Twist" or whatever the
latest incarnation is. (And I do enjoy those!) This movie is is a
character study, an abundance of beautiful cinematography, and a shark
chasing thriller all in one. There is a sense of realism, especially
with the interactions between the characters, who react in line with
their own backstories- characters who are simultaneously heroic,
anti-heroic, brilliant, and ridiculously self absorbed and stupid.

Additionally, Dark Tide perfectly captured the sense of sheer peace and
quiet that consumes you once your head is below the waves in the open
ocean. I've been scuba diving all over the world, and driven a boat
like in this movie. The movie captured the sense of reverence in the
water and for the water, and took me far away to reefs of my own past.

Is it thrilling? Absolutely- the action scenes were tense, and you felt
the weight of the sharks gliding silently just inches away. Is it
slower? I was never bored. I enjoyed the characters, flaws and all. In
the end, if anything, I wanted more closure and final introspection.
But that is the only thing I found lacking. If you remotely like the
ocean and treat it as a thriller with a slower burn, you will enjoy the
movie.

6 1/2 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked Darktide mainly because of it's camera work and portrayal of
the Great White shark.

The underwater camera work appeared to be original and was impressive
in terms of continuity, unlike most shark films where footage is
borrowed from a documentary and pasted in.

The behaviour of the sharks is also more realistic, showing that people
with experience can swim with them outside the cage and not be
attacked.

The film is let down by a thin plot and bland characters.

I would rate this as the third best shark movie after Jaws(obviously)
and The Reef(underrated).
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose I can give Dark Tide some credit for its realistic, non
manipulative depiction of the great white shark. This is certainly no
monster movie. So what kind of movie is it then?

Dark Tide would have to qualify as an adventure drama, or rather an
anti adventure drama. It seems that each time director John Stockwell
goes seaward with a production, the movies get progressively worse.
Into the Blue, was entertaining, but certainly dumb. Blue Crush, was
dumb and unentertaining. This latest movie is just confused and almost
devoid of any reason to watch it.

I return to my point about Dark Tide not being a horror film. So why
then are the characters deliberately as uninteresting and obnoxious as
the cast of any Friday the 13th sequel. Halle Berry is playing the kind
of half-assed, adolescent role that I'm used to seeing Jennifer Lopez
play. Dark Tide gives you an idea of how far she has fallen in the last
ten years. She is sleeping with the fishes.

The movie lumbers along for a good hour, with nothing except the
quality of its underwater photography (getting you nose to nose with
twenty foot sharks) to keep you in your seat. The characters exchange
lines of sloppy dialogue and do silly things, until it's time for
distaster to strike, in the last half hour. It's fair to say that
Stockwell manages to generate some suspense in the climax, but he
stretches it out too long, and the camera work is disorienting.

The whole thing doesn't work. It lacks direction, intelligence, and
professional acting. For all I know, Dark Tide may just have been an
excuse for Stockwell to go diving in South Africa with the sharks and
leave the storyline behind.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to seeing DARK TIDE because I love shark movies,
even though typically you've seen one, you've seen them all! I have
even tried to see some of those ridiculous B shark movies where you
wonder how they ever got the funding to be made! The same question is
posed to this film, and why Halle Berry (an Oscar winner) signed on.
The film isn't terrible, but it fails to bring much new new to the
table.

Unlike "Deep Blue Sea," a good shark movie since "Jaws," this one ends
leaving you almost frustrated. Berry plays Kate Mathieson, a marine
biologist who was once called "the shark whisperer," but hasn't been
back in the water since the death of her mentor. That is until a rich
Englishman and his son wants to pay her $100,000 so they can swim with
sharks. Her husband (Martinez) talks her into it, and while she doesn't
promise the Englishman exactly what he wants, she still takes the
loonies out on the boat with her crew and from there just make a series
of stupid choices. She is supposed to be our movies heroin, a smart
woman, yet she agrees to this even though she has already lost someone
to a shark. Why would she want to be responsible for more? I am sure
she could have found the money another way. While the story isn't
exactly predictable you still don't know why they are even in the water
in the first place dealing with this stubborn man whom they know
nothing about, amidst the sharks mating season. Then after an argument
breaks out they decide to go to the most shark infested area of all.
Stupid! By this point you really don't care that much about its
characters since there development is only paper-thin.

I like the fact that "Dark Tide" takes place in South Africa instead of
the typical US beach locations. Unknown to me, it has the largest shark
population in the world. There are times during the film where you are
not sure what kind of film you are watching - a drama? a thriller? a
love story? If it was supposed to be a thriller it had some shocking
moments but not scary enough to really break new ground. Nothing in
regards to shark attacks we haven't already seen before. I am not sure
why two great actors signed off on this film, it wasn't a waste of time
but it wasn't the best either.

Breakaway Film http://breakawayradio.ca/film
<|_=00=_|>
I am a little perplexed by the low ratings but the question is what
does one expect from a Shark movie. People have compared it with the
deep blue sea but this movie would trounce the former hands down.
Probably the best shark movie after Jaws.

Extremely impressive camera work. True did'nt get the goose bumps but
was treated to an amazing photography especially the larger shark shots
in the Shark Alley. Halle Barry looked a little woody in the beginning
but then came into her own as he movie progresses. Oliver Martinez was
impressive though and could do with some meaty roles. This movie
deserves to be watched.
<|_=00=_|>
i actually really enjoyed this,if you like the ocean you like great
white sharks then this is perfect for you.The acting is pretty
decent,the cinematography is really good i'm mean it looks absolutely
real!o.k maybe these guys were asking for trouble,but then again there
are people that do this everyday out in South Africa and i bet if you
talked to every single one of them they could tell you of some
seriously close calls,after all you are dealing with the oceans second
top predator.(and even though sharks mistake us for food as we are not
their usual prey,rogue sharks do exist and have to be killed it happens
all over the world so anyone that says sharks don't blindly attach
humans are misinformed...anyway)I though it was better than Open Water
both one and two and if think there's been loads such as adrift etc
etc.The action is great there is some emotional depth between the two
main protagonists and to me it seemed like a very enjoyable film.I'd
give it a 6.6 out of ten.i thoroughly enjoyed it.Check it out for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an excellent movie! I'm not sure why it has such a low rating,
maybe not enough blood and guts for people.

If you want to see a movie that can show the real power, yet graceful
side of sharks this is the movie for you. It has none of the big
breasted bimbos screaming at the top of their lungs, doing nothing to
save them selves. It has a wonderful actress as a free diver, swimming
with the sharks. The dynamic between the characters is amazing, and the
characters really cause you to believe that this might actually happen.

The realness of this movie shocked me, as I thought it was going to be
another Jaws type movie, but it's far from it. The film makers really
did their research when making this movie.

So don't miss out....this is a MUST see movie if you're a shark lover.
<|_=00=_|>
If Great White Sharks thrill you and you like Ocean stories you will
enjoy this one. Ignore the poor ratings, I did and Im glad. The story
is realistic, unlike others like "Deep Blue Sea" this one is not a
Hollywood exaggeration. Cimatography is excellent in Dark Tide. If you
fear the idea of swimming with Great White Sharks out in the open ocean
of South Africa, you will be biting your nails and holding your seat.
The night shots are especially scary -and all done by situational
context -not CGI or gross exaggerations. -I almost had to Fast Forward
through the night scenes because I was so on edge. The character drama
and the relationships between the characters was well developed. Acting
was excellent. What else would you expect from Holly Berry and Oliver
Martinez? I am literally 1 Hour and 28 Minutes into the movie where the
final climax is about to start, when it hit me that this movie deserves
a GOOD review. No way its a 4.3 rating. If you like Ocean thrillers,
based on realistic plot then check this one out, you wont be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
i love shark films, whether it jaws, deep blue sea or red water i Love
'em.

they can be cheesy and tongue in cheek and unrealistic but not dark
tide.

the script was average at best and characters were flawed and acting
could have been stronger, however the story was simple and in places
took its time but not a bad film at all.

the shark footage and underwater scenes were best par none and i have
never...NEVER seen such a realistic shark attack in any film, the first
one really catches you off guard.

easy to watch and easy to enjoy.
