
After reading so many negative reviews I was actually considering not
going to watch it....

I was expecting the worst I even took my android phone in case it was
really bad and I could of played a couple of games.

This film doesn't follow the Hollywood method it doesn't have a normal
ending, characters are not printed on politically correct paper.

I found the reactions of the people involved to be realistic, normal
people with small minds and grasping to small problems in a situation
they have no control over..

A humankind shown to be 99.999% normal petty and none heroic.

We watch so many films that follow a formula that show man out to be
this amazing being who always survives always wins we are so use to
being saved and its not really true is it ? We don't have a ace pilot
or elitist hacker we don't have a superhero to fix it all, we be in
trouble if something more advanced than us comes to play.

To me this makes it an awesome film and strangely I found the rest of
the people in the cinema of the same mind as soon as the film finished
people I didn't know started discussing it as a bit of fresh air.

If you like your films like independence day or Armageddon or any film
where humankind are groomed and praised where a prayer to the gods or a
speech by the president saves the day then you probably won't like this
movie.

I look forward to seeing skyline 2
<|_=00=_|>
They drop from the sky with no warning. They do seemingly inexplicable
things. They are capable of things that defy human experience. And we
see it from the perspective of people we have no real connection to.

My first thoughts were something like, "How are K-Fed and Bobby Brown
gonna save the planet?" Turns out, I need not have wondered.

What I thought the movie did very well was tell the story from the
point of view of a handful of people that have no extraordinary
attributes whatsoever. Disaster movies tend to have characters able to
overcome improbable odds to somehow accomplish some measure of victory
for Earth and/or humanity. Not so in Skyline. We have an apparently
successful recording artist living the high life in L.A. and his
friend, who possesses some measure of marketing talent. Rounded out
with girlfriends, other assorted attractive female hangers-on, and what
appears to be one of the security guards of the condominium complex in
which the recording artist resides.

As far from "everyday normal" as this group might seem to be, they
could very easily be real people, particularly in La-La Land. And the
best part is that they reacted to events in a very normal, everyday
human way. Weird stuff happens, and so they try to make sense of it,
try to get a look at what's going on. And what they see makes no sense.
There are no moments of inspired intuition, no really extraordinary
feats of heroism or even ordinary ones.

Every plan of action the characters come up with fails, their
safe-zones continually diminish, and characters are inexorably picked
off. This is mirrored by the larger reaction of the military and their
attempts to resist the alien menace. While slightly more successful in
causing some injury to the aliens, their ultimate futility is seen when
what looks to be an incredibly agile stealth bomber dances and dodges
its way through aerial combat to release the Hail-Mary tactical nuke
missile even as it is finally shot down. We follow the missile as it
tracks toward the largest of alien craft and BOOM! Lots of bright light
and big noise, and we see the alien vessel crashing to the ground as a
smoldering wreck. Yay! But wait, holy crap, and oh noes! The aliens
have regenerative/repair abilities congruent with their clearly
organic-machine nature. The actors best moments come when they convey
the despair and frustration of seeing every soap-bubble of hope
unavoidably popped.

Earth is a rich and rare cache of resources presumably not found in
many places in the vast, cold reaches of space. The aliens are here to
secure their own continued survival with our delicious goodies. Our own
species does this exact same thing to plants and animals across the
globe. So what more motivation do the aliens need? And how could we
realistically resist? None, and we can't, any more than the Amazon or
marine life could. I don't know how much more "real" the story could
get.

The movie doesn't satisfy the audience with a heroic victory for
mankind. Or any victory, for that matter. And in this, it bucks the
seemingly inescapable trend for reassuring us with some message about
how adhering to noble virtues will allow us to win out in the end. To
me, the film demonstrated exactly how fragile and small we and our
planet are in the grander scheme of the universe. It's an ugly, cold
truth, and we might prefer to be deluded that we can overcome if we
just (add inspiring platitude here). But if our real-life local and
global disasters are any indication, those sorts of wins only come at
the very end and from the efforts of survivors after the fact. In the
scenario this movie presents, we won't get that chance. Were aliens
ever to come knocking, humanity as it is now is simply boned. And
that's it.

Lots of people will not like or want to hear that message from a work
of fiction. But I think the makers of this film deserve credit for
their much more likely message of futility. It's not something we get a
lot of from movies. Every now and again, it's a nice change from the
improbable happy ending.
<|_=00=_|>
First, let's work on some maths: "Skyline" is an alien invasion flick
that has a touted US$10 million budget! This amount is a shoestring for
an alien attack film - it is not even enough to pay the salary of an
A-list star! So now you can do the maths and understand why there are
no big stars here.

If you had seen the trailer you might have been impressed by the CGI
effects of the tentacled UFOs. This is probably where all the money
have gone. Everything else, from its lame script and B-grade TV stars
to its sets, are all hotch-potch and downright rudimentary. It is an
exploitation film that seems destined for DVD.

Synopsis: After a night of heavy partying at a posh condo in Los
Angeles, a bunch of friends are awakened in the early hours by
mysterious beams of light from the skyline. Those who gaze on the light
get entranced - like moths to a flame and get 'burnt up'. Yup, the
alien ships have landed and the survivors at the condo unit, Jarrod
(Eric Balfour) and his fiancée (Scottie Thompson, pictured below with
Balfour), and their friends Terry (Donald Faison of TV's "Scrubs") and
Candice (Brittany Daniel) must find a way to escape the aliens' grasp.
But where can they run? There are so many things wrong with the movie
that I don't know where to begin. The film, directed by the Brothers
Strause who did the effects for "The X-FIles", centres the action
inside the condo unit so much that we get the impression that LA is
deserted and the only folks left are those in the half-empty building.
No attempt is made to show the scope of the 'body snatching' and its
effects on the millions of other city-dwellers.

Next, the main characters are being portrayed as such selfish and
unsavoury people that we root for the aliens to take them away. This
may be because the writers have not bothered to flesh out their
backgrounds, except for a few predictable turns. The only one who comes
on as real is David Sayas (of TV's "Dexter" fame) who plays the
building supervisor. Also, the dialogue is lame and clichéd. The
writers must have had the notion that audience interest can be
sustained if they have the characters yell at one another.

There's no doubt that Strause brothers provide exhilarating special
effects - but they need to work on getting a good story to go with
their CGI magic. Otherwise it is just a damn waste.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised this move is not higher rated. I think its one of the
best science fiction/monster movies to come out in some time.

Awesome special effects in this one, with nice designs for the monsters
and the alien ships and tech. The movie is creatively shot and I like
how focused the plot was on the few main characters. A wonderful sense
of doom pervades the whole film, with no cheap typical Hollywood
miraculous escapes or happy endings. It was refreshing to see a movie
focus on a grim and frightening reality of an unstoppable alien
invasion without the typical cheesy silliness of movies like say,
"Independence Day".

Maybe people don't like it because of its pessimistic and unrelenting
dismal tone, but I appreciate a director who steadfastly focuses on
this aspect of hopelessness in the face of a vastly superior advanced
alien force and it makes sense and feels real because of this decision.

Another thing I enjoyed was how the movie at first seemed like it was
going to be a shallow, typical Hollywood movie focused on young
attractive people who like to party but then the movie shifted gears
abruptly to a deadly serious tone which it then kept until the end,
which I very much liked, how it faked me out in this way.

Would love to see a sequel and I think the movie hints strongly that
the story is not done.
<|_=00=_|>
I see many posters claims Skyline is the 'worst movie ever' - that
isn't even close to true. This $10 million movie was way better than
the $100 million Van Helsing. And also way better than Johnny Mnemonic
which is the gold standard by which I judge all bad movies. I actually
liked Skyline. It was by no means a great movie but props to the film
makers for skipping all of the alien invasion clichés and going with
something original. One poster compared it to a zombie movie and I did
notice the similarity when I was watching it. The plot does have far
more in common with a typical zombie movie than you usual alien
invasion movie. Also, way more realistic than any alien invasion movie
I've ever seen. Independence Day was fun to watch but it was just
cotton candy not serious science fiction.
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily the worst movie I've seen this year. It's saying
something when the writing is so bad that even an end-of-the-world
alien invasion can't stop boring you senseless.

The characters are passive participants to the events around them. Sure
they scream on cue, but their lives and struggles are devoid of feeling
and emotions. The film lacks the frantic pace of the somewhat similar
Cloverfield where the characters and their environment felt desperate
and chaotic. Instead we get destruction without fear and survival
without passion.

I'm a big sci-fi fan, but I honestly can't remember the last time I was
this bored in the theater despite a few moments of great special
effects. Avoid this movie at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Aliens descend on Los Angeles out of the blue, surround the young casts
condo, and prepare to finish them off, then the movie switches to "15
hours earlier". What more import information could we possibly need to
know, what the characters exchanged for birthday presents? The
switch-up kind of made me want to leave the theater. Instead of
wondering, who got what as a housewarming present, I was wondering if
the theater would give out a refund 10 minutes into a movie. Guess I'm
OK with skipping character development. Skyline picks up quick enough
after the reset, I did like the movie. In other films, such as the
recent District 9, character isn't really developed - the hero's
character is revealed as he's exposed to greater and greater stress.

I should admit I'm a fool for these alien invasion movies, I even give
Battlefield Earth 8 of 10 stars. Some of the dialogue in Skyline seems
a bit off, but at least it's not safe, politically correct or
predictable. At times the dialogue is off on purpose. When one of the
characters says something like, "we're OK now" you just know something
really bad is about to happen. It's almost a cue.

For some Skyline will conjure up images of 9/11. Other's have already
taken parts of the movie as a metaphor for rampant consumerism. I felt
the attack was a metaphor for the 'illegal alien' invasion of the
present day. More specifically, I guess, a replay of the phenomenon of
black guys sleeping with a lot (I assume) of white girls. Tragedy after
tragedy befall our young heroes and in the end one of the young girls
sums it all up by saying, "I hate Los Angeles". In no way is it funny.

There was some infighting among the groups of survivors, perhaps less
than in some movies but I felt there was still a bit too much of it.
The sympathetic adult our cast befriend has to keep telling one of the
young men something like, "Don't bury your head and hope this goes
away", "It's real". When the alien machines turn out to be powered by
human brains the guy beside me at the theater cringed. He had a valid
reaction. White people aren't That smart. The evidence isn't looking
too good on that. Besides, brains don't really seem to be what they are
after.

At times the movie switches into the mode of fantasy. Some of the
American aircraft appear to be models we've never seen before and they
have odd sizes and shapes (not sure I've ever rooted for American
airplanes this much before). At other times the cast remain remarkably
unaffected by the action on screen. It's not even just narrow escapes.
Skyline is such an intense movie, and frightening, the fantasy element
may help cut down on the tension. I wonder if the disjointed beginning
also keeps the movie from being too frightening. When it's revealed
we're sort of fighting ourselves it adds even more creepiness and
perhaps provides some afterthoughts (of hopelessness) to the
experience.

Do we ever actually see the aliens? Did they even bother to land on
Earth, or just send army sucking probes here? Why didn't the aliens use
robot brains instead of harvesting zombies. Are they tapping into some
kind of unknown 'life force'. Is it a matter of invading on a budget?
We'll never know unless there's a sequel. Maybe instead of Alien vs
Predator, Cloverfield vs Skyline. Both movies are very similar,
actually. Maybe both attacks come from the same intelligence. A sequel
seems unlikely, though, this movie can be summed up with the words 'we
lose'. The main thing going for Skyline (aside from the fear, action
and horror) is the ending. The ending is atypical: bleak, realistic,
frightening, with again just a touch of fantasy to ease it through.
<|_=00=_|>
...but to be quite honest, it isn't that bad. 

Actually an OK B-Movie. 

All of the complaints against the acting are, for the most part,
unfounded. It's not academy award winning material, but i think pretty
much everyone involved gives competent performances. 

And i'm not sure what people wanted from the dialogue. These are
regular people in way over their heads in the middle of an alien
invasion. 

I thought the dialogue was not an issue. 

The ending DID push the limits a bit, but at the same time I guess it
was the only conceivable way to end on a hopeful note, given that the
entirety of the film showed us how screwed humanity was against these
guys. 

This was not anywhere near the abomination that was Aliens Vs.
Predator: Requiem. 

I'd probably rank it a solid 6.5/10. 

And i have to admit i'm as surprised as anyone by that. Movie does NOT
deserve the critical hate it's getting.
<|_=00=_|>
Well just got back from seeing this and sorry critics, but me and my
wife both enjoyed it.

It's not a masterpiece, and not original, but I found it entertaining.
I don't know why people are complaining about a lack of plot, it's
basically a slasher movie - lots of dislikable people get knocked of in
entertaining ways. That's worked for many movies before it, and it
works here. It's basically a knock off of Cloverfield, and not as good,
but still good fun.

It's not a 'Plan 9 from outer space' but it does have a 50s B-movie
sensibility about it. I think the only thing it was missing was a bit
of humour to acknowledge the basic silliness of all - Independence Day
was better in that regard. To be honest I enjoyed this more than
Spielbergs War Of The Worlds, which I found annoying, disjointed and
boring.

Great SFX I thought, lots of video-game images brought to the big
screen (Quake, Gears Of War, Resistance Fall of Man etc.) and couple of
scenes that are genuinely spectacular, especially given the budget
relative to something like Avatar (now that was a boring film!).

I can't say I was one of those really desperate to see this from the
trailer, and perhaps lower expectations helped, but it no way deserves
the critical panning it has received.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare that I'll give a movie an 'awful' review - I can usually find
something of interest, even if it's only of interest to me! Having just
been to see Skyline however, I felt numbed and cheated - I hadn't paid,
but I still felt I was owed some money back... With no likable
characters, a 'plot' that goes from bad to worse to literally nothing,
it's difficult to recommend anything about the movie. I've already had
my fingers burnt by the Brothers Strause before - when they took 2 much
loved franchises in Alien and Predator and made their fans weep. That
film, just like this one, has some cool looking set pieces but
absolutely nothing of value to tie them together - totally refusing to
give the viewer any reason to care about what they've churned out.

Avoid. Avoid. Avoid.
