
Daddy's Home is an awful movie with a very poorly developed storyline
that is all a set up for poor jokes, and an impressive comedic cast
that all just felt wasted. There are some funny parts in it, but sadly
those parts were also in the trailer, so we are left with good bits
that are no longer funny cause we've seen them all already, and a ton
of lame, immature jokes such as watching Will Ferrell get electrocuted
or a ridiculous dance off between Mark Wahlberg and Bill Burr. Ferrell
and Wahlberg really weren't the stars of this movie because any
chemistry that the two certainly have is thrown away with poor
development, as well as the fact that both of their characters are
unlikeable, it was hard to tell who we were suppose to root for,
neither of them was really an antagonist or protagonist. The only two
people who really seemed to enjoy being a part of this movie were
Thomas Haden Church and Hannibal Buress, they did have me genuinely
laughing in their scenes, and for the time they're on screen we can
forget about how poor, unfunny, poorly edited and regretful this movie
is. Lacking energy, heart and original comedy, Daddy's Home kills any
potential it has, and you would be much better off avoiding it. 

Brad finally gets the two children of his wife to look up to him as a
father figure, but all his effort is thrown away when their dead beat
father returns. 

Best Performance: Thomas Haden Church
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a sensitive stepfather who is disliked by
his two stepchildren, despite trying super hard to win the kids'
hearts. One day, the biological father shows up at the doorstep, and a
big oneupmanship ensues.

"Daddy's Home" shows two likable fathers by they are so different from
each other. Their competition is full on, the jokes are very funny but
does not feel silly at all. The best thing is that Mark Wahlberg's
character is super attractive and charming in almost every way. He says
the right thing all the time, he can criticise and manipulate the other
father unreasonably and yet you would find yourself agreeing with his
half twisted logic.

"Daddy's Home" is way better than I expected and I really enjoyed
watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfunny, forced and wrong in pretty much every place Daddy's Home is
another stupid film starring god-awful actor Will Ferrell. I like Mark
Wahlberg but my god he goes from good movies like Lone Survivor to this
crap. This movie also takes logic out like that scene with the bike or
the scenes with the Skateboard. The best scene from the movie was the
ending where John Cena appears and Triple H Metallica song starts
playing other than that the movie sucks. Go see a better comedy not
this one. Final Rating 4/10 dumb and stupid in every possible way.
Michael Bay's Transformers 4 had better acting and scenes than this
film has in 1 hour. 

PS: John Cena the only good part of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a fan of Wahlberg and Ferrell's last outing The Other Guys and
thought that this movie could also be decent. The plot is something we
have seen hundreds of times before, but it could still deliver on some
laughs. Sadly, I was wrong as this turned out to be another mediocre
comedy for Ferrell and another comedic bomb for Wahlberg.

Good: Every once in a while there is a joke that works. Hannibal Buress
who delivers some dry lines works and is my personal highlight.
Wahlberg and Ferrell do work hard and it comes across that they really
get along with each other.

Bad: The humor just doesn't work for the whole movie. It is all typical
confrontational humor that results in very little laughs. It just all
reeks of mediocrity making the movie a dull experience. Linda
Cardellini is just there to react to the constant fighting and nothing
else. It just doesn't stand out in any way.

Overall, there are better Wahlberg and Ferrell comedies out there. A
talented cast reduced to lackluster gags and little in the way of any
laughs or memorable scenes. Something that you will forget within four
hours after you watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Anchorman, Talladega Nights, Blades of Glory, even The Other Guys. This
is the level of comedy I expect when I watch a Will Ferrell movie -
insanely witty, funny dialogue, with some of the only truly funny
slapstick scenes around thrown in to boot.

This movie has none of that. I laughed out loud once, and sniggered a
few times. The script smacked of someone out of ideas, the acting came
across as forced as a consequence, and the final result is a movie
aimed at no more than a juvenile audience. Numerous scenes had to be
taken to ridiculous extremes because they simply weren't naturally
comical.

Whalberg puts in a great performance given what he had to work with,
but this doesn't make the movie worth seeing. I
<|_=00=_|>
This is actually pretty funny. It's not the most sophisticated comedy,
but you should know that even before watching this. Mark Wahlberg
showing off his perks ... I mean comedic talents again. Also his
muscles yes (for those who care). There are quite a few jokes that go
below the belt (even literally), but it's all kept pretty light, if you
don't mind that direction in general.

Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg have lots of fun, playing off each other
and being "enemies". The ending kind of could be seen as a "things to
come" kind of thing, which might ring true, with Part 2 already
announced (though the movie as I know did not make that much business
in Germany at least). Still you get what the box/cover promises after
all, so why complain?
<|_=00=_|>
'Daddy's Home' is the second collaboration between Will Ferrell and
Mark Wahlberg, the first being 2010's 'The Other Guys'. There's no
doubt the two have chemistry. What there is doubt about is how to
perfectly utilise each of the two as characters. The problem is that
for Wahlberg's confident, in-charge character (which he has to play) to
work Ferrell needs to play the straight guy and that isn't when he's at
his best. He does it well there's no doubt about it, but he's at his
best when his character has an edge to him like 'Ron Burgundy' or his
character in 'Step Brothers'. Playing the overly straight guy just
seems almost a waste for the one Ferrell movie we get a year, even
though no one could deny he still does it very well. 

The difference in quality between this and 'Get Hard' is noticeable.
There, Kevin Hart was unable to find a chemistry with Ferrell and it
just turned into the two competing with each other trying to make the
movie their own. Here that's not the case. Wahlberg seems happy to let
Ferrell take the reins and is comfortable just doing what he does best,
with his laid back, dry sense of humour accompanying Ferrell perfectly. 

There are consistent laughs throughout, but perhaps not one stand out
scene that will be memorable for years to come. It doesn't push the
envelope as much as other Ferrell movies have in the past either. I
really would love to see him always be given free rein to say and do as
he pleases but also understand why that can't always be the case. If
you're just looking to get your annual fix of a bit of Ferrell hilarity
then you won't be disappointed. If you are looking for a game-changer,
perhaps wait for the next one.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to confess that for the most part, Will Ferrell kind of
mystifies me; I don't see what makes him so popular with the mass
public. Still, I have to confess that in "Daddy's Home", he tones it
down so he isn't strident like he is in other movies. In fact, he does
end up having some charm and likability, and paired up with Mark
Wahlberg (another actor who usually doesn't impress me), some genuine
chemistry is generated. Also, director Sean Anders wisely lessens the
raunch factor that is usually high in in the two stars' other movie;
there is an easy-going feeling instead that is quite palatable, a
feeling that does sneak up on you and does tickle your funny bone on
occasion. However, in the end there are not quite enough laughs to make
me give it a recommendation. As I said in my summary line, the movie is
quite formulaic; you can really predict what will happen before it
actually happens throughout. Since there are no surprises, it becomes
very difficult for the movie to pull the rug out under the audience and
generate laughs. There are many comedies that are much worse than this,
I admit, but in the end it's only a movie to watch when something else
in your home is asking for your primary attention.
<|_=00=_|>
No, no, no. This is a movie about Mark Walberg being really really fit
and about bad jokes and bad CGI. Nothing more, nothing less. Five is
more than generous for this movie. It sucks seeing Will Ferell also,
making these lousy movies all the time. Get someone to write a decent
script and some nice jokes, for God's sake! 

The part where the motorcycle gets in the house and exits from the
window on the car, is not only unrealistic (Dah!) but it's also really
really bad CGI. This is where I first thought that the movie is utter
nonsense. Then, the skateboard incident came and I was like "the CGI
dude should really pay them back (if he wasn't just doing his practice,
straight out of school or something!). 

The story is interesting and there have been some moments in the movie
when it actually worked but there was no flow in there. The story was
interrupted constantly by moments of stupid humour or poor choices in
plot, not letting you get into it for more than five minutes. 

While it could have been a movie both serious but with some really nice
laughs, it was not. Mark Walberg is not the star actor, but I mean,
come on. Do you really need to be making these movies? Will Ferell is
beyond saving I think. He has not done a decent movie for quite a
while, sticking to similar concepts and almost always playing the same
character that has stopped being funny on so many levels.
<|_=00=_|>
Given how much I loved "The Other Guys",I was pretty excited to see
Ferrel and Wahlberg back together again. But it turns out that "Daddy's
Home" is for the most part just a normal family friendly comedy. It
lacks the edge and twisted humor you'll normally find in Will Ferrel
movies.

Since this is a spoiler free review I'm not going to say too much about
the plot. Will Ferrel plays the role of "Brad", who is working his ass
off trying to be the new dad for the two children in his new family.
But suddenly one day their real dad, played by Wahlberg, shows up with
a plan to win his family back. From there on out everything is pretty
predictable. In fact, if you replaced Will Ferrel with Adam Sandler you
might think to yourself "have I seen this before?"

If you're expecting a movie in the style of "The Other Guys", you will
be disappointed. If you just want to relax with a typical family
comedy, it's pretty good. You just might want to have your youngest
kids sit this one out.
