
I wasn't expecting that much from this going in, but grew interested
very early as we were introduced to Patrick Dempsey's character as a
strange man with a very gifted, sort of neurotic mind. It does start
with two sets of robbers with very different backgrounds and
techniques. One a very professional veteran crew of highly skilled
robbers with a well laid out plan. The other was a pair of absolute
complete idiots without the slightest clue of what they are doing. One
team is after the vault the others after the ATM's. So a loose pact is
made between them. As for what comes next, let's say there are a lot of
very entertaining high jinx between the hostages and the robbers, there
is twists and turns and even more twists and turns as Dempsey's
character leads viewers all around with his witty and neurotic
behavior, he is the glue to the film and acts as the glue to the
"flypaper" as everyone gets stuck one by one, You won't be figuring out
what is happening next and the surprise ending is sure to leave you
with a smirk............
<|_=00=_|>
Two separate bank robberies go down at the same time, at the same bank.
The hi-tech wizard robberies go for the vault and the redneck hick
robbers go for the ATM machines. Things get more complicated when a
Rain Man like character is stuck inside and believes that there is
something else going down as well.

Flypaper is an under the radar flick that surprises those who give it a
chance. It stars Patrick Dempsy in the Rain Man role, he plays a
character obsessed with every little detail and he thinks that there is
something more sinister going down than the two bank robberies. He
enters into detective mode to figures things out, which makes for
hilarious situations between the two groups of robbers and the
hostages. Dempsy has a crush on one of the bank tellers, played by
Ashley Judd in a pretty forgettable performance. Two comedic highlights
belong to the redneck robbers played by the always reliable Tim Blake
Nelson and the larger than life Pruitt Taylor Vince, better known as
Otis from Walking Dead. They play well off each other and the other
actors. They are the more eccentric of the characters who run into
problems every turn they take. 

The film plays out like a mystery, as the audience has to piece
together who shot who and why. Are the bank robberies related?
Coincidence? Are people who they say they are? All these questions keep
us intrigued in the story and the humour keeps us entertained
throughout. It kind of plays out like a modern version of the 1985
comedy Clue, as people die and characters are running around trying to
figure out the who and why. 

There are twists and turns and the film isn't as predictable as one
would think. Just when you think you know what's going on, it pulls the
rug out from under you. I managed to predict one twist before the
revelation and gave myself a pat on the back for it. Others managed to
surprise me. As a bank heist film, it places a nice spin on things.
Usually when bank robberies go awry it turns into a hostage situation
with police, yet Flypaper isn't interested in that aspect. It chooses
to stay inside the bank the whole time.

Flypaper works and it never confuses the viewer despite the amount of
information it throws across the screen. Dempsy is convincing as the
oddball whose good with numbers and the supporting characters are seem
to be having a good time. The film isn't afraid to poke fun at itself,
which gives the film a light hearted tone. Flypaper is a wonderful
surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
VAGUE SPOILERS - NOTHING DETAILED OR CONCRETE GIVEN AWAY

Flypaper is essentially about a bank robbery where 2 sets of thieves
stumble into the same bank at the same time causing a dilemma and
confusion between everyone. One group is comprised of 3 professionals
that come prepared with high tech equipment and skill, Darrien, Gates &
Weinstein & the other consists of 2 goofy hicks who go by the nicknames
Peanut Butter & Jelly who lack the intelligence & experience that the
other group possesses. Hilarity and hijinks ensue as the 2 sets of
criminals need to work together to control the hostages as they
simultaneously try to steal money from the bank. However, all is not as
it seems as people, including the robbers end up dying & it is revealed
that it's no coincidence that those 2 sets of thieves showed up at the
same bank at the same time - they were set up by another bank robber
who is also in the bank and there might be other robbers hidden amongst
the group as well who were planning on stealing money.

At one point, the two sets of robbers are arguing about who has better
street cred and to settle the score go on a website that ranks the most
wanted bank robbers. This is where we are shown the names of some top
thieves, thieves whose profiles conveniently don't have pictures
attached (just a missing photo question mark). Two top robbers,
Vicellus Drum (#1) & Alexis Black (#3) are mentioned aloud which of
course had me immediately assuming they were in the bank masquerading
as hostages - whether I was supposed to pick up on that or not I don't
know. I'll just say that I figured out right away who Alexis Black was
so when that twist about her was revealed, I saw it coming a mile away.
The identity of Vicellus Drum, however, was a solid mystery. By the
way, why would I assume there were more robbers in the bank than the
initial ones? It's revealed early on that the system was down for about
2 minutes & someone said aloud that they were surprised that more
criminals didn't show up to rob the place after it was revealed that
the tech man who controls the bank's security system was selling the
information about it being down around. It was a big red flag.

Overall, the movie is funny and clever and most definitely entertaining
but my main gripe, a huge hole I just couldn't suspend my belief for..
was the fact that no matter what went on inside the bank, no one
outside seemed to be aware and certainly no one called the police. At
the very beginning when the robbers first storm the bank, the silent
alarm is hit but doesn't work. This is said clearly on screen by the
employee trying to set it off. However, throughout the course of the
movie there were numerous, loud, bombastic gun fights - no less than
200 bullets were fired from all different types of guns: rifles,
shotguns, handguns, etc.. which of course incited lots of screaming.
There were also four humongous blasts that created fireballs & did
major structural damage to the bank (2, maybe 3 of which were detonated
with C-4 / 1 a big gas explosion) yet apparently NO ONE on the street
outside or in the surrounding buildings called the cops or heard
anything which is just so moronic that it makes my head hurt. This was
not a bank in the middle of a rural farmland in Kansas with the closest
town being a mile away. This was a bank on a normal city street with a
sidewalk full of people right outside the front door and neighboring
businesses right next to the bank. How did no one hear the earth
shattering bombs that were going off inside the bank? How did no one
hear the gunfire that was booming inside? I kept waiting for someone
from law enforcement to at the very least knock on the front doors &
was wondering how the robbers would deal with it but that never came.
I'm willing to suspend belief for a movie but this was just impossible
to ignore & definitely downgraded the film for me.

6/10 It wasn't fantastic but it was worth one watch. Lastly, I want to
point out that the acting is very strong from everyone in the movie
especially Pruitt Taylor Vince & Tim Blake Nelson's bumbling, doofy
Peanut Butter & Jelly & Patrick Dempsey's Tripp who is a neurotic,
overly stimulated, gifted man with lots of quirks. The characters are
fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The moment the fun started in the movie, I was laughing out loud till
the very end. Its got intelligent, witty and sarcasm type of humor and
never fails to make your belly hurt. If anyone ever actually did a
ROFL, it would be while watching this movie.

Its got a plot inside a plot, which makes it a very clever piece of
entertainment. Not for once, would you confused about the state of
events. Its depicted in a clear manner, which would be understood to
all.

I don't believe I've seen a similar plot in any movie which makes this
very original and different. With all the humor, twists and the
whodunit, its a definite watch.

If you haven't seen it yet, what are you waiting for..
<|_=00=_|>
"Are you seriously suggesting that we rob the same bank?" While talking
to a teller (Judd) about change (Dempsey) a bank robbery begins to take
place. When signals get mixed Tripp realizes that there are two groups
of robbers. After explaining to them they can rob the same bank right
now he tries to figure out why two groups are there and who tipped them
off. This is a very surprising movie. Full of action and very funny.
The cast is great and for a little movie it pulls in some really big
names. This is the most fun I've had watching a movie in a while and
while it's not an amazing Oscar worthy movie it is very much worth
watching. An updated action version of "Clue". Equal parts action,
comedy & mystery with a great twist at the end. I recommend this
highly. Overall, a very very exciting and fun way to spend an hour and
a half. I give it a B+.

Would I watch again? - I think I would.

*Also try - Clue & Henry's Crime
<|_=00=_|>
There comes a time in every criminal's life when he has to make
sacrifices. "Flypaper" takes place in a bank where two criminal groups
have simultaneously arrived to rob the place. But this is not a crime
drama; it's a dark comedy revolving around some very unlikely
characters. Namely, Tripp (Patrick Dempsey), an autistic hero of sorts
who is super-observant but unable to behave appropriately.

Tripp enters the bank at closing time but calculating the movements of
everyone around him he guesses what is about to occur and jumps over
the counter to save the pretty teller (Ashley Judd). In the scramble
that ensues, there is one dead body, a room full of huddled bank
employees-turned-hostages, and then Tripp, standing there, trying to
negotiate a peace accord. It should be made very clear at this point
that this is a comedy and is far from realistic.

The film really does seem like it was trying to be a funny, comedic,
chaotic mess. And that's exactly what it is. The characterizations,
although unique in some cases, are messy. The many twists and turns,
perhaps a half-dozen too many, are messy. But is it really necessary to
fault a film when it accomplishes exactly what it set out to do? 

What "Flypaper" really accomplishes is a low-budget indie version of
"Ocean's Eleven" but with a "who done it" mystery angle. Sometimes
slapstick, frequently zany, but also sometimes clever, it's comedy
first, crime second, and realism nowhere to be found.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a crime comedy which really delivers the comedy.Small scenes
acted out perfectly and the movie had a bright feel to it which made it
more interesting to watch.

Casting was nice.The actors really fit to the roles they were given and
the mystery remains a mystery till the very end.Again, the humor in
this movie was really good.There was all kinds of comedy based on
situations that fit the style perfectly.

Very often you see a movie with such good understanding of the
Characters. The plot is very simple and movie seems a bit predictable
in the beginning BUT of-course its not.The story is very original and
Patrick Dempsey's character "Tripp Kennedy" is which i liked the
most.He's interesting,really.

So, its a bank robbery with two robbery-teams that plan to rob the same
bank at the same time (this is funny already).There's a little feel of
black comedy and also a bit of "Stupid-eh-ism" which really is fun.

Its a movie you can just watch (with the more the merrier) for a lot of
laughs and a few great laughs and have a great time and also relax all
in all.

I rate it 7.7/10

Hope This Helps. Thank You for reading my review.HAPPY VIEWING

-Ajit
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not for a lazy mind. 

That the robbers, all of them, find themselves in the bank confronted
with such a dilemma before thirty minutes in from a 100min film
presents a great challenge for a writer, and an audience. Do not
despair; the film is good. A smart audience will, with the numbers
cruncher 'rain man' in the bank(Dempsey), eventually to catch on that
there's more than meets the eye. 

Hollywood and 'the pundits' seem to have some rigid ideology of what
and how a film like this should be. They are wrong. Simply having two
dumb as dirt hillbillies as the opposing robbers(vs the geniuses) is
brilliant. Chaos. We become an audience, trying to piece things
together, but the pieces we receive constantly lead to an entirely
different twist. Sweet. We receive the answer long before the end, but
again, like a piece of a puzzle. 

It a who done, who is it, crime, mystery, comedy, action...the works.
definitely not a big-screen flick, but absolutely for the guys and a
sixpack. Good entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is funny comedy. Congratulation Rob Minkoff.The story is
very original, very effective scenes,actually every scene is funny on
her own way,also,the scenes are short and that can be sometimes very
funny.The end of the movie is unpredictable and that is the point of
whole movie. For me it is excellent,end of the movie - something
unpredictable, like it. From the beginning until the end of movie,there
are funny talks, funny body moves, funny situations, all that with
little black humor. So if you tired or bored this is excellent movie to
relax and have beautiful smile on you face. 

"Flyparer" - great 87 min.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is severely underrated and for me, its one of the best crime
comedies of decade. 

summary:

At a bank heist, two groups accidentally choose the same bank with
multiple hostages. The thing is, hostages have got the gun, robbers
haven't albeit both are too dumb to realize it. But wait, there's more
to it than this froth sounding storyline, there is a third robbery
secretively going on! I assure you I haven't give out even nanograms of
details. Another thing, the cast is amazing, acting of dumb robbers, is
best of all. And this movie has so many twists and turns, surprising
ones, not those which will let you bang your fist at seat in sheer
frustration, that it keeps your nail chewed out by the time it ends.
Though there is a great clue in the mid of the movie, about the
culprit, but nonetheless, director has done well to bind the tits and
bits of movies all together and present it as a crime caper. And last
thing I expected, laughing while watching a heist movie. Dialogues are
witty, clever and Dripsey as Sherlock Holmes to this Agatha Christie
style movie is brilliant with his role. Ashley judds is getting older
but she plays a nice role. Rest assured you'll scarcely find such an
entertaining package at one place

9/10 for me!
