
First of all, it is an Adam Sandler movie. If you hate Adam Sandler
movies, then you won't like this.

I gave it an 8/10 because it was one of the better Adam Sandler movies.
The plot and storyline was better than I expected; the development was
pretty good as well. There were definitely a lot of points where I had
to slap my forehead b/c it was silly funny.

Yeah, its highly unrealistic, but if you expected realism, whats wrong
with you? Sure, Jennifer Anniston is the "uglier chick," which is like
saying a million dollars isn't that much money, but she did a good job
in the movie.

The only complaint I had was Adam Sandler used all the lines I planned
on using with the girl I took to see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a bloke of 32. I took the other half to watch this last night as I
do enjoy Comedy's. Not much of a cinema goer as tend to be the one
saying 'ooh I knew I wanted to see that' when the film gets released
and then completely forget to actually go.

I was in absolute stitches watching this, it's by far the funniest film
I've seen in a long-long time. Normally watching a comedy I'd chuckle
and laugh a bit but I was actually laughing out loud almost the whole
film - as were a most of the other viewers in the cinema.

I do like (as my missus puts it) 'stupid comedy's' like; Anchor Man,
Dodgeball and Hear no Evil See No Evil etc. so this is where I'm coming
from.

I think the whole cast was near on perfect with Adam Sandler providing
hilarious moments throughout, with Jenifer Aniston sexier and funnier
than I've ever known her to be. if you watch the film you'll know that
Dolf Lungren was side splitting at times and The kids worked really
well especially Keekee-D's Mary Poppins English Accent!.... Oh and not
to fortget the beautiful blonde :)

All in all an absolute hoot and would thoroughly recommend it to
anyone.

Would have given it a 10/10 but nothings perfect :) so its a 9/10 from
me.

ps. Just go with it hit the spot so much that this is the first film
review I have ever done!
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen almost all of Jennifer Aniston's movies and most of them I
really did not like. So my expectations of "Just go with it" were very
low. But I was pleasantly surprised to find that I was laughing with
tears in my eyes the first 20min of watching this movie and I didn't
stop laughing till the screen showed black.

Al though the movie almost is 2 hours long, I wasn't bored at any time.
The story was well written, the acting was amazing and hilarious and it
was original in it's jokes. It did have a typical ending, but for once
it didn't bother me because of the good build up in the story and the
development of the characters.

If you do have a weakness for typical comedy movies, but can't seem to
find a good one these days, definitely check out this one: laughter
guaranteed!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a highly intellectual movie, forget it. This is
a simple movie with a simple story line and simple jokes. However, if
you like to go to the movies just to break the routine, to have some
laughs, and to change your mind, this is an excellent movie. Most
highly critical people looking for perfection will give this movie a
bad review, no doubt. People who gave an 8 to True Grit will not
appreciate this movie...

Acting is excellent. Jennifer Aniston is perfect in that role; this is
her best performance in a movie so far, except maybe for Marley and Me.
Adam Sandler is much more natural than usual. He does not have to
deliver all of the stupid jokes, and has a to act his role during most
of the movie. I would say this is an equivalent performance as in 50
First Dates, or even better. He is very funny (as usual), but also
compassionate and lovable. Nick Swardson is the clown of the movie,
which allows Sandler to act more and leave some of the funny stuff to
others. Swardson made me and my whole family laugh out loud during many
parts of the movie. In fact, it had been a long time since I heard my
two teenagers laugh so much and so loudly during a movie.

The two kids are really good supporting actors. They bring a lot to the
movie. They make the situation more complicated a few times in
unexpected ways. Bailee Madison is very impressive. We will see her
again and often.

The normal cast of Happy Madisson movies are all there for their usual
2 minutes and all bring their own laugh. One of them made me swallow
water in my lungs! He is good! I will let you guess which one.

All and all, we left very satisfied and happy we had this family night,
even the teenagers. No frustration like we had in True Grit and no
disappointment like we had in Sanctum. This was better than expected
and worth its money. Just sit down and "Go with it!".
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw at this an advanced screening in Huntington Beach. 

It was pretty damn good. I do have to admit that I am an Adam Sandler
fan. Being 21, I grew up seeing his films in theaters and for the most
part liked them all. I think with Big Daddy, Dennis Dugan and Adam
Sandler's Happy Madison crew really started a formula of movie. Central
conflicted and imperfect character Adam (who has a good heart of
course), falls in love with the girl of his dreams, who is younger and
way better looking than him, all formulated around a specific central
premise (i.e. with this film it's Adam's lies piling on top of lies)
supported by extremely strong, quirky side character performances. This
might be the epitome of this established formula, really passing 50
First Dates in my opinion. The typical Sandler ridiculous humor and
smart-ass remarks are extremely well balanced with perfectly timed and
executed emotional moments. The set-up for the story is pretty basic
and at first almost appears predictable. It is to some extent, but the
crazy directions the movie takes based on Sandler's lies is well done
and only stretches a few times. But what do you expect from the Happy
Madison crew? 

The 2 kids in the film did a good job and had some funny lines. I am
not a Jennifer Aniston fan at all but really actually liked her in
this. I sort of understand her popularity and charm after this movie.
She seemed more genuine and I felt an emotional attachment to her that
I have always lacked with her. Plus, she is showcased in a particular
waterfall scene and looks absolutely fantastic in a bikini. Brooklyn
Decker is unbelievably gorgeous, as we all know from the SI Swimsuit
Edition, but I was very surprised at how natural of an actress she was.
She seemed very comfortable and didn't overact much. She is extremely
cute and lovable. Nicole Kidman and Dave Mathews were great as an uber
cool couple. Nicole was a bit over the top as she has been of late
(like since Moulin Rouge), but thats what her character called for so I
understand. Dave was surprisingly good as an almost drugged up yuppie,
cool boyfriend of Nicole's. Nick Swardson was absolutely hilarious and
by far steals every scene he is in. He really comes into the movie
about 1/3 of the way in and from there on out its his movie. Nick
Swardson deserves fame for this.

I can't say for sure how the critics will receive it. I can handle
suspension of disbelief as long as it leads to a funny payoff. For the
most part these moments are delivered. It's a great date movie and a
great movie for Sandler fans. He has an unbelievable recent track
record for success, but this will top all of them at the box office.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I watched this movie on Valentines Day. The way we decided
on this movie was that we watched trailers for all the movies in our
theater and this one stood out by far as the best.

Once we started watching this movie I realized that this actually was
gonna be a good pick for Valentines Day. It was a very well done
Romantic-Comedy. I was just suspecting a full out comedy but was happy
that the movie was the way it was even though I normally dislike most
R-C's.

The cast worked excellent together. Sandler was funny as usual and
meshed very well with Jennifer Aniston. Nick Swardson is always a funny
guy and lives up to that in this movie. Brooklyn Decker played her part
to a tee, and the children added just the right touch to every scene
they were in.

This movie was a winner in my book. I am usually much more critical but
there was just something about it. I will be at least renting when this
comes out on DVD/Blu-Ray. Who knows...maybe i'll spend the $20 and buy
this one. Go see it! You won't regret.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for a good laugh, I highly recommend this movie.
You'll definitely enjoy it with your friends or your family. If I want
to watch a comedy, I'm not critical about anything, if the movie can
make me laugh then I'm good. I know what I was expecting when I went to
see this movie but I wasn't expecting that it was going to make me
laugh that hard!

This movie has heart, it deals with friendship and family. It's like 50
First Dates and then some, and then some more. It's not your typical
boy-meets-girl romantic-comedy either, it doesn't focus on the lead
characters alone. Here, you'll see the supporting characters, and their
relationships grow with the lead characters.

The dialogues were great. Jennifer and Adam really have chemistry in
this movie. I was glad to see Nicole in a comedy! The kids are
hilarious! Basically, everyone did a great job!
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler is getting pretty solid at producing and acting in
quasi-poignant tales that get him somewhat further away - and,
ultimately, closer to (doesn't make sense, I know) - from his
proto-Sandler-style of filmmaking that has his vaguely proto-typical
cast of characters - hapless, hopeless geeks, improbable ladies' man, a
"nice guy" that all the ladies want, but still seem to settle on the
douches. Sandler brings his "crew" together - former/current SNLers,
Allen Covert (who is pretty much in every Sandler movie that I can
think of), and some heavy-hitters occasionally. "The Wedding Singer,"
"Grown-Ups," and, now, "Just Go With It" all pander to this amiable
style of film-making that is at times borderline gross-out - but just
pulls away before you realize this probably isn't an Apatow-slacker
movie, nor is attempting to be.

Sandler is a plastic surgeon who long ago accidentally discovered he
could play the "my wife is a terrible person who abuses me" card to
score with hot chicks at the bar. Fact is he's not actually married -
he and/or his wife left him at the altar many years before when he
discovered she really didn't like him - but he's become so comfortable
with lying to score with the chicks he just doesn't care - or seem to.
Jennifer Aniston is his office assistant, a sweet, single gal with 2
kids. She doesn't much care for how he deals with the ladies, but she
still likes him because she sees what a sweet guy he really is under
the surface of his rather devious womanizing that all starts with a
lie.

Sandler meets the bounteous and beautiful - and, very young - Brooklyn
Decker at a party. They sleep together on the beach and in the morning
Decker discovers he's "married." Sandler immediately throws a lie out
there - he IS in fact, married (wait, no he's not, but it's all a lie
anyway) but he's in the process of getting a divorce because his
relationship with his wife - again, playing the same card - is very
bad. Decker somehow believes him and off we go with the rest of the
movie where Aniston agrees to be his fake wife and ultimately go off on
a vacation with Decker, Sandler, Aniston's kids, and Nick Swanson as
the court jester/boob (basically a version of Rob Schneider from
Sandler's other "Happy Madison" movies) who pretends to be Aniston's
boyfriend.

There are a lot of funny setups and jokes - enough to enjoy the movie,
for sure, even if they do clearly seem to be Sandler-ish in their
obviousness. Hey, he's a plastic surgeon, let's see where we might milk
that. Decker is half his and Aniston's age - let's see where we might
milk that. Swanson is an often over-the-top boob - let's see where we
can grab some silly jokes there. Aniston's kids - the daughter,
especially - are good for quite a few laughs as well.

I half expected Decker to be pretty bad, but she does just fine. She is
playing against top comedic talent here - though honestly Sandler
nearly seems on auto-pilot in most of his movies - and nowhere is
Jessica Simpson-like delivery in evidence. It hardly needs to be said
she is being used for her looks more than her supposed talent, but her
ability to transcend the "Hey, I'm just here to be a C-cup blond bimbo
in a bikini" obviousness of her role is commendable. Sandler is
notorious - or very successful, depending on your perspective - in
bringing in at least one or two pieces of eye candy to most of his
films, but in a manner that is less blatant or purely perverse. Yes,
Sandler likes hiring hot chicks, but he also likes the good/nice guy to
have a shot with her, which makes most of us nerds feel at least a
little bit more hopeful. Decker and Aniston both of course fill this
role, quite well.

While clearly not an intentional Oscar-winner, Sandler proves he is
again capable of making a funny, somewhat poignant, generally enjoyable
PG-13-bordering-on-R-rated film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a horrible movie that actually made me laugh a bunch of times
but that still doesn't save it from my rating. The laughs have
absolutely nothing to do with the plot and are mostly sight gags. The
entire premise is absurd, instead of telling the truth to the new girl
he met about wearing a wedding ring he concocts a lie so complicated
and stupid it could never work under any circumstances. One point being
the idea that he is automatically going to stay with this girl even
though they only had one night together but still creates situations
that would not work in any future with her. His fake wife is really his
assistant, his cousin has to do a fake German accent and his fake
daughter has to continue to do a English Cockney accent forever?

The blonde girlfriend must be the dumbest woman on the planet to
believe the nonsense she is being told.

The end is predictable.

The only good thing was Nick Swardson who is very funny.
<|_=00=_|>
So a film about a plastic surgeon who makes fun of his patients, lies
to girls to get them in bed and multiple "boobie" jokes- that's right
it's an Adam Sandler movie. He plays the same girl chasing immature
character in every movie, except with a different job and name. He even
makes the same silly voices, e.g. when he says, "My Precious".

Are we supposed to find the premise of lying to girls to get into their
pants funny? A kid putting on an English accent funny? Is a female
assistant who has been hurt by at least one man - and willing herself
to help this guy scam his way into a relationship with another female
realistic or sympathetic? What is funny about this film exactly? The
jokes about "boobies"? Him having a huge nose in the beginning? Are we
supposed to buy that the female assistant falls in love with this scam
artist because he has appealing characteristics such as scamming women
to get in their pants? 

Are we supposed to think it's romantic that he isn't made accountable
for years of treating women like trash to use and throw away and then
he finds "true love"? Sorry I'm not buying it Hollywood. I'm not
submitting to being dumbed down and taught to accept mistreatment and
manipulation by men.
