
I went into this movie with no expectations. The title made it seem
like it would be a typical action movie; all guns and brawn and little
in the way of storyline but boy was I wrong. This movie, based on a
true story, was powerful and touched me so much that it has prompted me
to write my first film review on IMDb in over six years! This is a
movie with a solid pedigree of cast behind it, it is based on the life
of Sam Childers (Gerard Butler), who without giving much away, has a
criminal past, finds God and embarks on undertaking missionary work in
civil war-torn Sudan, leaving his loyal, loving wife Lynn Childers
(Michelle Monaghan) and his young daughter Paige (Madeline Carrol) back
home in Penslyvania. This movie follows Sam's juggling how his
Christian faith inspires him at home and also in Sudan.

Gerard Butler has always been something of an enigma to me. In my
opinion he can be hit and miss as an actor, but in this movie he gives
a powerhouse performance as the emotionally conflicted and stunted Sam
Cilders, someone who follows his faith and shows simple, sometimes
primal humanity in inhumane foreign environments. I think this is
Gerard Butlers best performance to date, he expertly immerses himself
into Sam , he is so believable in this role, both emotionally, mentally
and physically. The audience may find it hard to remember it is just a
movie at some stages. Michael Shannon is amazing a Sam's childhood
friend Donnie, a troubled soul who is another person loyal to Sam but
ultimately flawed.

This is not a movie I feel will get the awards it richly deserves.
Similar in tone to Hotel Rwanda, it is an inspiring story but with a
sobering message. It reminded me a lot of Hotel Rwanda because it
showed how one man alone with enough faith in simple humanity can make
a difference. Sam Childers is not a saint; far from it, he is flawed
and he has a violent and criminal side and this is evident in the
movie. However he is also shown as having humanity and the fact that he
decides to make a stand and do something away from the comfort of his
armchair in America is testament to his character. Would the audience
have the courage to do what Sam did? That is a question facing the
audience as they leave the movie, along with the graphic images which
will haunt the audience for a long time after seeing the movie.

There are so many powerful moments in this movie that it is hard to pin
point any without spoiling the plot. This is not a movie that you
should take a date along to; or anyone who is squeamish or unsettled by
blood and guts. This is a movie that takes the audience in the palm of
their hands and opens their eyes to the blunt reality and the truth of
genocide. It is similar in that way to Hotel Rwanda but I found this
movie even more graphic and unsettling in many ways. This is a movie
you should watch at all costs although you may not want to see it
again. It is hard hitting, powerful, emotional but most of all thought
provoking.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie and was simply left speechless. It was amazing!! The
story of Sam Childers is amazing. It really makes you think and wonder
how can one person have so much willpower and stamina to keep doing
what he has been doing all these years for these children. I was
shocked by what the LRA has been doing to these children but
unfortunately this is the truth and history keeps repeating itself
especially in African countries. I have lived in Africa for many years
and seeing somebody doing something about these atrocities does mean a
lot (even though he is a "white savior"). If this is what it takes, so
be it. Let's not denigrate it as I have seen so many do in their
reviews. It is a very moving story and although it is extremely violent
at times (let us not forget this is a true story and these things
happened), it can be very touching and emotional. Gerard Butler's
performance is Oscar worthy and Michelle Monaghan and Michael Shannon
were also great even though their roles were short but then again the
story is about Sam Childers. However, what I would really like to know
is why some of the critics trashed this movie?? !! Most of the people
who saw it found it excellent as I did. And why was it not widely
distributed??? I think people should see this movie and be more awake
and aware!! Was it too controversial for some?? It leaves me wondering
!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The interesting observation after viewing this film at the historic
Mayan Theater in downtown Denver was that every female was crying by
the end and the men were poker-faced. Also of interest is that the
negative reviews, which are often unnecessarily unkind to Gerard
Butler, and unhelpful to the reader, often seem to have been posted by
males. Sure, women around the world are crazy about Gerard Butler, but
come on, this was an astounding performance about the life of an
awe-inspiring man. If you didn't like the film, walked out, or wanted
to punch Mr. Butler in the face, then donate the cost of your ticket to
Angels of East Africa. My final comment is that Mr. Butler produced
this film because it wouldn't have been made otherwise. This is a story
that had to be told and he didn't accept his normal fee for his
performance; in fact, although I obviously can't confirm it, I heard
that he accepted a fraction of a fraction of his normal fee.
<|_=00=_|>
This film deserves a MUCH higher score. It's one of the best movies
I've seen in years.

Very well developed characters and storyline and amazing acting/plot.

I was a little upset in the beginning and thought the movie will turn
out to be cheesy, but it really takes hold on you after a few initial
disappointments and doesn't let go until the end.

Buttler fits the unstable "born again, dead again" character extremely
well and delivers an extremely believable performance.

What really makes this movie stand out is its non-stop change of pace.
It goes from slow and peaceful to hardcore Rambo action, but does so in
a very creative way.

Definitely a must see and definitely a masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a screening last night at the DGA, and wasn't prepared for what I
was about to witness. I was in tears several times during the film. It
was something that will stick with me forever. I think the fact that
this was a true story made it even more powerful. 

The whole cast was really wonderful, but Michelle Monaghan stands out
in my mind. That girl is a true talent, and hearing her speak after the
movie made me realize how invested she is, not only in the film part of
the project, but in the charity with Sam Childers as well. Such
impressive work, both in front of and behind the camera.

The movie made me want to help. It made me angry that our military,
government, and governments across the planet have neglected these
people. 

I am still reeling from seeing this. Brilliant, moving, and absolutely
gut wrenching. 

Did someone say Oscar?
<|_=00=_|>
I m not a usual review writer of any kind but i especially register for
IMDb to write about this movie. After watching the movie and checking
the IMDb rate i must say it is highly underestimated and i was forced
to make a statement.

i would recommend this movie. it leaves you thinking not only about the
characters itself but also about the issue of the movie. I myself spend
hours of researching about the problems which are shown in the movie.

i find the characters very appealing although at some point i thought
it could be portrayed better than it was actually done.

Overall it is a really good movie and worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
"Machine Gun Preacher" is an inspirational melodrama directed by Marc
Forster and starring Gerard Butler, Michelle Monaghan and Michael
Shannon. This film is based on the true story of Sam Childers a former
gang biker who finds god, becomes a pastor and has dedicated his life
and all his resources ever since to rescuing and protecting orphans in
Sudan, Africa. Childers founded Angles of East Africa an orphanage
located in South Sudan.

Marc Forster has under his belt an impressive resume with films like
Quantum of Solace, The Kite Runner, Finding Neverland and Monster's
Ball. 

Reviewing this film has been very complicated because of its subject
matter. The movie has a strong religious subject, addresses the civil
conflict and severity of the crisis in Sudan, ideals, hypocrisy and
religious fanaticism. This film will divide Christian audiences because
of the redemptive arc of the tale.

This is one of those movies that will provoke both sympathy and
aversion. Sam Childers (Butler) is not an ordinary preacher; he carries
a machine gun and kills LRA rebels in self-defense looking at it as
helping God's children. Sam had a troubled life, was a gang member,
drug dealer, junkie, married a stripper, but his life dramatically
changes around when he finds god or god finds him, as he states in the
movie. He claims to be a soldier fighting for freedom and becomes a
member of the SPLA (Sudan People's Liberation Army). 

Mark Foster does a good job bringing such a complex and controversial
story to the big screen utilizing his well-known visual skills. This
movie has a lot of graphic and violent scenes, showing the horror
caused by a civil war, torture, savage murders, and how entire villages
are destroyed. 

MPAA rating: R Runtime: 2:03 mins Production Co: Relativity Media,
Virgin Produced, Apparatus Productions
<|_=00=_|>
In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the addicted gang biker Sam Childers
(Gerard Butler) is released from prison and learns that his wife Lynn
Childers (Michelle Monaghan) is no longer a striper and has converted
to Christianity. One night, Sam and his best friend Donnie (Michael
Shannon) give a ride to a hitchhiker that threatens Donnie with a
pocketknife; however Sam reacts and stabs the stranger and dumps him on
the road.

Sam is affected by the incident and is convinced by Lynn and his mother
Daisy (Kathy Baker) to join their church and he is baptized. Sam finds
a straight job in construction. He is well succeeded and when he meets
a preacher from Africa, he decides to visit the continent. Sam travels
to Northern Uganda and South Sudan many times and builds an orphanage
for the victims of the cruel Lord's Resistance Army (LRA). Further, he
fights whenever necessary and becomes a legend known as The Machine Gun
Preacher.

"Machine Gun Preacher" is a film tailored to Gerard Buttler about the
fantastic but unfortunately not well known biography of Sam Childers,
an addicted troublemaker drug-dealer biker that changes totally his
life and becomes the only hope for thousand of orphans in Africa. 

The story and the screenplay are engaging with a perfect combination of
drama and action. The only thing that irritates me is douchbags that
write that this film like is a Christian propaganda. This is a true
story and can be found everywhere in Internet and has nothing to do
with propaganda, but reality and redemption. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Redenção" ("Redemption")
<|_=00=_|>
This story touch my hart and soul! Even after couple of days after
watching movie i still feel movement that this story caused in me;it is
strong and powerful and it will change your life view forever! It made
me appreciate more my life and my environment,not to mention enormous
wish and need to help anyone who is in this kind of horror!

You will have to prepare yourself for a very horrifying story! You will
not forget this movie for a long time! Hopefully this movie will go
bigger and beyond - and it will help and assist in fight against this
terror!!!

This movie deserves an Oscar!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The film I saw was not the film I was expecting.

I spent half the film in tears, it was emotional, heart breaking and
one of the best films I have seen.

The life changing story of Sam is one of inspiration that I will never
forget.

Totally amazing and one that was told well and had to be told.

The journey his wife and child take with him and without him shows
strength and courage, it can't be easy to deal with your husband/father
constantly gone yet they manage to do it, live through it and remain
strong.

The hope Sam gives to those children is something that can never be
forgotten.
