
I really enjoyed watching this Fantastic successful family movie,it was
great fun and never got bored with it.The acting was brilliant and the
kids were so cute and so funny that I wished I had kids like them,this
is not exaggeration at all.

Judy Moody is a cuddly kid in 3rd grade and this exceptional year she
plans her extraordinary summer vacation with her best cute friends
Rocky and Amy.So Judy packed all her things with her including
candy,toys and kids stuff and invited her friends to accompany her in
this outstanding Summer Vacation.Unfortunately for Judy Her first
friend Rocky is going to circus camp to learn to tame lions,determined
Judy didn't despair she talks to Amy who is also busy this summer but
in something else traveling to Borneo with her mom to save a lost
tribe. Alas for the lovely Judy she could not help but stay home with
her troublesome little brother Stink and second best friend Frank
Pearl.

Poor little beautiful girl Judy while she was dreaming of having a
whale of time swimming in the sea,having fun ,eating ice cream &
playing with her best friends,things turned out quite the opposite for
her.

But this is not the end of the world for the gorgeous Judy,she suddenly
hears that her parents will spend the Summer Vacation in California and
Judy can go with them & stay with her Aunt Opal, whom she has never
even met! 

Nevertheless beautiful, smart,strong and cute Judy went To California
but what she doesn't know is that she has to face there one of the most
pleasant and unexpected surprises she has never ever seen which will
positively change her mood in a funny mysterious way you'll detect its
splendor in this masterpiece Guaranteed entertaining family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Judy says it also.

Thus, this movie is just amazing entertainment ! In the soup that's
American TV (see « errand of angels » for more details), the advantage
is that highly original movies just stand out easily !

So, when i was zapping channels in my hotel room, I spotted it
immediately and my first impression lasted until the final credits. As
« Max Keeble's Big Move », the movie is great as it really grasps
what's to be a child ! Here, it's about the summer vacation and it's
true that for all the kids who stays at home, this time can be dull and
that finally school is better ! It's also accurate as it tells that the
world seen trough child's' kids is just a endless source of thrills,
surprise and fun ! You rejoice absurd club with your friends,
everything can happen in your bedroom, your garden turns into a jungle
and the city is a faraway country ! The movie also benefits from an
amazing young cast, totally into their characters and the story ! I
don't know if « Judy Moody » is an adaptation but the movie gives me
interest to read her adventures so and i'm waiting for another screen
adventure in Paris as they told us !
<|_=00=_|>
In spite of a mediocre reception, Judy Moody and the Not Bummer Summer
is a thoroughly delightful children's movie that brilliantly captures
the spirit of the best-selling Judy Moody books. What must be taken
into consideration is that this is not a "Mass Audience" movie, but a
movie for fans of the book series and for anyone who is tired of seeing
the same cookie-cutter family film with the same cookie-cutter jokes as
the last twenty summer family films.

Jordana Beatty shines as the spunky, red-haired Judy who is determined
to not have a bummer summer, aided by quirky little brother Stink and
eccentric Aunt Opal. It is an admittedly simple plot, but an enjoyable
one, complimented by great acting (a breath of fresh air for anyone who
is a bit tired of the Disney Channel style of child acting) and
wonderfully whimsical visuals.

In short, Judy Moody is a children's movie, not a surprise when one
considers that it is based on a children's book series. In an age when
so many "children's" movies contain off-color jokes and inappropriate
content that might amuse the adults but mean very little to children,
it's nice to find a children's film that can truly be called a
children's film. It's a thrilladelic movie for a "non-mass" audience!
<|_=00=_|>
The main reason I was interested in this movie is because of Heather
Graham; I know this is a children's movie but you know children don't
go to the theaters by themselves and don't buy tickets by themselves so
I assumed filmmakers would keep in mind that adults are going to be in
the theater as well; unless I suppose it's aimed at the DVD market.

The manic energy that comes from kids is there but really nothing more.
The movie centers around Judy Moody who decides to quantify the quality
of her summer break with points for doing daring things only to find
that her friends are racking up more points by virtue of exotic locales
and exotic camps. Aunt Opal (Graham) is there for the summer to look
after the kids and she's a guerrilla artist (and let's leave it at
that).

The setup does promise an interesting look at various things like
friendship - the cool friends who aren't there against the not so cool
friend who is there; the relationship between the free-spirited Aunt
Opal and Judy; or Judy's relationship with her brother who she seems to
detest or the fact that their parents can't afford to get her to
expensive camps and trips. But, unfortunately, it really doesn't do any
of that - it just consists of kids of running around clumsily enacting
one part after another of the story. This is where the adults would be
annoyed - the story, characters going absolutely nowhere for an hour in
the middle of the movie.

If you're going to see this with your kids, there is some redemption at
the ending and have to brave through the middle parts. As for Heather
Graham, I wish she was more in the movie; she barely even registers
among all the chaos.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a free pass which ONLY could be used for this movie; otherwise,
its gag-inducing trailer might have kept me away. (Hollywood's goal for
ALL its comedy previews these days seems hell-bent on making viewers
barf, perhaps with the hope that they will blame it on a virus or food
poisoning, rush home without seeing the movie they paid for--or getting
a refund, and then come back and PAY AGAIN for the movie they wanted to
see in the first place. Well, if most Americans are THAT stupid, then
maybe Owen Wilson SHOULD be president!) Though Jordana Beatty as JUDY
MOODY is not really the cutest or most entertaining girl on the block
(the Fanning sisters qualify as today's Shirley Temples), BUMMER SUMMER
could perhaps pass as DIARY OF A WIMPY KID for the short female set.
When all the gross sight gags crammed into the preview are spread out
through 91 minutes, its sort of like a farmer fertilizing his field:
not so bad (if you don't get caught downwind). And with Heather Graham
as Judy's Aunt Opal, this kid pic kind of gets my sympathy vote. Oh,
what Roller Girl's stooped down to!
<|_=00=_|>
I was a somewhat fan of the Judy Moody books, and the spin-off series
of books about her brother. So when I heard about this movie, I was
happy to see someone adapt the words in the books to a visual medium. I
didn't see it in theaters but I saw it on Disney Channel with my little
sister and my reaction was along the lines of "WHAT THE HELL WAS
THAT?!" and "Well it could've been worse." The story is somewhat
original: a girl takes up a challenge in which she must do as many
strange, creative, and fun activities to score points. But meanwhile,
she must handle the quirks that come from her little brother and her
Aunt, who helps her in her challenge. Hijinx ensue. That is a good
story for kids. The editing is all over the place. A lot of the shots
are quickly done, that whenever a slower scene comes on, I feel like
I'm watching another film! The acting is OK for a film like this, but
they should have given the actress who plays Judy more direction. So,
when all is said and done, the film is just OK. The acting: it's OK!
The editing and directing: it's OK. The story: once again, it's OK.
Unless you want to watch a film for you and your kids to watch and get
sucked into, I say watch it. Especially when your summer is NOT a
bummer!
<|_=00=_|>
Judy Moody and the NOT Bummer Summer (2011): Dir: John Schultz / Cast:
Jordana Beatty, Heather Graham, Parris Mosteller, Jaleel White, Janet
Varney: About as amateur as a family kiddie film can get. It regards
appreciating the little things in life, that hopefully doesn't involve
attending this film. Jordana Beatty plays Judy Moody whose summer was
scheduled to be full of dares until her friends all travel elsewhere
for the summer leaving her with her Bigfoot obsessed younger brother,
Stink. Once her parents answer a call to go aid another family member,
the kids are left with their Aunt Opal. Directed by John Schultz whose
films seem to be made out of a weekly allowance. He previously made
such junk as Drive Me Crazy and the idiotic Aliens in the Attic.
Schultz may have the best intentions but the special effects here are
about third grade level. Beatty holds her own as Moody whose enthusiasm
for adventure is only temporarily sidetracked by disappointments. She
upholds the theme of the film. Heather Graham as Aunt Opal is fetching
and sunny but her dealings with the children are questionable
especially when one handles what is claimed to be sh*t (and apparently
was) at the table. Parris Mosteller plays Stink who is involved with a
lot of morons out seeking Bigfoot. And who names their kid Stink
anyway? Janet Varney plays his mother, so perhaps some of the blame can
be direct towards her. Jaleel White plays teacher Mr. Todd whom the
kids hunt for all summer. Had he been smart he would have skipped the
film set and avoided another bummer film choice. Score: 3 ½ / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Just because a film is made for children does not mean it needs to be
childish; just because a film stars Heather Graham does not mean it has
to be awful; just because a film attempts to salute the nostalgic
summers of our past youth does not mean a person should want to put a
gun in their mouth.

But all of the above-mentioned things crossed my mind many times while
viewing "Judy Moody and the Not-Bummer Summer," a picture that by its
very title betrays an experience so abysmal, so stupefying, so devoid
of any comedic relationship that it makes other movies of this genre,
including "Shark Boy and Lava Girl," "Shorts," "Nanny McPhee" or
ANYTHING on the current Disney Channel line-up (with the possible
exception of "iCarly") seem like "Citizen Kane" by comparison.

Director John Schultz ("Aliens In the Attic," "The Honeymooners"),
should be aware that there are at least a half dozen states for which
such an assault on a person's sensibilities commands a capital charge,
yet after his big screen retelling of the classic Jackie Gleason/Art
Carney sitcom, he is still allowed to walk about on our streets and
produce even more noxious waste.

Now before anyone out there accuses me of beating a dead horse by
complaining so much about a kid's picture, bear in mind I am also a
parent. Also realize that I take my own children to these kinds of
films and "Judy Moody" was no exception. Three of my kids and two of
their friends attended a Saturday night showing and only TWO other
people were in the theatre - and that was a young couple - with NO
moppets.

The youngsters barely registered a chuckle on the Laugh-O-Meter while I
did my best to come up with even the slightest smirk. The reason is
painfully obvious - there is not one funny line or situation in the
entire effort. Even dropping myself down to the level of what would
normally make tykes giggle and trying as hard as I could to find
something - ANYTHING - to laugh at was like discovering something
politically valuable about Sarah Palin or Barak Obama.

Here, Jordana Beatty plays Judy Moody (the last name is more than
appropriate as her character spends most of the picture in a sullen,
sad-sack demeanor) trying to convince her friends, Rocky (Garrett
Ryan), Amy (Taylar Hender) and Frank (Preston Bailey) to forgo their
own summer plans to compete in a lame series of "thrill point"
challenges to determine who will have the "coolest summer ever." 

The first two kids are obviously more intelligent than the hapless,
Harry Potter-looking Frank, as they already have plans (although
Rocky's attendance at a "circus camp" is as doofy as Judy's nonsensical
intentions). Broken-hearted over this development, the red-haired
protagonist is hit with equally bad news when it is announced her Aunt
Opal (Graham, who lit up the silver screen with her performances in
"Bobby" and "Austin Powers, the Spy Who Shagged Me") will babysit while
her parents jet off to California (hey, with a kid this depressing, I'd
take a flight to the West Coast, too).

Promising to spend the rest of the summer in her room (where the
writers and director should have been sent to, as well), she also has
to deal with a creepy little brother, Stink (Paris Mosteller), who
dreams of capturing Bigfoot and needs an international translator to be
understood.

And while her two absent buddies are involved in fun activities and
collecting "thrill points," Judy and Frank fail at everything in an
effort to have fun, including falling off a tightrope, barfing on a
roller-coaster, having a bird poop on their picnic lunch and being
thrown out of a horror movie. Aunt Opal is little help, either, being
the dumbest blonde in existence and sleeping most of the time (just
like the audience).

Picture finally concludes - thankfully - but not without a sequence
featuring that one construction worker guy from "City Slickers" chasing
Bigfoot through town in an ice cream truck. To further compound the
pain, Jaleel "Urkel" White appears as a teacher/ice cream vendor who
"entertains" his class by playing the banjo (where's the toothless
cretin in "Deliverance" when we need him?).

Add to this completely unnecessary snippets of badly-drawn and poorly-
conceived animation (that make the artwork in "Hoodwinked" look like
Pixar effects) and words written across the screen (for SOME reason) at
random intervals, and you have one profoundly ridiculous enterprise and
one terrible time at the cinemaplex.

Parents, if you love your children, then, in the name of all that is
holy, please do not take them to see this film. I only hope my
offspring have the kindness to forgive me - one day
<|_=00=_|>
One of my favorite quotes of all time was one that not only bashed this
"movie", but also adequately summed it up. 

"Though it may entertain some very young viewers, Judy Moody is likely
to be a garish sensory onslaught for anyone with a normal attention
span." -Rotten Tomatoes, June 2011

Quite honestly, this one is the most accurate (and witty) yet. I was
forced to go with my little cousins to see this, and I'm not surprised
at all that they didn't enjoy it either. Probably even for them,
constant puking, drooling, cotton candy spewing, hands glued to strange
places, and "poop picnics" were disturbing and not really clever enough
to stand out. This is the first movie that I have cared so little that
I sat in the very back row, by myself, and texted people. Go ahead,
call me names, but quite honestly I don't think anyone else in the near
empty theater noticed or cared. Anyway, from what I heard and saw
between texts, its nothing more than an overly garish overload of just
about everything except anything worth mentioning. I may be a teen, but
I can tell when a film needs a deeper storyline and maybe a little
something to thrill EVERYONE, not just 5 year old kids. Sorry.
