
Soul Surfer is in the top 10 of my favorite faith-based movies. It
really is a tremendous uplifting film that leaves you in tears from the
very beginning to the very end. And it's all attributed to God. Kudos
to Dennis Quaid and Helen Hunt for being in the film and giving
terrific performances! I give Soul Surfer a 10 out of 10

My top 10 faith-based movies of all time are: 1) Ben-Hur; 2) The Genius
Club; 3) Soul Surfer; 4) Facing the Giants; 5) Chariots of Fire; 6) End
of the Spear; 7) The Climb; 8) Gospel of John; 9) Time Changer; 10)
Book of Matthew

You're missing out if you haven't seen these films!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not often compelled to write movie reviews online, but after seeing
some of the bad reviews this film got, I decided I would. This film is
well worth your time and money. Granted, some of the scenes may feel
cheap and I think my brother could create a better CGI shark. That's
not the point. AnnaSophia Robb does a spectacular job of playing
Bethany Hamilton, a 13 year-old girl determined to continue doing what
she loves after losing an arm to a shark. Helen Hunt and Dennis Quaid
do an excellent job of portraying her supporting parents. The raw
display of emotion from herself and the rest of the cast is
mesmerizing. The character chemistry and development could not work
better here. The film includes great cinematography and well-done surf
scenes which add to the overall effect. If this movie does not inspire
you, I don't know what will. The target audience is teenage girls, but
the whole family can enjoy Soul Surfer. You will leave the theater
feeling uplifted after viewing this great film. SEE THIS MOVIE! You
will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the true story of Bethany Hamilton, a 13 year old competitive
surfer with big dreams and a courageous spirit. Coming from a family of
surfers, riding the waves is all Bethany can dream about. But her
dreams turn into a nightmare after a sudden shark attack takes her left
arm and her hopes of ever surfing again.

Soul Surfer is an inspirational film for the entire family about
overcoming obstacles and turning tragedy into triumph.

Filmed entirely in Hawaii, it offers some gorgeous cinematography and
wonderful surf-action shots and features an all-star cast including
Helen Hunt, Denis Quaid, Craig T Nelson and AnnaSophia Robb as Bethany,
the teen titan with a heart of gold.

Soul Surfer is a well produced film, that leans heavily on it's
soul-lifting story, stellar acting and a rocking soundtrack on a
moderate budget. It's encouraging to see such big Hollywood names doing
such inspirational family fare without the inflated-sized salary
demands.

Helen Hunt and Dennis Quaid actually seem to be enjoying themselves
alongside the rising talents of the young cast members, most notably
AnnaSophia Robb, best remembered for her role in Bridge to Terabithia,
Jumper and Because of Winn Dixie. AnnaSophia delivers a powerful and
gripping performance that is sure to win your heart and leave you
breathless as she struggles to overcome all odds. Carrie Underwood
seems a bit misplaced as the youth pastor who comforts and encourages
Bethany, but while her screen time is short, she proves that singing
may not be her only talent.

For a film based on a true story, I got caught up in the action and
well paced story-telling. I found myself entranced by and caring for
each of the characters. When the shark attack scene unfolded, I found
myself holding my breath and completely taken in by the film. A rare
victory few films can achieve.

I admired the way the film presented Bethany's family and their
Christian faith, being faithful to church and being such positive role
models. But I was disappointed in the failed opportunity to present
more biblical truth to a secular audience. Like many recent films being
marketed to a Christian audience, the presented faith in Soul Surfer
was played a bit too safe and generic to arouse any converts since it
lacked in any gospel message, but if viewed with a Christan who knows
how to use the film as a topic starter, it can be a great tool or ice
breaker.

Another refreshing bonus was the lack of any profanity or sexuality,
making it completely suitable and safe for viewing in a church or youth
group setting.

I highly recommend this entertaining and uplifting film for the entire
family.
<|_=00=_|>
This film touched my heart in a way few ever have it was well done in
every aspect. The acting was excellent, everyone in this very strong
cast turned in excellent performances's but Annasophia Robb was a stand
out, absolutely genuine in her performance, your heart breaks for her
and soars with her. The cinematography was beautiful and the under
water shots were very creative. The special effects are convincing. But
the true star of this film is the story itself. It tells the remarkable
story of Bethany Hamilton which can not help but challenge and inspire
the viewer. I can not recommend it highly enough. Don't miss this one!
It is family safe we went with 7 people ages 12 to 70 and everyone
loved it. It inspired us all!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to support a family-valued film. But, I was touched and moved by
the honesty and the reality of the events as they occurred. 

Some of the special effects with the surf were awesome, wish there had
been more.

Anna Sophia Robb stole every scene she was in. Her performance was
understated and real. 

Soul Surfer is a tear jerker, with an upbeat message, and ultimately
makes you feel triumphant. For the Christians, there is a hymn in an
outdoor church and a few references to scripture and God. 

Some short documentary clips before the end credits were a highlight.
Like Bethany surfing, appearances on Late Night talk, and reporters
interviews. Makes me think that a biographical documentary about the
real heroine, Bethany Hamilton, would be terrific.
<|_=00=_|>
This is such an amazing story that it's really hard to believe it
actually happened! It's nearly unfathomable to think of any 13-year-old
girl getting attacked by one of the largest and fiercest wild animals
on the planet, having a limb ripped off, losing over 60% of her blood
and being moments from death . . . and then having the fearless faith
and determination to get back on the board less than a month later . .
. going on to compete with power, grace, and dignity to accomplish more
than anyone ever dreamed she would. She learned some of the most
valuable lessons in life through this tragedy, and now her courage, her
confidence, her smile, and her kindness has inspired countless people
around the world who have disabilities, who have gone through equally
traumatic tragedies, who have given up, and who have lost their faith.
The truth is, Bethany Hamilton inspires us all to fight through the
temptation to let our unfortunate circumstances bring us down to a
place where we stop pursuing our dreams. Through her heart and her life
story we see that God is good. Everyone, young and old and in between,
in all walks of life, should see this movie and be moved to believe
that they can do all things . . . and make their dreams come true.
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched a lot of surfing movies over the years but nothing as
captivating as Soul Surfer. The acting is terrific but the locales make
you want to move to Hawaii. In most sports based movies you expect the
star of the film to win. It is sort of a given. However, this movie
expertly sets the viewer up for another kind of win. Not just a trophy
or a magazine cover but a win that takes the viewer done the road in
his or her personal struggles. There is a lot of talk about faith based
film but this film isn't really about faith it is about how to get up
when you are down and make a difference. I have always been a big fan
of Dennis Quaid and Helen Hunt especially her performance in Castaway
with Tom Hanks but she plays the mom in this film with perfection and
although I never though of Dennis as a surfer like Patrick Swayze he
does his part as the girls father and couch perfectly. I went to the
film expecting something good but I came away from the film having
experienced something great.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to see Soul Surfer for many reasons, primarily because I
recently learned about Bethany Hamilton and wanted to see her
courageous story. I also heard it advertised on our local radio station
and thought it sounded like a good movie.

The movie clearly portrays the Hamilton family as a close group who
walked through an extremely difficult tragedy with grace and courage.

The scene when Bethany is attacked by the whale is brief but the
aftermath is bloody and somewhat difficult to watch so I would
encourage parents to be mindful of this. I took my almost-10-year old
daughter to see it with me, but I discussed ahead of time what the
movie was about. I didn't know what to expect with the actual shark but
I did remind her that shark attacks are very rare, that this young
woman spent much of her time in the ocean, etc. I think my daughter was
still a little haunted by the images, so please be mindful that younger
kids could be traumatized.

Still, the movie is worth seeing, especially by teens and adults. This
courageous young woman took a personal tragedy and made it something
meaningful and positive. Bless her! The acting is solid, the action is
quick, the script is realistic and keeps moving well. I liked
everything about it and hope the movie does really well. We need more
inspiring, uplifting messages today.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) This is the true story of Bethany Hamilton, a 13-year-old
female surfer who lost her left arm to a 14-foot tiger shark. Instead
of giving up surfing over the loss of her arm, Bethany was determined
to get back on her board several weeks later and prove that she is
truly a soul surfer.

(My Comments) Soul Surfer is an inspirational film for the whole family
and an amazing story about a young girl who overcomes overwhelming
obstacles and turns a traumatic tragedy into an achievement and
triumph. The movie presents Bethany's family and their Christian faith
that caries them through this life altering event. Bethany has become a
positive role model for others that have a disability and have lost
their faith. AnnaSophia Robb delivers a powerful and riveting
performance as Bethany that is sure to win your hearts. Dennis Quaid
and Helen Hunt's performances were very believable and real. You will
actually begin to care for each of these characters, and the reason may
be that you know that the story is based on real life events. You don't
have to worry about the shark attack, because the scene was done
quickly and not drawn out. Stay for the credits to see actual pictures.
You will leave the movie feeling very good and upbeat. (Sony Pictures,
Run Time 1:46, PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Right from the get go I fund it incredibly hard to swallow how perfect
Bethany and her family are portrayed . There was Zero realism in the
film which I found to be a sickly sweet exercise with nothing new to
offer at all . I thought or hoped that they might have been original in
the telling but this was nothing more than a Glossy version of a made
for TV weepy .

On the plus side The cinematography was great and the action shot
enjoyable and well choreographed .

If you love surfing then you'll probably enjoy this for the most part
and for a Christian film or at least one with a strong Christian
message this is definitely one of the better ones . But this is no '127
hours ' which is a shame given the source 

Bethanys true story is an horrific and inspiring one , this was super
sickly sweet, patronising, over acted poorly scripted nonsense from
start to finish . wait for it to come out on DVD ...
