
If there is one French director the non-French general public knows
about, it's Luc Besson. Even if the name means nothing to you, chances
are you've heard of the films he's had a hand in. Among his most famous
films are Léon: The Professional (which introduced American audiences
to Jean Reno and Natalie Portman), Nikita (which has been remade into
an American film and two American TV shows so far) and The Fifth
Element (which nearly 15 years later remains one of the most famous
science-fiction films as well as one of the 10 most expensive French
films).

At the dawn of the new millennium, Besson started his own production
company, EuropaCorp, which in the last ten years or so has funded its
fair share of diverse movies, both in the French and English language.
Nevertheless Europa (as it's known in short) is best known to mass
audiences for its numerous, high-octane, medium-budget action films,
most of which are written or co-written by Besson himself (often with
Karate Kid screenwriter Robert Mark Kamen). Among these are the Taxi,
Transporter and District B13 series of films, Wasabi, Taken, From Paris
With Love, Danny The Dog (also known as Unleashed), Bandidas, Kiss Of
The Dragon, Yamakasi, Crimson Rivers 2, Hit-man,... Through these
films, Besson is also responsible for introducing the world to Parkour,
which seems to have taken over action cinema in the past 5 years (and
even making its way to films such as Step Up 3D).

Colombiana is another product from Besson's action film factory. The
story starts in 1992 in Bogota, where some mob guy, Don Luis, orders a
hit against a former associate of his who he considers has betrayed
him, and naturally his whole family. Only young Cataleya Restrepo
escapes the bloody shootout during an intense Parkour chase (what
else?), and manages to reach her uncle in Chicago, to whom she swears
that she'll become a hit-man and avenge her family. Fast-forward and
enter Zoe Saldana as adult Cataleya as the rest of the film takes
place, strangely enough, in 2007. With her uncle's help, Cataleya has
indeed grown up to be an awesomely skilled contract killer, having
performed 22 jobs in 4 years. However, she signs each of her kills with
a message destined for her real prey, making her one of the FBI's most
wanted. When the FBI decides to divulge her "serial killer" status, Don
Luis and his men know what's up, and all hell breaks loose.

Much has been said of the film's similarity with Besson's Léon and
Nikita, with many people musing that the film could just have well have
been a sequel to Léon with Natalie Portman's character all grown-up and
kicking butt (something fans have been dreaming about for years). Now I
haven't seen Nikita, but while there are similarities between Léon's
Mathilda and Colombiana's Cataleya, the two films are definitely not on
the same level. Colombiana is really your typical, run-of-the-mill
Besson action production, which is really not a bad thing. It is not in
the top-tier of these films (where I place films such as Taken and
Danny The Dog), but still a perfectly entertaining romp.

Viewers concerned with director Olivier Megaton due to the perceived
lack of action in Transporter 3, his previous film, need not be
concerned. The action here is almost non-stop, pretty much to the
detriment of plot. While the story has potential and could make for a
film with a lot more depth, whatever plot is here is minimal to the
max, recycled, cliché and basically a hodge-podge of all previous
hit-man/revenge/on-the-run-from-the-law films you've ever seen. There
is absolutely zero character development whatsoever and if you didn't
know that Cataleya's parents were murdered by Don Luis, you would have
no idea why any of the characters are doing what they're doing. I'm not
exaggerating, the Transformers films, heavily criticized for this
reason, have more character development.

But lack of plot depth isn't really a negative here. More depth would
have certainly made it a better film, but Colombiana is still
entertaining as a simple, straightforward, "dumb" B action flick. Like
all EuropaCorp films, production values are top-notch. The expected
Parkour chase is kept fresh by having it unfold with a child. Zoe
Saldana gives a great physical performance and spends a great deal of
time flitting in and out of vents and the various hits shown in the
film are all quite cool. The other actors also do fine, though Michael
Vartan's character has very little purpose and is actually barely in
the movie. Also this might be the only movie you'll ever see in which
toothbrushes are used as weapons.

In short, know what to expect from Colombiana (which literally means
Colombian woman by the way), and you'll enjoy it fine. It's a
straight-up action movie, no more, no less, very low on plot, high on
action, that falls straight into the heap with the scores of other
similar Besson-produced films, though it doesn't possess the touches of
humor that most of his other productions have. In comparison to the
other hit-man movies of the year, it's superior to The Mechanic, but
way inferior to Hanna (though it contains a lot more action than Hanna,
which shouldn't be seen as an action film). This is no Léon: The
Professional 2, fans can keep hoping that Besson and Portman work that
one out at some point (interestingly, Megaton is first in line to
direct if that movie does happen).
<|_=00=_|>
I guess some people just expect an award winning movie and actors every
time they step foot into a theatre. I was doubtful about this movie in
spite of the decent trailers. From start to finish I was blown away
with the storyline and its continuous different turns. Maybe its not
completely original in terms of the overall story, but what movie is
these days. Colombiana keeps you glued to the screen. It has moments of
love and drama, and then it brings out the action and suspense. I have
not written a review in quite some time, but when a movie is receiving
undue praise or criticism then i feel obligated to disclose the truth
to the public. Do yourself a favor and go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a midnight screening last night at Times Square because I've
been wanting to see this picture for quite some time. With Colombiana
movie posters on every street corner and wall I figured it was going to
be a tremendous blockbuster to end the summer with. Didn't exactly end
up that way.

With some of the names behind this film, I was surprised at the
abundance of cheesy bad guys, predictable scenes, and flat supporting
characters. The only thing that moves this story along is Zoe Saldana
herself with her tremendous presence on screen and beauty, which is
breathtaking. She's very believable as a stone-cold assassin,
especially the way she sneaks and crawls around with ninja like
precision.

It's too bad they couldn't place Zoe and her character into a better
storyline and provide her with stronger support. Without giving away
the ending, there's also a final fist fight scene in the end which
looked like it was filmed and edited by two high-school kids. Isn't
this 2011? The technology there was very lacking or done in poor
choice.

I still would recommend seeing the movie as its not bad-bad and there
are some cool kill scenes, but I wouldn't qualify it as a must-see. The
movie is somewhat groundbreaking only for the fact we have a Latina
female as the lead role in an action film, hopefully this finally opens
to the door for other darker skinned actresses in similar roles, which
has been long overdue.
<|_=00=_|>
There are times when Colombiana almost works, but that's not good
enough. 

The film stumbles in some ways that actually surprised me. For an
action film, Colombiana is inexcusably lumbering. Its rhythm is all
over the place, sometimes it's beautiful, sometimes it's broody, but
most of the time it's just kinda boring.

I really like Zoe Saldana, even though her body is a better actress
than she is. She moves like a ballerina and fights like an anorexic
tiger, and she even achieves mild success in playing drunk comedicly
(in a campy sort of way). It's too bad that most of the film demands
little of what she's good at and more of something that requires an
actor. Colombiana is burdened by too many scenes of poorly written,
over-expository dialogue and false emotion. 

In a way the vast bulk of the film becomes a build up for the climax.
We know where we're going, but it's how we get there that is important,
or so they say. I think if the pay off was better, it might've helped
the movie a little as well, but no. the Climax feels rushed, and loud,
and almost devoid of excitement.

Another thing worth mentioning is that Colombiana is one of those films
where the hero gets from a to b using either coincidence or methods
that are kept from the audience (which is frustrating). I love the fact
that in one moment, Zoe has mere seconds to escape a garage turns to
the air vent, and the bolts just happen to be loose enough to unscrew
with her fingertips. 

Columbiana left me with a feeling of shock. It's not a complete
failure, but it doesn't end up delivering what it should have. It's
almost a popcorn movie where the audience eats popcorn to stay awake. I
can't say I recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this is NOT a movie about Colombia. The producers may have
failed on representing it but this is not the POINT of this movie. It's
an action movie about a girl from Colombia and that's pretty much it
regarding Colombia. Don't get all frustrated with it. Here's my quick
review: 

1 - Trailer: I wanted to see this movie mostly based on the trailer
which I found catchy. Action and sexy Zoe Saldana sells it all. Still I
went on a cheap night because I wasn't convinced this would be worth
the full price entry. What you see in the trailer is what you get. A
lot of action left to be seen and overall it's a good intro to the
movie.

2 - Cast & Characters: Ahhh Zoe Zoe! It's hard to watch her rather than
just stare at her. She delivers a pretty solid performance in this
movie. She goes all around sneaking up the bad guys and taking them out
in creative and yet plausible ways unlike Angelina Jolie in Salt (2010)
where her 100 pounds character takes out multiple 250 pounds guys in
fist fights. The supporting characters are your "typical" Mexican
(Colombian in this story!) guys that pretty much do nothing other than
holding guns outside a villa and sipping on drink and cigars. Generic
police guys fill the rest of the cast but I found Callum Blue quite
enjoyable to watch.

3 - Plot & Story: I think the story is so generic that the little
twists added to the script makes them even more surprising. You always
feel like you know the next move but most of the time something
unexpected happens. Unfortunately, the script as a whole is a bit
sloppy and poorly paced. I didn't get bored at all in this movie and
though the intrigue isn't much catchy, it was enough to keep me
interested. There are many laughable moments (mostly intended) which is
fun but the drama is really cheesy.

4 - Theme & Genre: As an action flick, this one stands right. It isn't
a melting pot of car crashes and explosions out of nowhere. There is
plenty of action and a good mix between Hollywood fireworks and
realistic fights. The camera angles and editing sometimes get confusing
but in some scenes they really add something cool to watch.

5 - Overall Appreciation: Alright let's face the obvious. There is no
Oscars material here. This will get MTV Teen Choice Awards at best.
It's a cheap night movie that is entertaining to watch and where you
should not expect a classic in cinema. Did I appreciate it? Yes! Is it
good? Not bad. I give it 6 out of 10 for Zoe Saldana, good fight scenes
and cinematography. Too bad the supporting characters, cheesy drama and
poor script kills it a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
The latest work from Europacorp didn't disappoint me. I love Luc
Besson's mad action flicks and this was no different. Zoe Saldana is
class as the sexy killer ready to do anything to get revenge on the
criminals who murdered her family. It's territory we've seen over and
over but I enjoyed it. The films action, when it comes, is thrilling.
There are some inventive kills and a good little straightner at the end
involving toothbrushes (believe it or not). Saldana will probably come
a long way after this in terms of action roles and it's nice to see an
actress who can act as well as kick ass. Lennie James is a bit on the
didgy side with an accent that sometimes sounds like a drunken person
at an Indian restaurant doing a bad impression of the waiter. He's a
still a good actor all the same. I hope they continue to make these
sorts of action films where I can just switch of and enjoy them because
as long as they make them, I'll watch them. ***/*****.
<|_=00=_|>
Zoe Saldana is a star on the rise, she's strong, beautiful, intelligent
and a decent actress. Time to test her star meter as she takes the lead
for the first time on her own in an action film. In Hollywood, it's
rare to have an action movie staring a female, you need a good actress
to take the lead in order for it to be taken seriously. But my
boyfriend really wanted to see this movie because he just adores Zoe, I
think he just has a good crush on her, but it was his turn for the
rental. We watched it a couple nights ago and to my surprise without
any knowledge of the film prior to seeing it, I really did enjoy this
movie. I'm a little surprised at the rating as this is a better movie
that I've seen for a while at least for 2011. I thought Zoe made a
great action star, she was tough, sexy and brought a lot to a typical
story.

Fabio, a gangster and drug runner, has a meeting with Don Luis, to pay
off his remaining debt and leave his employment. Fabio, however, knows
that Don Luis will put a hit out on him for leaving with a valuable
item that he holds and wants, a small disk with valuable information on
the drug lords, so he rushes home to prepare his wife, Alicia and his
young daughter, Cataleya. Fabio hands Cataleya the item that Don Luis
wants, telling her not to lose it and to give it to the Ambassador
telling her that it is "her passport". He also gives Cataleya an
address in Chicago. She then uses the business card her father gave her
to get into the U.S. Embassy and goes to the Ambassador's office. In
exchange for this, they give her a passport and a small amount of cash,
and fly her to Miami. She goes to Chicago after and meets her uncle
Emilio, who teaches her how to become one of the slickest killers. She
grows into a strong woman who eventually goes in above her head going
into a personal revenge plot on her parent's death.

The story may be predictable, but I liked the way it was handled over
all. The action scenes were very tight and exciting. I loved that first
scene with Cataleyna in the jail cell, it was very clever and almost
reminded me of Catwoman the way she was just sliding her way through
things. One thing I wished they would have talked about more was her
feeling so lonely, it's a very brief conversation she has with her
lover when he asks what she feels every night and it's never touched on
again. She goes through this tough time as a child and it was just like
to see her as an adult was more about the fighting and not the
struggles she faces at times. But the actors did a good job, much
credit to the man who played her uncle, Cliff Curtis, who had excellent
chemistry with her. The film does need to explain more with the story
but I felt that this was still a good movie with it's action and
characters. Zoe is a good actress and I can't wait to see her more in
the future.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen the trailer then you pretty much know what's coming. I
personally thought it was a pretty good flick and the action throughout
the movie definitely keeps your interest.

My only thought was that they should have gone ahead and pushed it to
an "R" rated movie. With all the action and shooting, I believe there
was almost little to no blood. I know the issue with too much violence
and maybe they were trying to get a younger audience the ability to see
this movie but it was lacking the "pop" factor by whitewashing too many
scenes. Zoe Saldana did a superb job in this movie and I only wish that
some of the supporting cast could have been on the same level that she
is on.

IMHO
<|_=00=_|>
I am giving this an 8, although it might be a 7, about the only bad
thing I can say about the movie is that, yes, the plot is somewhat of a
rehashed, predictable type of thing. However, Saldana is both sexy and
charming and dangerous from the moment she shows up drunk in a tight
dress. Yes you have to suspend disbelief a little bit to believe a gal
who can't weigh over 95 pounds soaking wet can fight big strong guys,
but good movies make you suspend disbelief, and this is a good movie.

Why is it good, because, unlike many action movies these days, they do
take a few minutes to establish the main character as a person, so you
care what happens to her, and also care if she achieves her goals.

I just watched it again on regular TV after renting it shortly after it
came out, still and enjoyable flick, you have to like action/revenge
flicks, but if you do this one fits the bill nicely.
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch Movies like this you want a lot of Cool Action, stylish
presentation, and an energy driven scenario that is a Comic Book like
other place. This one has all that. Not very intelligent or plausible
or much to think about, just a visceral ride for a mind-numbing couple
of hours.

This is a slick and entertaining Girl With Guns romp, a favorite
Character from Writer Luc Besson. His Films have a wide appeal and have
varying degrees of success both as Art and as Entertainment. His best
work is miles above his contemporaries and his worst is better than
average.

This one falls in between. It is Artistic and will please Fans of the
Genre, but does not rate as near his best. It is above average in its
frantic display of rampaging revenge and glossy fights that are
appealing as flights of fancy. Not much here is believable in any real
sense, but that is the attraction of Comic Books. Luc Besson owes much
to that format and Artform. He is a Writer/Director who pays his debts.
