
This star studded movie just never takes off. It is slow and never
builds up to anything. When you think it is going to get good it falls
flat and just drags on. There are scenes, like the sex club, that just
make no sense and you have to wonder why it was put in the movie. Sex
is a theme and that can only be my guess as to why.

Would have been great to develop more of the characters instead of
having them in the movie to just have them. Ice Cube was great, but
only has a few scenes. You wont realize who Ben Foster is until you
read the credits.

Spoiler The ending is horrible. If I was at the screening I would have
booed. After an hour the movie could have ended and I was like are they
ever gonna wrap this up. The story is horrible, though the actors are
great and that is what the other reviews touch on. GREAT actors,
horrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Dirty cops happen in real life
sometimes and in the movies quite often. It can be an intriguing
subject to explore ... psychological demons, ego, power-mongering, etc.
Typically we see it presented as a cop torn between doing the right
thing and feeling like he is owed something. Rarely do we see a cop
portrayed as beyond hope ... so far gone morally that redemption is no
longer even a possibility.

Writer James Ellroy (LA Confidential) and director Oren Moverman (The
Messenger) present to us Officer Dave Brown, known to his fellow cops
(and even his daughter) as "Date Rape" Dave. The moniker stems from a
vice incident where Brown dished out street justice to a serial date
rapist. With no proof of his guilt, Brown remained on the force and his
rogue manner has escalated to the point where he is a constant danger
to himself and others. This guy has no moral filter for everyday
living.

Officer Brown is played with searing intensity by a Woody Harrelson you
have never before seen. As loathsome a character as you will ever find,
you cannot take your eyes off of him. He is hated by EVERYONE! Somehow
he has daughters by two sisters and they all live together in a messed
up commune where hate is the secret word of the day, every day. Most of
the time no one speaks to Dave except to tell him to "get out". He
spends his off hours drinking, smoking, doing drugs and having
meaningless sex. Heck, that's just about how he spends his time while
on duty as well.

The supporting cast is phenomenal, though most aren't given but a scene
or two. This includes Robin Wright (who nearly matches Dave in the
tortured soul department), Sigourney Weaver, Anne Heche, Cynthia Nixon,
Ned Beatty, Ben Foster, Ice Cube, and Steve Buscemi. The first hour
feels like an Actor's Retreat as most every scene introduces another
familiar face.

Still, as terrific as Harrelson is, and as deep as the cast is, the
film is just too one note and downbeat and hopeless to captivate a
viewer. I also found some of Moverman's camera work to be quite
distracting and the sex club scene was pure overkill. Downward spiral
is much too neutral a term to describe this character and ultimately,
that prevents the film from delivering any type of message.
<|_=00=_|>
All four stars are for the cast. It's not their fault this movie is
awful.

Harrelson is great. He's an engaging actor, totally believable. It's a
shame the script isn't.

Harrelson plays a brutal, murderous cop who is caught beating down a
black guy in the street. Yet his home life is ultra liberal, he lives
with two sisters, with whom he's had two kids during separate
relationships. One of his daughters is pushing boundaries yet Woody
doesn't seem to challenge this, one of the sisters is an artist, again
not exactly fitting in with the hard-line discipline Harrelson is
dishing out on the street. He's immediately defined as a sexist, racist
homophobe, yet we're asked to believe that he's knocked up two
intelligent, lefty sisters, who are still willing to accommodate him in
their lives, and indeed home, despite his lifetime of indiscretions and
violence and that he's managed to split this work and home life without
a significant issue developing through the life of the girls (the
eldest of who is mid teens at least). The family dynamic could have
been interesting but it wasn't explored at all really, it just got
crammed in and thus didn't fit with the character at all.

The supporting cast is really strong and the acting is solid throughout
but not one of the plots get developed and not one aspect reaches a
conclusion. Obviously, this was done on purpose but if I pay to see a
film, I want to see the whole ****ing film, not just half a story!
Buscemi has about three lines. Ice Cube, who I rate highly, has a
handful of scenes as an internal investigator, all of which are well
enough constructed but end without any resolution. Robin Wright is
great, foxy as ****, but again, other than to identify Harrelson as a
paranoid womaniser, we get nothing back. Anne Henche and Cynthia Nixon
play his former partners and both are well played again but they're
just sketches of characters, as is Sigourney Weaver, also restricted to
about 3 minutes of screen time.

Basically, it feels like the first, long, episode in a made for TV
series. If that was the case, I'd certainly watch more because there is
a lot there and the on screen talent is superb but as a stand alone
film it's a massive let down and it goes absolutely nowhere at the end
of 2 hours.

Oh, and the sex club scene is particularly pointless, if any such scene
can be. It just seems like a random bit of editing that has shoved a
half idea into an already over-stretched concept.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start??

Story Line & Story Logic:

1) I don't know about police in other cities, but here in Los Angeles
(and most likely every major city in the U.S.), cops do NOT drive
around policing their neighborhood beat by themselves -- there is
ALWAYS two cops per car. Standard LAPD protocol, and is also a safety
issue working the beat for the cops. Yet, in this movie, the cop
working the beat out of the Rampart Division -- a notoriously
dangerous/difficult part of LA -- works the beat by himself. Bullsh*t.
Wouldn't happen, and didn't happen in 1999, when this movie takes
place.

The movie starts out with the cop (Harrelson) teaching a newbie, who's
driving with him, but that storyline is gone after the first 8 minutes
or so of the movie. (And is an entirely pointless part of the story,
other than to show this cop is a sexist.)

2) After he's caught beating the crap out of someone he was chasing, on
camera, he is NOT removed from his beat, but stays on working his beat.
(Or maybe he's removed for a little while, but is then back on the beat
20+ minutes later, with no explanation as to why he's back on the
beat.) Sorry, filmmaker/Director/Writer of this horrible movie, but why
is he back on the beat? Would NEVER happen. He would be suspended, with
or without pay, but would not be back on the street until everything is
entirely resolved. What LAPD brass -- in reality -- would ever allow a
cop back on the street beat after a firestorm of protests, media, etc?
Did the cops caught beating Rodney King (8 years prior to this film's
timeline) go back on the street right after? NO. It's also a safety
issue for the cop, and a race relations issue for the City, too.

Why do the filmmakers defy story logic, or even basic LAPD procedures
like this? Are they that moronic in their storytelling? Apparently so.

3) Why call this movie "Rampart"? What's the point? This movie has
nothing to do with the Rampart/LAPD scandal of the late '90s. Nothing.
Even the backstory of the Rampart scandal has virtually nothing to do
with this film's storyline. It appears as though the filmmakers are
just "trading" on the Rampart name, and thus misleading prospective
movie-goers that this will be about the LAPD & the Rampart scandal.

Few people outside of LA know anything about "Rampart," so this name
means nothing to them and is pointless. The story is about a corrupt
cop, period. It has nothing to do with any particular area of LA, and
ultimately just adds tarnish to a part of LA.

The Movie Overall: I can not, could not, find one redeeming thing about
this train wreck of a film. It's boring, it's redundant, it defies
logical sense and typical police department procedures.

Here's an example of the redundant nature: Sometime after the midpoint
of the film, Harrelson begins to show paranoia. Okay, so presumably the
director wanted to show him sinking mentally. Fine. A couple scenes is
plenty. Why show scene after scene after scene of him being paranoid,
when that's the only purpose of those scenes? We got it, let's get on
with the story. Oh... but there is no real story, that's the main
problem with this film. Another reviewer said this film was like
watching paint dry. That reviewer was too kind.

Here's an example of something else that would never happen with the
LAPD: Late in the film, Harrelson is running out of money for his
attorneys defending him (over his Rodney King-style beating), so he's
going to bust up a neighborhood high-stakes poker game and steal their
money. He's now nearby, by himself, and in uniform with his police car
(remember, he's inexplicably still able to work his beat while under
investigation for police misconduct/brutality). How is he going to
"legitimately" bust up a poker game by himself with no backup? NEVER
would happen. Even a corrupt cop couldn't do this and get away with it.
Not in any major city in the U.S. For one thing, Vice would be
involved, and secondly, no bust would be attempted without numerous
officers. A single cop wouldn't/couldn't EVEN get the authority from
his superiors to enter by himself.

So what happens? Instead of the director having to go through with this
incredibly unrealistic storyline, he has 2 armed thugs show up and rob
the game, with Harrelson looking on. (They were not in "partnership"
with Harrelson, although that approach in the story would have been
more plausible.) The thugs run out, and one of the poker players runs
out chasing after the armed thugs. (Yeah, riiiight... an unarmed poker
player is going to chase armed thugs down the street....) So Harrelson
runs after them all, shooting & killing the innocent poker player and
wounding one of the robbers. He then tells the wounded robber to take
some of the money out of the robber's bag for himself and split, and
then plants a gun in the innocent poker player's hand. So if we didn't
think Harrelson was bad enough at this point, we can now dislike him
even more.

This movie is a COMPLETE MESS, with no real story, just a bunch of
scenes strung together with the same sh*t happening in every scene.
There's an attempt to show that Harrelson is old LAPD and the
department is changing, but this is NOT a developed storyline. How did
the Director/Writer even get financing for this piece of crap?? I'll
tell ya this: The movie will make no money when it's released
(supposedly in January), and if this Director wants a career as a
Director, he'd better learn how direct and tell a cogent story.
<|_=00=_|>
Always watchable largely thanks to Harrelson--he's really quite
good---but never quite believable film tracks a couple days in the life
of a not exactly dirty, but not exactly clean cop. To my mind,
Harrelson's character isn't exactly dirty--we never witness him taking
bribes, or stealing money, or looking the other way--he's just way
overzealous in his pursuit of bad guys--actually scratch
that--something happens at the mid-point that actually changes part of
that last statement--but he still remains a clean(ish) cop trying to do
right by society, even guys he claims to hate--he tries to give a fair
shake to. Its that overzealousness that lands him in trouble tho---he
beats 2 people in the first ten minutes of the movie--but in both cases
i think they were both understandably beatings given the circumstances.
Meh whatever, film starts piling things on for Harrelson--having been
caught with a cell phone cam beating up the 2nd guy (who was running
away from him!) he's then put on suspension, and then he gets put under
investigation which leads to...not a whole lot honestly.

Film is a very shaggy dog story---Not much really happens throughout
the movie other then just watching Woody Harrelson walk around and talk
tough---he tries to bond with his teenage daughter, he tries to make it
right with his ex wives, he tries to figure out what Internal Affairs
wants to hear so he can get his job back, and yeah that's about it
really. I feel like the events of the end don't really add up to much,
and the big climactic scene at the ending is well again not much of
anything really. Film is basically a 70's Esq character study of this
guy and his life that seems to be arbitrarily falling apart around him.
That said, the film's well shot, its nicely acted and not just by
Harrelson, the actress playing his teenage daughter i feel scores just
as many points as Woody does in their handful of scenes together.
There's enough here that you wish it was better instead of the
mish-mash stew we got going on here. still its worth a look on cable
should you stumble on it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea what this was based on before I went in to watch it.
Everyone (well many) were raving about Woody Harrelsons performance.
But the feeling I got from the movie, the vibe it has, does remind one
of James Ellroy. Especially if you have read one of his novels (which
conveniently enough I just had finished one).

What you have to accept (if you can), is the fact, that this is a very
dark miserable, but strangely endearing person. The character Woodys
playing does not feel he's doing anything wrong. And you have to admire
the honesty (he doesn't pretend, he's a straight shooter). Sometimes
you may admire him, sometimes you may hate him. But you cannot say that
he is fake.

Having said that, this matter will decide if you like or hate the
movie. It's not really an easy movie at all. I wouldn't dare calling
the watching experience as pleasant, but it sure was something
incredible!
<|_=00=_|>
This film would be almost intolerable were it not for the fact that it
is based on incidents that happened in 1999 in the Rampart Division of
the LAPD, incidents still unresolved. Writer James Ellroy examined the
corruption of the police force and came up with this quasi-true story.
According to Ellroy, 'I am a master of fiction. I am also the greatest
crime writer who ever lived. I am to the crime novel in specific what
Leo Tolstoy is to the Russian novel and what Ludwig van Beethoven is to
music.' What happens on the screen in this film is best viewed with a
bit of Xanax on board along with an anti-nausea medication. Oren
Moverman co-wrote the screenplay and directs.

David Douglas Brown (Woody Harrelson in a one man powerhouse of a
performance) is a veteran Los Angeles police officer, one of the last
of the renegade cops who works out of the Rampart Division. Dave is
misogynistic, racist, brutally violent, egotistical womanizer, yet he
defends himself against many of these accusations as he says that his
hate is equal opportunity. Though unlawful, he uses intimidation and
brutal force to defend his worldview. The most notorious of his actions
is his purportedly murdering a suspected serial date rapist, which is
why he has been given the nickname "Date Rape Dave". He lives with two
of his ex- wives - sisters Barbara (Cynthia Nixon) and Catherine (Anne
Heche) - in an effort to keep family together, namely his two
daughters, Helen and Margaret, who each have a different sister as
their mother. Dave still maintains a sexual relationship with both
sisters - whenever the mood suits any of them - while he openly has
other sexual relationships with the likes of Sarah (Audra McDonald) and
Linda (Robin Wright). His informer is retired officer Hartshorn (Ned
Beatty) and street person General Terry (Ben Foster). His boss is Joan
Confrey (Sigourney Weaver) who attempts to cover Dave's past deeds but
ultimately must face the true rascallion he is. When Dave is caught on
video brutally beating a man who accidentally ran into his police car
he is faced with decisions that uncover not only his misdeeds but those
of his fellow workers.

The cast is filled with fine support (Jon Foster, Ice Cube, Steve
Buscemi, et al) who have very little to do, but Harrelson is in every
frame obnoxiously smoking cigarettes in a chain smoker fashion. There
is not real storyline to follow; we just are forced to watch the
wretched life of a disgustingly bad cop with just enough slightly good
virtues to keep us with him. As Catherine states, 'You know what I
think? I think you were a dirty cop from day one. You were a dirty cop
with a dirty mind and you dirtied all of us up by default.' And that
includes the audience. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Regarded in the trailer as "one of the most corrupt cops ever on
screen," Woody Harrelson's character was honestly underwhelming. The
actor did an exceptional job portraying a dirty cop, but was no where
near the capacity of evil as Denzel in Training Day or Damon in The
Departed. His portrayal was very real which is a characteristic that
Oren Moverman appears to gravitate to in his films and while Moverman,
in his second theatrical film, does a good job, it is no where near
what he achieved in his amazing debut The Messenger. Harrelson did a
fine job but he also failed to achieve the same greatness that he
displayed in The Messanger as well. Some of the talented character
actors in the film like Ben Foster and Sigourney Weaver deliver solid
performances but aren't on screen enough make any impact overall to the
film. It's a film that due to it's original limited release will likely
struggle at the box office and moviegoers aren't missing too much in
the process. I enjoy dramatic movies more than any other genre, but I
found this film bland and the characters for the most part only OK at
best. The actors did a good job but not good enough to make the film a
success. There was just no wow factor in this film, which anticipated
the wow factor being Harrelson's villainous performance. I'd give it a
C in large part due to a broad and bland plot which could've been much
better.
<|_=00=_|>
Creepy, vile, and compelling.

It's horribly dark and almost impossible up watch. Definitely not a
date movie. I feel filthy and dirty after being in its presence. Yet
forced to confront the degree to which I live only for my own
compulsions at the price of those I hold dear.

A very hard work to digest, with, unfortunately, a major let down of an
ending. After dragging you though the muck for nearly two hours, you're
left hanging.

Perhaps "Rampart's" greatest strength is in providing a very accurate
example, without being preachy, of what a person's life will become
when he/she shuts out all the people around them and lives only for
him/herself and his/her compulsions.

"Rampart" can easily serve as mandatory viewing for anyone dealing with
addiction in any one of its multifaceted forms. Perhaps by witnessing
such an extreme case as is portrayed in this film, the viewer can see
the necessity for redemption. The consequences of not doing so
resulting in the spiral into self-destruction that Woody Harrelson's
character experiences in this film.

Wonderfully acted by all involved who elevate this film beyond its own
meanderings. Anne Heche's character has a delicious scene at the end
where she just gets to nail Harrelson but good. That must have been a
lot of fun for her. And terrific work from the young actress playing
Harrelson's daughter.

A very troubling film but one that deserves major props for
originality. I think it took a lot of bravery to make a film like this
that is in a way such and anti-film. It's amazing something as
difficult and unrewarding for the viewer as this film is could get made
in today's climate of pandering to focus groups, etc. 

Still this film does kind of suck. But it kinda sucks for all the right
reasons. It sucks because it's not "Training Day" or "Bad Lieutenant".
It's not some thrill-ride, wish-fulfillment fantasy of how much fun it
would be to be a bad-ass cop who goes out with a bang in the end. Nor
is it a dramatic recreation of real life events to better understand a
moment of historical significance. Yet, this film is the real deal. If
it weren't for the striking cinematography, and terrific acting work
from recognizable faces you'd swear you were watching a documentary.

I suppose that's why I'm left hanging at the end. And I suppose I'm
alright with that. Kudos!
<|_=00=_|>
Do you know when you see a movie that you have read great reviews about
and then you watch it and ask yourself "how can they call that a good
movie?", this is it. Great actors who do a great job but this movie
never goes anywhere. The only people who would call this movie great
are the people who pretend to be artsy film experts. I can't believe
they would waste all these talented actors on a movie with no ending. I
can't really think of a movie to compare it to but one comes to mind
although I liked it better - No Country For Old Men. Remember when you
watched it and Josh Brolin was apparently killed but they never show
it. Remember thinking how much you didn't like that? Well this movie
kind of leaves that "It would be nice if they finished it" taste in
your mouth. Maybe Woody would will an Oscar because of the artsy type
feel of the movie, but the movie should win a Rotten Tomatoes award.
