
As I guy who has spent a lot of time in Canada's wilderness these past
40 years, most of it in wolf country, the wolf behaviour depicted in
this movie is ridiculous. 

It begins with a scene in which a lone timber wolf charges three grown
men standing near a truck. No wolf would ever behave like this. Despite
all the time I've spent in areas with large wolf populations (with lots
of tracks around), I've only ever caught fleeting glimpses of three or
four of them,and that's when I was by myself, unarmed and completely
vulnerable.

The idea that a pack of wolves would attempt to prey on a group of men
is also ridiculous. There has been only one documented predatory wolf
attack in North America in the past 200 years, and that involved a
large pack and a solitary hiker in Saskatchewan a few years ago.

As any wolf biologist would tell you, you can walk up to a pack of
wolves feeding on a fresh kill, completely unarmed, and the wolves will
scatter. They'd stay and fight a grizzly, but one whiff/sight of human
and they'd quickly turn and run.

The size of the wolves in this movie is another misrepresentation. The
biggest timber wolf on record, when they emptied 20 pounds of meat from
his stomach, was a male weighing 120 pounds. The average male is around
90 pounds. A lone wolf would be a very poor match for a 200 pound man
armed with a knife.

The plot revolved around the wolf's protection of their den. Stupid.
Wolves only den when the alpha female gives birth in the spring. And
they sure wouldn't be driving the men toward the den in that situation
- quite the opposite. Nor do they scatter the bones of all their kills
around the den - that would only draw other predators, like grizzlies.
Instead, the adults eat at site of the kill and regurgitate the meat
for the pups when they get back to the den.

Finally, our so-called wolf expert devised all sorts of idiotic
defences against the wolves, but ignored the one thing any group of
true woodsmen would do in a similar situation (i.e. facing wolves on
crack). That's use their knives to make spears. A group of men with
spears would be impregnable to a pack of wolves, no matter how large,
as no predator likes to risk injury.

Dumb, dumb, dumb. If you're going to spend millions on a movie,
wouldn't it make sense to spend $10 on a good wolf book first?
<|_=00=_|>
I am in utter SHOCK of the 9 and 10 ratings for this movie. I just saw
this movie and thought it was HORRIBLE. I use to have so much respect
for the ratings system on this website This is a complete outrage that
people are giving this a 10 star. Warning- do not read if you haven't
seen the film and wish not to hear major spoilers. However, continue
reading if you want to save $10. Im going to start by saying, the
trailer for this film totally throws the viewer off and doesn't follow
up with what is promised. For all of the people that thought this was a
9 or 10, i encourage you to write me back and i challenge any of you to
explain yourselves. The following is my list of events that made this
movie as bad as it is.

1) The movie is so unrealistic its funny. 7 people survive a plane
crash in the middle of Alaska. They sleep outside for days- with little
2 foot fires they made. ARE You SERIOUS you would be dead or frozen
within hours . The so called killer wolves. I've seen my fair share of
animal shows- wolves kill things to eat them. Not just to kill
something. All of the people killed in the movie are killed and never
eaten. Here is the big one- Liam is still alive after being outside in
ALASKA for three days, Blizzard like conditions, probably negative
temps, a massive wolf bite to the knee and guess what he does on the
third day. He jumps into an Alaskan river for 3 minutes. And walks away
completely fine. After being in the Alaskan wilderness for days jumping
into water that is 32 digress would give you instant hypothermia- and
you would be dead in about 30 minutes.

2) THe premise of the story is so bad and makes no sense. In the start
of the movie we are believing that Neesen is some master wolf killer
and survival expert. Guess what this expert wolf killer manages to do.
He doesn't kill one frigging wolf the entire time they are out there.
He convinces the remaining survivors to flee into the woods or they
will die. Guess what happens- EVERYONE DIES. He didn't protect anyone
let alone use any expert survival knowledge at all. He lit all the
fires with the oil and matches. For all these people who say this is a
"Survival Movie at its Best" in there reviews. Are you serious. what
does he do throughout the movie that you think he is a survival expert.

3) I found myself laughing out loud in the theater at some of the
scenes. - Because they were so out of control and unrealistic. 1) I
found it funny that the guys were gathered around a fire laughing and
joking when 20 minutes earlier someone just got killed by a WOLF. 2)
The guys decide there best way of survival is to get down to a river
they can hear. SO they decide to jump of a CLIFF with some rope/bed
sheets they miraculously found in ten seconds. Are you kidding Me. Oh
yeah the last guy falls to the ground and is killed by 3 wolves waiting
for him down there. Did the wolves transport down the 100 foot cliff.
Some of the wolf scenes were LOL funny. They would be chasing the
people and Liam would say "RUN" the survivors would start running in 3
feet of snow going 1 mile an hour but the wolfs never could keep up.

Movie was horrible
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I realize Hollywood is Hollywood and it is normal for them to
bend reality a little for the sake of their art. And I can suspend
belief for a few hours when necessary ... after all a science fiction
movie is fiction and a fairy tale is just that. But this film didn't
"bend" reality so much as break it, throw it in the mud, then trample
all over it and toss it in the trash.

I could fill at least one tightly spaced page with all the things that
defy reason in this film but I'll try to limit myself to just a few. I
have been to Alaska in the winter. I know people that have worked the
oil fields. I know that in Alaska or Northern Canada you don't wander
around in near white-out conditions, with the temps below zero, without
COMPLETELY covering EVERY part of your body. You don't tramp around
with your ears, nose, chin, etc. unprotected, and your coat only
partially zipped up, as the survivors did when they left the plane.

The Neeson character is shown at the beginning of the film using a
high-power rifle, which he carries in a distinctive case. After the
plane crash he finds his rifle case and his broken rifle, but he also
finds shot gun shells in the case. ???? He didn't even have a shot gun;
why would he carry shot gun shells? We later find that they are a
contrivance -- tossed in only to foist an completely unrealistic plot
element on us. (I guarantee that using those shells the way the movie
tried to would result in MAYBE 1 in 100 of them firing. I can explain
why if you can't figure it out yourself) Again, the weather. After
spending a night in a blizzard ... a night in which their fire goes out
(at least there is no fire in the morning scene), at least two of the
characters are shown waking up bare-headed, their coats partially
unfastened and no sign of blankets but, miraculously, they are
bright-eyed,almost chipper and ready to go after their hours long
ordeal in sub-zero weather.

The wolves. What can you say about the wolves except that real wolves
act NOTHING like those depicted in this movie. No real, wild wolf would
go anywhere near fire the way these mutts do. Real wolves don't hunt
humans over miles and miles of territory like the movies unless MAYBE
... PERHAPS ... they are near starved and ready to eat anything. Real
wolves don't normally kill unless it's for food. And how did those
wolves get down that massive cliff anyway? And how did they know in
advance where the humans were going? They must have known since they
were there waiting for them. If you want to know what real wolves act
like, read Farley Mowat.

I didn't have time to try and enjoy this movie as art because every few
moments My reason was assaulted with totally contrived, totally
unrealistic plot elements. I kept finding myself shaking my head and
telling myself, "That's not remotely close to reality." As I said, I
could fill many lines with similar discrepancies. I wouldn't be so
critical if this movie was marketed as a survival FANTASY, but it's
not. It's presented as a straight forward survival movie with some
attempts at mysticism and philosophy ad nauseum thrown in. Don't waste
your time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really depressing and disturbing film - almost certainly a
bust at the box office but "The Grey" is really really good - an
existentialist parable - in wolves clothing.

Life is nasty - it is a struggle without meaning except for the
struggle itself and the nobility in having done that well regardless of
the end result. That's what the film was about - not an action picture
- not a scientifically accurate portrayal of wolves but an allegory - a
metaphor about the existential view of life.

The circling and relentless wolves - the beautiful yet cold and
uncaring Siberian landscape - the different attitudes of the
participants to the pointless struggle yet heroic effort which no one
will ever know about - succinct, powerful and poignant.

One of the few films that will be remembered in future decades in what
has been a especially weak year. "The Grey" is not for the faint of
heart or those looking for cheap thrills - but it is an unusually brave
and beautiful exposition of an unpopular and depressing philosophical
view of life...
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies I have ever seen. I just made no sense
whatsoever! (Possible spoilers!) Why would they leave the plane, which
I'm sure had a GPS locater and instead go run into the wilderness where
they have little possibility of ever being found? Why would they not
use the parts of the plane to build a barrier and ring of fire around
themselves? Why did they not scavenge the plane for any and everything
useful (i.e., extra clothes, food, those mini-liquor bottles to fuel a
fire, sharp pieces of broken metal to fight the wolves, etc.)? What
happened to those bullet sticks they all once had? Why would you trudge
through knee-deep snow, knowing that wolves were around without at
least a big stick? And once you did find a river, why would you not try
to construct some sort of raft, being that most rivers flow to some
sort of civilization? And how could you just leave someone alone to
die? And really? That river wasn't that deep--he couldn't have figured
out that his foot was stuck? And then afterward, main character who
just came out of the freezing river, is running around without a jacket
and gloves and is not yet dead of hypothermia? Just seemed to me to be
about perfect candidates for the Darwin awards.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review ever, so please pardon me.

I won't talk about the plot in order not to spoil it but i'll just say
it's not just another chick-flick/action movie nor a documentary one
It's a man vs nature kind of movies like you've never seen before.

I saw the movie, blew my mind ,then-as usual- I came to read some
reviews about it on here .Then i saw many "hated it" reviews. So i
decided to say something about it

I think many people hated it or didn't even see it because they thought
it's another Taken/Unknown Liam Neeson's "action". Hence, the movie got
the wrong audience and the low ratings. Yes it has it's flaws, but if
you can see what this movie is you will definitely overlook it. But the
thing is, not everyone can, not the ordinary audience. You would know
what i mean if you already saw it.

It's kind of funny how people dislike this movie because of the
unrealistic events while they enjoy movies like mission impossible or
Sherlock Holmes moreover ,they praise them. are those realistic ? Well,
no. are they bad movies ? actually not at all for that type of movies.
So my point is that's not a reason for disliking a movie and as i said
before it's a movie not a documentary one.

My advice ,if you appreciate extraordinary movies and sick of the way
the they are heading nowadays, Just ignore the Critics and see it and
have a different experience.

P.S. I chose Sherlock Holmes and Mission Impossible as they were
released at nearly the same time as The Grey was and they got higher
ratings
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson the gritty action hero. How unbelievable that at nearly 60
years old, an actor can redefine his career and become more bankable.
Neeson has somehow re-channeled the seriousness he brought to dramatic
roles into creating utterly convincing heroes in decent (at best)
thrillers. 

But that's not "The Grey." "The Grey" earns marks far above decent, and
Neeson's performance makes it better. I know, the calendar clearly
reads January, but that's a matter of maximizing box-office potential
in this case. Writer/director Joe Carnahan ("The A-Team") has turned a
new leaf in this harrowing wilderness survival thriller, a film as
dedicated to exploring the true extent of the human will to live as
much as shocking its audience with menacing wolf attacks.

Neeson leads the pack in all manner of ways. Paid to protect oil
workers from nature's dangers (especially wolves), Neeson's character
Ottway turns out to be a group of drillers' best chance for survival
when their plane crashes in the Alaskan wilderness near a wolf den.
He's far from a boy scout, however, and he's emotionally wounded by the
past as evidenced by visions of his wife.

Most of the early indicators in the film give you the sense that Neeson
will do his usual solemn-faced hero routine that he executes to
perfection, but the way the film unfolds (not in terms of plot, but in
terms of the quality of the storytelling) asks him to go beyond that.
He definitely responds.

When looked at in its most fundamental form, "The Grey" could be
considered just another film in which a group of imperiled people die
one at a time en route to finding safety. Carnahan, however, slows down
that pace so that we can absorb the extent of the danger and imagine
ourselves in it. When death does occur, it's visually striking,
jaw-dropping and/or thought-provoking as compared to standard efforts
at the genre that involve only jump-scare deaths or death by character
stupidity. 

Only one character, Diaz (Frank Grillo) gets a stereotype as the
stubborn self-centered jerk who disagrees with Ottway on purpose. Most
movies would've killed him off before he got too annoying, but Carnahan
and co-writer Ian Mackenzie Jeffers (who wrote the short story the
film's based on), have more interesting plans in store for him. 

It's also not just a film about people being hunted by wolves in the
wilderness. There's no bloody man vs. wolf climactic battle, unlike
what the trailers would have you believe, so film fans prone to take
misleading marketing out on the film itself, be prepared. "The Grey" is
much more of a suspenseful drama with high-adrenaline scenes lurking
around every corner. 

As such, the visual style of "The Grey" asks for something different
from Carnahan than the over-the-top high-flying nature of his previous
two films, "The A-Team" and "Smokin' Aces." The overall tone is gritty
and naturalistic, so snow-caked beards without the blistering frostbite
makeup. 

The action is also more frenetic and gripping. Rather than shooting the
action scenes in a traditional sense, he wants the viewer to feel as if
they are experiencing them along with the characters. If a character
falls from a tree top and hits 20 branches on the way down, that's
exactly what the camera's doing. This maximizes the intensity of every
major sequence. As for the wolves, they're horrifying, yet never
painted as the bad guys. They're just part of nature.

When it comes to issues of faith and the will to survive, that's when
"The Grey" really jumps up and above the bar for its genre. The story
is told in such a way that when people die, it's not for our
entertainment, but to highlight the unpredictable nature of ... nature,
and life and death. As Ottway wrestles with these same issues, its
Neeson's performance that makes it hit home.

"The Grey" gives its audience the rare gift of genre-film entertainment
with some serious food for thought and an ample dose of emotion.
Carnahan's choices on how to tell the story, along with an ending not
typical of genre films, only make it all the stronger. Both he and
Neeson display the true nature of their strengths. Hopefully we've seen
only the beginning of Carnahan's potential, and that nature is kind
enough to Neeson to let him continue challenging the norm for the
standard heroic performance.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Check out my site moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
I would start from the positive. Excellent playing by Liam Neeson.
Great photography and great editing. Some parts are scary as intended.
That's the reason I gave it two stars and not one.

Now to the plot. That's the most implausible plot I have seen in my
recent memory. Starting from their decision to leave the crash site
with the lame excuse that nobody will find them there. This is really
stupid. They found the plane of JFK Junior in the bottom of the sea
within 24 hours of the crash. His airplane had less sophisticated
equipment and for sure they had a transponder that was constantly in
radio contact especially in a place like Alaska. 

Then the wolves' behavior. It looks very childish. It looks totally
wrong from my low level knowledge of pack animal behavior. I am not
going to give readers much more spoilers, but one of the decisions of
jumping off a cliff to tie a flimsy rope to a tree is totally
ridiculous. There was no point in doing that since they could have
continued to walk along it until the cliff is more manageable and then
there is the impossibility of a normal human being actually doing that.
Maybe I don't get this and this genre is like those impossible mission
impossible where the acrobatics is the essence here. Sorry. The IMDb
scoring normally correlates with my taste. Not this time.
<|_=00=_|>
I had to laugh at several scenes. Finally, while the credits were
rolling, it was all i could do to not let out a wolf yell. A plane
loses power and everyone's breath is visible but no one is concerned.
The plane is going down and the flight attendant is still walking the
isle? After the crash, is a clearly snow covered, desolate area there
are several survivors. All of a sudden the first wolf scene has trees
magically appearing in the barren landscape. Next one of the most
outlandish scenes has the few remaining fashion a rope from whatever
then ask a volunteer to jump 30' from a cliff, across a river, and land
in trees without injury. These guys are not Rambo, and no way can one
jump from this cliff and make it to the other side, in a tree.

Then there is the scene in the river where Liam is trying to rescue a
drowning victim. There is no way one can survive the frigid river then
walk out, lay down and then get up again without sever hypothermia.

And, last but not least, Liam stumbles upon the wolf den. My question
is: are these new wolves who've changed color or did the pack following
them manage to jump of a cliff, swim across the river and beat Liam to
their den?
<|_=00=_|>
Don't waste your time or money on this stupid movie. The ending alone
is enough to anger and frustrate any normal blooded viewer, but add to
that all the foolishness the characters display and you have to have no
intellect to enjoy this movie. Let me list the stupid things the
characters do: 1. They leave the downed plane to head off on their own
without a clue where they are or where they are headed. When someone
says that a search and rescue will be coming, Neeson's character flatly
denies that they will be able to find them. His remarks are supposed to
indicate the stupidity of the rescuers but only confirms his own. 2.
They leave the plane, which could have easily been converted into a
formidable protection for the group and head out into the open to be
picked off by deranged wolves that think smarter than the humans. 3.
They all seem to have knives and duct tape, why not cut off some
branches from the trees and tape the knives to the ends of them and
then spear the wolves instead of that cockamamy idea of trying to set
off shotgun shells at the end of sticks. 3. In the wild, with predators
lurking, you never walk empty handed. You would make a spear and walk
with that. These fools wander around without so much as a club for
protection. 4. When they finally kill a wolf, Neeson's character tells
them to eat up as that is the last meat they will have. It seems they
cant think well enough to pack up the rest of the meat and carry it
with them! 5. Anyone who would consider a plan of jumping off a cliff
in the hopes of landing in the opposite side trees has got to be
suffering from brain damage. 6. In the end Neeson prepares to square
off against alpha male Wolf and tapes airplane liquor bottles between
his fingers as a sort of mace. The only thing that will do is cut his
own hand to ribbons when the glass shatters in the fight. 7. Neesons'
character has his meltdown moment and rails at God for not helping
him...I couldn't help but smile at what God's reply might have been,
"Have you considered using the brain I gave you?!"

No but he tells God, 'f*@K it. I'll do it myself..." and promptly walks
into the middle of the wolf den. Good job on the DIY Neeson!

8. And of course the finale. What a let down by the director. To get us
all prepared for the final battle and then fade to credits is simply
fraudulent. I understand that filming a battle scene like that would
cost a lot of money, but the movie is so cheaply made to begin with
that you'd think they had enough to film it. This is touted as an
action survival movie not an art house 'life is like that' crap. So
forget the arty ending and give us the beef (no pun intended). And it
does not do to have to wait through 15 mins of end credits to just have
a flash of an exhausted and bloody Neeson and wolf sprawled on the
ground. If this is a set up for a sequel, then that is just plain not
good form.

My suggestion, rent the Edge with Anthony Hopkins for an intelligent
and credible survival tale. 

My final thought, I hope Bear Grylls does a send up of this movie by
doing a show showing all the stupid things these guys did that ensured
none of them survived.
