
There's something about the midnight hour, something special, mystical,
and magical. In the case of this marvelous movie, its impact is fully
realized, as we see our protagonist suddenly realize that he has the
opportunity to face that which he truly admires, treasures, and dreams
about. In the opening scenes, he expresses his desire to settle in the
city of lights, and we know it's not going to be an easy thing to do.
His girlfriend and he are quite different in their appreciation of what
being in Paris means. She understands it's special, maybe from an
aristocrat's point of view. He might be looking at it, as the dream
place for an artist to find aspiration to fulfill his artistic goals.

One night, he wanders into the streets of Paris and finds himself lost,
only to find himself rescue by a party of night socialites who turn out
to be quite famous in some literary circles. Soon, the
screenwriter/aspiring writer has an opportunity to see himself living
one of his dreams as well as slowly come to some surprising epiphanies
as he discovers more and more who his new acquaintances might truly be,
and most important what their dreams really are.

The film is set in several time periods, and Paris glows intensely and
seductively in everyone of those. From its overcast skies and
reflective streets, showing lovely architectural details and its
magnificent landmarks to the superb and lovely recreations of older
time periods, one can't help being seduced, charmed, and inspired to
find a way to show what a special place, and consequently what a truly
magical film this might be.

Performances are outstanding all around, with Cotillard once again
stealing every second she is on the screen. Through her eyes and
carefully delivered lines, we understand what attracts us to this
special time and place. She is a gorgeous and very talented performer,
one who might be truly aware of her standing, yet she doesn't dwell on
it. She attracts many types, but her philosophy is unique, move on,
enjoy, live the moment. In a way, she is like the city that has
inspired Allen, and many others before him. Paris as a place might not
be aware of its magnetism, its beauty, and its power. Cotillard's muse
is the perfect human equivalent, a dazzling and potent woman, who moves
from man to man, place to place, time to time, and who surprises us
with her own wishes near the end of the story.

Wilson inhabits the Allen persona, and he does a very good job, not
creating a tired imitation, an annoying cliché that could have ruined
the perfect balance of sight, sounds, and insightful dialog, keeping
this masterpiece way ahead of the best Allen has offered before. For
those of us who gasped during the fantasy sequences of "The Purple Rose
of Cairo", the marvelous recreations of the stage in "Bullets Over
Broadway", the dissection of relationships in many of his best films,
get ready to see it all finally come together, as he picks from the
best, and adds his personal touch, with many a funny and clever
observation, uttered by Wilson with a honest and complete sense of
wonder. Unlike many of his leading men, Wilson displays an innocence
which allows him and us to see his adventures in a fresh light.

"Midnight in Paris" is a beautiful display of what movie magic can
truly create, a sense of wonder long gone from contemporary cinema;
This is a movie that entertains, teaches, and wears each one of its
elements, like Paris bewitches us with every light, every facade, and
every heartbeat of its music.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's love affair with France, which goes back decades, finds
its finality with "Midnight in Paris," the latest of Allen's Parisian
brochures, which recently opened at the Cannes Film Festival on
Wednesday. The good news is that Allen seems to be paying attention in
a way he hasn't always done in recent films, and has found a way to
channel his often-caustic misanthropy, half-comic fear of death and
anti-American bitterness into agreeable comic whimsy. The nominal point
of "Midnight in Paris" is that we've all got to make the best of life
in our own time while longing for a past that probably never existed.
If anything, Allen seems to be rebuking himself, ever so mildly, for
his compulsive romanticism, his obsession with the past and his
disconnection from contemporary American life. Allen has baked us a
sweet, airy Parisian dessert with just a sense of sentimental substance
in the finish. One of his better films in his latter years.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's latest is beautifully written and a charming story that
belongs in the top ten of his all-time greats. From the opening montage
of lush, picturesque Parisian scenes the film is a love letter to the
city of lights. Owen Wilson is perfectly cast as Gil Pender a Hollywood
writer who has penned his first novel about a man who owns a nostalgia
shop. Throughout his stay in Paris he hearkens back to the iconic
characters who once roamed its winding cobblestone streets.

For everyone who sometimes ponders how life would be in another time,
this film through whimsical storytelling and pure fantasy transports
us. Perhaps that elusive world does not really exist or we are never
truly content in whatever station we reside. Gil is enraptured with
discovering the bistros where Ernest Hemmingway once wrote or the idea
of living in garret with a sky light.

His fiancé played by Rachel McAdams who adroitly depicts a character
both shallow and blasé and content to listen to the pseudo-intellectual
musings of her onetime flame. To discuss the plot much further and
divulge the magic twist would be a shame.

Midnight in Paris is a gourmet meal of delectably charming and playful
scenes. Adrian Brody is riotous as a surreal artist and Kathy Bates
deftly evokes a wise and famous writer. A character in the film remarks
of seeing a movie but, she cannot recall what it was about or who was
in it, not so with Midnight in Paris. It is a sweet, endearing and
thought provoking film that will whisk you away into a sublime magical
world.
<|_=00=_|>
"Do you think it's possible to love two women at the same time?," asks
our protagonist Gil Prender to a tour guide discussed Auguste Rodin's
love for his mistress and his wife. Like that's the first time we've
heard that question in a Woody Allen movie. Infidelity, gorgeous women,
and neuroticism are some of Allen's favorite motifs, so it's really not
too much of a surprise that they all appear in Midnight in Paris.

That said, Allen's rendition of those ideas feels fresh this time.
Midnight in Paris is a sweet, fun romp through the art world of France.
This light comedy may not have some of the heavier messages about
adultery and art that previous Allen films have had, but Midnight in
Paris is, nonetheless, an enjoyable exercise in allusion to the Lost
Generation and artists of the 1920s.

Midnight in Paris begins with the same idea of a man, in this case a
screenwriter named Gil played by Owen Wilson, searching for connection
with the real world. The protagonist is clearly a projection of Allen's
self, but no matter. Gil is engaged to the Inez, played by a blond
Rachel McAdams who coincidentally (or is it?) looks like Scarlet
Johansson from Vicky Cristina Barcelona. Inez bores Gil with her
pretentious friends and spiteful parents, which ultimately causes Gil
to seek inspiration on his own time by drunkenly wandering that streets
of Paris. One night, he is invited into a car that takes him back to
the 1920s where he meets his favorite writers and artists, something
that eventually leads to a breakthrough in his work. A large supporting
cast includes Kathy Bates, Allison Pill, Adrien Brody, Michael Sheen,
and Marion Cotillard.

Allen's conception of Paris is just as romantic as the story itself.
The film's physical look matches some of the complexities of the women
in that it appears to be almost splashed in gold. It is, after all, the
City of Lights. It's a beautiful movie that matches the pretty faces of
its starring women.

Allen's screenplay leaps right off the page thanks to his cast, but
this too is something that isn't unusual for a Woody Allen film. At his
best, Allen picks actors that play their parts with a sense of realism
that, when combined with some elements of the fantastic, charm the
audience. Just about everyone here manages to do just this, with the
exception of Rachel McAdams, who tries her hardest with an
underdeveloped character. Marion Cotillard is the best of the cast (as
per usual) in her role as Picasso's mistress. She's bursting with
sexuality yet she's grounded in her ability to deliver her dialogue
with her natural French accent.

Midnight in Paris is fantastique. In comparison to Woody Allen's
previous tales of lust and spite, his newest film feels like a dessert
rather than a filling entree, yet this is exactly how a good, highbrow
summer movie should be. The cast shines just as bright as the lights at
the top of the Eiffel Tower and Allen proves himself worthy of his
place in society as a master director once again. By no means a
classic, Midnight in Paris is a pretty little diversion, one that is
grounded in a theatrical gimmick that totally works every time. This,
along with The Tree of Life, will be one of a few summer movies that
will dazzle visually (without explosions) and somehow manage not to
insult the viewer's intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! It blends film noir with Stardust Memories, The
Purple Rose of Cairo, and a bit of Annie Hall. The scenes of Paris were
enough to make one fall in love. The music was superb! Having all the
artists and writers show up was the ultimate name dropping contest!
Their caricatures were hysterical! Casting Adrien Brody as Salvatore
Dali was mind blowing, along with the surreal discussion about a rhino. 

I think Owen Wilson is the best Woody Allen by far. He has a kind of
naivete that seems to fit perfectly with who Woody seems to be and the
combination of Owen's good looks with Woody's humor is riveting! 

Of course the "nostalgia" theme and the -I really want to be somewhere
else because it's too boring here- give the story a whole other layer
of meaning. For we artists and writers it's one of the things that
sparks our creativity, so I loved this discussion and the never ending
unraveling the story provokes. While he's entertaining you, getting you
to laugh hysterically about it all, you're actually getting the point
he's trying to make! There is no one who is so brilliant! Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The love between the French and the Americans has always been mixed
with an element of dismissal even contempt but the love is real. Woody
Allen walks that fine line in truly inspired fashion. "Midnight in
Paris" is a delight. This is he first time I actually loved Owen
Wilson. He is terrific as Woody's alter ego. Rachel McAdams superb. Her
mean American girl is hilarious and frighteningly recognizably, so are
Kurt Fuller and Mimi Kennedy as her parents. What a chillingly awful,
normal pair. I loved the moment in which Owen Wilson, in a great close
up, comes to accept what's happening around him. I accepted it too.
Happily. Another stand out moment: the meeting with Salvador Dali,
played brilliantly over the top by Adrien Brody. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite a lot of great lines carrying life's wisdom; Profound reflection
and insight of living the precious present expressed in a light-hearted
touch! If you have your own 'Golden Age' fantasy, you will likely enjoy
it. This movie seems to be relatively more straightforward in
communicating its message than some of Allen's other works, such as
"You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger." As a plus, lovely cinematography
of the city of Paris - Mr. Allen has apparently fallen in love with the
'good old (and charming)' European major cities; e.g., London, Paris,
Barcelona and etc. Very likely, you will leave the movie theater with a
big and warm smile on your face...
<|_=00=_|>
I love Woody Allen, so already I'm biased. But even I will admit that
he's been spotty for the last...my God!...twenty years or so. "Curse Of
The Jade Scorpion" will forever be his lowest moment, and in his later
phase "Match Point" and "Vickie Christina Barcelona" remain the
highlights. Well, we can add another to that list. By no means is this
movie an "Annie Hall" or a "Manhattan", let alone a "Husbands and
Wives". But if you've been bored by what you've been seeing at the
Multiplexes lately, if you think "The Hang-Over 2" sucked and you've
despaired that the romantic comedy is dead...than I'm delighted to tell
you to go see this movie right now. See it on a big screen! It's
gorgeous to look at, fun to watch, romantic, sweet, smart, and
pleasantly old-fashioned. This movie is not a masterpiece, and yet I'm
giving it 10/10 because it was perfect for what it was -- a modest
pleasure that left me in a great mood, and even a little inspired.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen takes Paris and bathes it within its own glory all the
while making one of his most entertaining films in decades. Great
cinematography, classic music, french food, french culture and Allen's
trademark humor are pure magic. You may see some of the familiar
character types from other films, but they only add to the mixture. Odd
man out is Owen Wilson, but somehow he sheds his B-movie past and
encompasses the Woody Allen humor without mimicking Allen. The
ever-evolving plot twists will have you laughing as well as entranced.
This is the first Allen film (in a long time) where he doesn't
pontificate about life and death, but only celebrates the present while
ironically, living in two eras. This is beyond Oscar material.
<|_=00=_|>
"Paris, France is exciting and peaceful." Gertrude Stein

Welcome to the world of Woody Allen as he has always loved it:
nostalgic, romantic, imperfect, and full of hope. Midnight in Paris is
one of his finest treatises on the lure and delusions of the past: Like
Zelig it depicts other times, like Purple Rose of Cairo it uses magic
realism to deal squarely with the present. Allen has another of his
surrogates, this time Gil (Owen Wilson),who virtually experiences the
past (the twenties) while dealing with the troublesome present.

Gil, engaged to marry Inez (Rachel McAdams), is with her and her
parents on business in Paris where he hopes to work on his novel while
he is still a successful Hollywood writer. Although she is a
materialist who would like him to become wealthy to enjoy the life his
parents are used to, he dreams of escaping the hack work of LA and
living in the City of Lights for inspiration, just as his idols
Fitzgerald and Hemingway did in the roaring twenties.

Well, the twenties roar back to him as he experiences their friendship
and the mentoring of Gertrude Stein, among just a few of the many
expatriate luminaries he meets through the magic of nostalgia. Just one
of the Allen signature touches that make him the equal of great
European directors such as Rohmer and Godard is opening the film with
music that reflects the allure of the twenties, the romance of Paris,
and his abiding love for this city: "Si Tu Vois Ma Mere" by Sidney
Bechet combines jazz, the clarinet, the twenties, and Allen with a
romantic nostalgia.

Owen Wilson catches the halting diffidence of the typical Allen persona
without slavishly imitating him. Yet whatever little duplication Wilson
employs endears as he sweetly visits his heroes, falls in love, and
comes to terms with his writer's voice and his mismatched engagement.
But that engagement is the troublesome present; the past offers the
chance to experience history on a human level that only someone who
writes for now and reveres the past can do. 

The magic and the realism, both requiring hard work from the
protagonist, lead to surprising understanding of human nature, the
delusion of nostalgia and Paris, and hope for a present that brings
love and inspiration.

"For all we know, Paris might be the hottest place in the universe."
(Gil)

It's been at least a decade since I have enjoyed an Allen movie this
much.
