
Just the basic story: Scott Adkins awakes in hospital after he dreams
about JCVD and some guys in black uniforms kill his wife and daughter.
He is then approached by some sort of government agent and starts to
search for the killer of his family but it is more difficult than it
seems.

To be completely honest: I don't think I got the story completely. It
includes clones, implanted memories and some twists you wouldn't really
expect from a movie like this. This isn't really like the first
Universal Soldier (funny), this is actually pretty grim and dry and
compared to "Regeneration" it has a way more complex story and clear
lead actor this time: Scott Adkins. The first scene is actually a
first-person one take, like in an ego shooter. It's a gimmick and I'm
not really a fan of this, but it isn't bad at all. It's also raw and
brutal as Scott gets beat up by a crowbar and then his wife is killed
by a head shot with lots of blood splattering around (The death of his
daughter isn't shown). The "Eastern block industrial" feeling is gone,
this is rural America - and it's for the better. Of course there aren't
any big sets like in The Expendables. This time there's also nudity. A
brothel for the Universal Soldiers (where Andrei Arlovski is wrecking
some havoc) and a strip club. All this is told with various
"experimental" techniques. Strange sounds, flashbacks in which, for
example, his daughter appears or his mirror image turns into Van Damme
and so on. It's a little bit TOO ambitious for a movie like this. It
wants to be deep, David Lynch-like, and, while I appreciate the
intention of going away from the simple story of Regeneration the
"arthouse approach" doesn't really fit. Scott Adkins also simply isn't
a good actor to pull that off. And he still lacks the presence of the
old action heroes.

Well, yes, the actors. They are horrible. With the exception of Van
Damme whose performance as the leader of the rogue Universal Soldier is
pretty good and is mysterious presence is definitely something. Dolph
finally channels the Andrew Scott from the first movie again, at least,
a little bit, and he actually has the only funny line in the movie -
"That's the spirit, soldier". What he says when he gets a machete into
his arm. You could pretty much picture that in the first movie. Yes, in
the movie is serious. No funny one-liners. The only funny thing are the
splatter scenes. The movie has lots of it. Adkins loses his fingers,
Arlovski half of his foot. Lots of head shots, even an old grandmother
gets one, the brothel whores are mercilessly slaughtered.

And now to the good things. I mean the really good things. The action
scenes. While, I admit it, the first part of the movie is a little bit
slow and tries to tell the story as mysterious as possible, it is from
time to time pushed by some little action scenes. These are really
well-shot, without fast cuts, quite the opposite, slow-mo is used. For
what they are (small scale scenes in a movie with a low budget) they
are really top-notch. They don't have large set pieces but that is
compensates by the violence. Then there is a car chase which is the
only action scene that I found a little bit average. It's really
nothing special, the one in Regeneration was much better. But of
course, the whole scene leads right into a nice battle between Adkins
and Arlovski where the beat each other with baseball bats, dumbbells
and whatever.

Still, all this doesn't make up for the lengths in the beginning. To be
honest, if the movie would have went on like that I would have been a
little bit disappointed. But then it comes. The showdown is better than
anything seen in THE EXPENDABLES I or II and whatever. Really. I cannot
think of many action movies that have such an awesome final act where
everything just gets bigger and bigger and culminates into two "boss
battles". The whole things begins with a minute-long one take where
Adkins wrecks havoc and kills UniSols left and there without the movie
having a cut.

After the disappointing "Dragon Eyes" John Hyams redeems himself and
showed that the great action from Regeneration wasn't just a lucky
punch. He can also write, although perhaps next time he should get some
help. I hope that in the near future he can at least rise enough to
take charge of a movie with Jason Statham and his typical production
values.

I've decided to give this movie a 8/10 because of the great climax.
<|_=00=_|>
This one is a very good trash movie. And I'm serious.

It has story, a good one if you come to think about it seriously. It
even has nice twist in the end. But it also has so many obviously
stupid things that we heartily laughed about. It is just impossible to
take it seriously.

It has very good combat scenes. Enough of blood and gore for my liking.
But every single thing contradicts laws of nature so bluntly that it is
just impossible to take it seriously.

The struggle between characters portrayed by Van Damme and Adkins is
well shown. And you can even sympathize both to great extent. But every
single bit of lighting and makeup will turn it to comics. And already
sitting with a silly grin at your face you just can not take it
seriously.

This is very good trash movie! And I really mean it! If you like to
watch one do go for this. I haven't seen like this for several years
now.
<|_=00=_|>
OK this is a very odd film. It does not feel right, its hard to explain
but on this film Hyams has nailed it (with help) the
direction/editing/cinematography/music....its all too good for this
type of film. Not long in to the film I was shocked at how good it all
looked from a film structure point, its not a Alien or Godfarther
standard but its far above straight to DVD movies, its far better than
most big screen films. The only thing that reminds you that this is a
small screen film is the cast and their acting ability's (Scott does a
good job where he can), but then again if you rented this film you
would not be expecting any Oscars, but when it comes to the action side
they do a very good job, its very upfront and bloody. The film sits
around the 7/10 area, most of these films would normally hit a 5/10 but
this one picks up points for the effort that has gone in to making
something more than a cheap straight to DVD film. I hope that the same
guys who put this together get a bigger film with a upgrade in actors,
if they can make a film that looks this good with a low budget I would
like to see what happens with a few more million thrown in.
<|_=00=_|>
The new Unisol film is a surprisingly fresh take on an old franchise.
The tone of the movie is completely different from the previous entries
that it's hard to compare to its predecessors.

Our hero, john (Scott Adkins), awakes to find intruders in his home who
kill his wife and daughter. After spending several months in a coma
John awakes with a memory loss, only remembering the man who murdered
his family, Luc Devreux (Van Damme). The storyline then becomes less
comprehensive as we tag along John as he tries to piece everything. The
main problem is that nothing is answered, the back story remains hidden
and the characters motivations are left unexplained. The movie also
suffers from bad pacing, the first half being painstakingly slow with
no action happening for the first half of the movie.

The good news are that the second half features some badass action
sequences and the R rating is used fully, it's a gory movie as it
should be. Even though the frequent use of slo-mo is tiring, it doesn't
ruin the experience. Too bad all of it is packed in the final scenes of
the movie. 

The movie draws inspiration from different places, from video games to
horror movies to Apocalypse Now (you won't miss it), the unique style
sets this movie apart from the others but it doesn't help the thin plot
or anemic characters.

Universal Soldier 4: Day of Reckoning is unique and fresh and I applaud
the director for taking a different approach. Adkins does a great job
and proves his more than a stuntman. JVCD and Lundgren's roles are
smaller than you would expect, but it's a treat to see them on screen
again. The lack of a comprehensive plot and or continuity to other
films of the series is what hinders this movie from getting a higher
rating.

Final score: 6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
In my mind there are only two Universal Soldier movies, and if you
watch Universal Soldier (1992) and Universal Soldier: Regeneration
(2009) you will have a complete, unspoiled Universal Soldier
experience. Give everything else with the UniSol name attached to it a
miss, it just spoils it!

Universal Soldier (1992) is a classic of its time and genre. It was
destroyed with two "unofficial" sequels that I have never seen and
never care to.

Then came the official sequel, Universal Soldier: The Return (1999).
JCVD was back, which gave the movie some cred, but it deviated too far
from what made Universal Soldier (1992) good. "The Return" was didn't
have the same "feel". It was too "shiny", too "clean", just too
"Hollywood".

When I got word of another Universal Soldier sequel I avoided it like
the plague! I wasn't going to fall into temptation, but it was the
reviews here on IMDb that finally turned me. I finally buckled due to
the overwhelming praise of Universal Soldier: Regeneration (2009).

"Regeneration" really is SO good for its budget. It took the UniSol
series from the "classic for its time" bracket and thrust it into
gritty reality. A worthy and brilliant sequel (that thankfully ignores
the events of "The Return" and still doesn't get the praise it
deserves. WATCH THIS FILM!

"Regeneration" leaves room for a direct sequel, which if made in the
same tone would have been brilliant! But "Day of Reckoning" ignores the
lot of it and goes in a completely different direction again! I have no
idea why or what they were thinking after the acclaim of
"Regeneration". Everyone involved should be fired and never be allowed
to work again!

This film does not star JCVD or DL. They are extras at most. This film
follows a new character and his story which intertwines into a re-
imagined UniSol universe almost completely unrelated to anything before
it.

JCVD and DL look extremely old, even more so than in "Regeneration"
where they just got away with it!

This film shouldn't have been made. They had all the ingredients to run
with a better sequel after the events of "Regeneration".

I am in fact a little angry that I have seen "DOR". It has left a foul
taste in my mouth again just like I felt after I watched "The Return".

In a way I hope they still do another one because their track record
suggests their next one will be good again. On the other hand JCVD and
DL are far too old.

It will take several sittings of the original and "Regeneration" to
erase this movie from memory. And just like how I believe there are
only three Star Wars films, only three Indiana Jones films and Joel
Schumacher never made a Batman film - there are only two UniSol film:
the original and "Regeneration". Watch these two films again and again
if you have to, just give this one (and any others) a miss.

Thank me later.

(2 stars for some pretty reasonable and gritty action and fight scenes
for its budget - only good part of the film).
<|_=00=_|>
I REALLY LOVED this movie. The vibe was just so different compared to
most action movies that come out...and it looked 100% theatrical to me.
Looked great in HD too. I can't believe Hyams can churn out these
movies with such small budgets. The slow burn that lead to all the
action scenes was perfect for the tone of the film. Once the action
starts, we are treated to INSANELY VIOLENT and BRUTAL fight pieces
which are masterfully executed. My main flaw was the overuse of slow mo
in the climax tracking shots. It was still bad ass but it would have
packed a bigger punch without it. I knew not to expect a traditional
Unisol movie so that aspect didn't ruin anything for me...and honestly,
I like Hyams trying new things instead of just making the same movie
over and over again like most big Hollywood directors do. He knew he
only had a little money to use and he wanted to create something really
special with it...and I think he succeeded admirably. The first Unisol
will always be my favorite but DOR slightly edges out Regeneration for
me because of the unsettling Horror/Noir atmosphere. Just as how
Regeneration was my favorite action movie of the 2010, I think DOR will
me my favorite of 2012...and both movies came out the same year as an
Expendables movie and destroyed them both. 4.25/5
<|_=00=_|>
'Universal Soldier: Day of reckoning' - I was so exited to watch this
movie because I am a fan of the whole franchise. I am also an Adkins
fan and have watched all the undisputed movies.

I found this movie quite hard to follow...i thought it would be a
typical ass kicking straight forward action flick but I was sadly
mistaken.

The action was gritty and satisfying but I can not say the same for the
actual storyline. Very confused throughout...the story did reveal
itself in the end but that was definitely one aspect I didn't enjoy.

This movie is definitely worth a watch with seemingly invincible
soldiers with superhuman strength, VanDamme, Dolph and Adkins should be
enough to persuade you :) 6/10 and too much flashing!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm just going to say that this movie seriously should come with a
seizure warning because I almost passed out from the flashing at
certain scenes.

DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE IF YOU ARE PRONE TO EPILEPTIC SEIZURES!!!!!! No
joke.

Otherwise it's good to see these guys on the same screen again. The
movie is a little slow in parts but picks up quickly. Story develops
quickly then plateaus a bit then picks up again. 

Nothing that's going to curl your toes.. but a good flick.

Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
I had to write a review since this movie was so bad. First of all, JCVD
and Dolph have a total of 3 minutes of screen time... COMBINED. VD
doesn't speak till the last scene, Dolph has a total of 10 words beside
a pseudo speech. Story... Scott is a created soldier given a memory of
a family which is then killed so that he develops a rage, why? don't
know, who made him, some government wing, why they are against JCVD, no
idea, what does Dolph do, I wish I had an answer, why were JCVD and
Lundgren in my movie? You tell me! This is no way related to the
Universal Soldier series, even the later ones featuring Goldberg and
Kiana Tom were much better. Scott, as the Russian was likable in those
kick boxing movie series (forgetting the name), well he cant act for
sure and he he was just horrible. Just watch the first Universal
Soldier movie and enjoy Dolph going all psycho, avoid this at all cost.
2 stars just because it had some nice martial arts actors, thats all
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Jean-Claude Van Damme, and i like some movies of Dolph
Lundgren , but this one blah practical no history and the clone come on
some wanna be??? Trying to make a cont. on the history?? doesn't feel
like it,lack of passion, feeling to much blood and lights, come on on
the others when they try to control them, there weren't anything like
that what were you thinking epileptic shock? well you got the shock
part right at least, and the scene of the car accident to much for a
scene, the fighting scenes were practically like Van-Damme fighting,
all those moves and, what about the history??? Very disappointed for a
sequel. negative points :(
