
The revenge plot has been done to death. Kidnapping the protagonist's
daughter has been done to death. Everything about this movie has been
done before, and done much, much better. This is just another extortion
movie where the former friend of a former bank robber wants his share
of the heist, and kidnaps the hero's (Nicolas Cage) daughter as ransom.
The thing is, Cage burned the money. So how is he going to pay this
lunatic? Well, he's gotta commit one more heist for it to be all over.
Sound predictable? That's because it is.

Every beat of this movie is predictable. It wouldn't be so bad if they
added some depth to the characters but everything is so
one-dimensional. Will (Nicolas Cage) loves his daughter and used to rob
banks - that's all we get as far as character development. Vincent
(played by Josh Lucas) wants money. They both were involved with a
robbery gone wrong at the start of the film and Will burned the money
before being arrested and jailed for eight years, but Vincent still
wants his share. He waited eight years to exact his revenge. Eight. And
the diabolical plan he came up with during that time is to kidnap
Will's daughter and threaten to kill her if he doesn't get paid. It's
like the writers weren't even trying.

What the writers do is explain EVERYTHING that's happening to the
audience. They spoon-feed everything with the subtlety of a
sledgehammer, and this constitutes about 90% of the dialogue:
Explaining what you are seeing on screen. The other 10% is forced
relationships and throwaway police banter. It's really stupid. Watching
the movie on mute is probably much more entertaining.

Let's talk about the villain for a minute because he's really quite a
character, or caricature rather. He has no personality whatsoever so
they give him all of these weird traits to mask the fact that he's
boring as all f*ck. A metal stick for a leg, long messy hair, a rugged
shady look, a twisted sense of morals, and he's a cab driver. It's like
baby's first psychopath. Now I don't blame Josh Lucas for this at all,
in fact he makes the character watchable, but not even good acting can
save the villain from being a walking, talking cliché. 

The police are just stupid in this. Stupider than usual in fact.
They're not even worth talking about. All you need to know is that you
know what you're getting into with this movie before it even starts and
it gives you absolutely no surprises or suspense. It's a by-the-numbers
action thriller with Nicolas Cage. It has a few funny moments sure,
most are unintentional, but if you're hoping that this would at least
be a fun, over-the-top Nicolas Cage action movie, then I'm afraid
you'll be sorely disappointed. Stolen is overwhelmingly and sometimes
painfully average.
<|_=00=_|>
Y A N C M

Nicolas Cage made some good movies a while ago. Not this one.

End of story.

Long story: It's not all that interesting. The plot is like junk food
-- dulls the mind, weakens the heart -- unsatisfying. The action is
dreary and slow. Even the attempts at slowing down the pace are
annoying. The absurd characterization of an Australian is ridiculous.
The sound track is stolen from "The Saint" and Val Kilmer. The pretense
of a hectic "Fat Tuesday" is idiotic. The visual effects stolen from
"Heat" are disconnected from the action. Each character is a grotesque
cliché. Each plot step is predictable.

Yet Another Nicolas Cage Movie. 

Here's hoping he delivers a couple more good ones eventually.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Cage is one of those A-list classified actors that somehow
manage to churn movies out left and right no matter the quality or
subject matter. His over the top persona is most likely the biggest
reason delivering some memorable characters whether you like him or
not. The trailer for his latest Stolen comes off more like a rehash of
Taken, but with Cage's added unique character delivery and Expendables
2 director Simon West in the mix could it give something a bit more or
will it be another in a long line of low end releases to Cage's career?

Stolen follows a former thief frantically searching for his missing
daughter, who has been kidnapped and locked in the trunk of a taxi,
while trying to avoid FBI agents convinced he is lying and looking to
find the money he stole 8 years prior. While the story seems like Taken
it really isn't. Yeah there are similarities, but really no more than
there is in tons of other action thrillers in this genre. The story
here is more straight-forward and on a smaller scale, but still works
fairly well. Cage delivers a bit more of a relaxed performance, but
still manages to execute some of his over the top performance in there
from time to time. Luckily it's usually when it is needed so doesn't
distract too much from the overall film. The supporting cast is pretty
good featuring Malin Ackerman, Mark Valley, Danny Huston, and Josh
Lucas who seemed to take over with the over the top delivery here.
While a bit silly at times, Lucas character still works decently. What
really make this film work at all are the decent action and the clever
robbery scenarios. It has become pretty rare to deliver something all
that interesting in film bank jobs, but here they did some pretty
creative stuff.

This is a pretty average action thriller, but works well enough to have
some fun. Most likely this only got theatrical release thanks to West's
success on Expendables 2 and Cage's name, because on some levels it
really feels more like a straight to video release. Either way, fans of
Cage will have a good time and most likely everyone else will have
mixed opinions.

http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
<|_=00=_|>
Zero fanfare, barely-there 141 theaters count in the U.S. (a surprise,
considering it's a movie starring Nicolas Cage and directed by Simon
West of CON AIR and THE EXPENDABLES 2 fame), and scathing reviews --
everything about STOLEN spells rotten. Many have even lambasted this as
among the worst Nicolas Cage movie he's ever acted. Personally, I don't
blame them for being so harsh since Nicolas Cage's movies nowadays are
mostly rubbish. But surprisingly, STOLEN isn't as bad as I thought. It
isn't good either, but rather a fairly worthwhile action thriller.

The movie follows Will Montgomery (Nicolas Cage), a master thief who
has been sent to prison for 8 years after being double-crossed by one
of his partners (M.C. Gainey) in a $10 million robbery gone awry. Upon
his release, he plans to leave his criminal past behind and attempts to
rekindle his shaky relationship with his estranged daughter, Alison
(Sami Gayle). However, FBI agents Tim Harlend (Danny Huston) and
Fletcher (Mark Valley) are both convinced that Montgomery must have
stashed the $10 million somewhere before he was arrested. But
Montgomery insists he's already burned all the money before he
surrendered himself, so his prison sentence will be significantly
reduced. Soon, it doesn't take long before Montgomery's past comes back
to haunt him when his former partner, Vincent (Josh Lucas), who is long
thought to be dead, works as a taxi driver and kidnaps Alison. Vincent
has been waiting for 8 years to exact revenge against Montgomery, who
shots his leg during that fateful robbery, and now he wants the missing
$10 million as ransom. Montgomery is given 12 hours to retrieve the
money at all cost, or Vincent will kill Alison. As time running out,
Montgomery has no choice but to go back his old self again and re-teams
with his another partner, the beautiful Riley Jeffers (Malin Akerman)
to pull off a bank heist.

STOLEN plays strictly by-the-numbers, and it's terribly clichéd all
over the place. David Guggenheim's screenplay is full of
implausibilities, and the characters are all caricatures at best. But
the movie's ludicrous tone has somehow plays out fairly good to its
advantage. Thanks to Simon West's energetic direction, the movie zips
along fast enough. Frankly, watching STOLEN is akin to watching a
mindless '90s action movie -- enjoyable as long as you put your logic
aside. The action are quite entertaining , especially given its $35
million low-budget cost (the opening heist scene and the car chase
scene inside the parking lot comes to mind), even though they tend to
get a bit distracted by its fast editing. Mark Isham's score is catchy
and entertaining enough, but its snappy tone that favors over its caper
genre does sounds awkward during its more dramatic moments.

Acting-wise, Nicolas Cage plays the same old character we have seen too
many times before -- twitchy, that is. But at least, it's not as worst
as critics might lead you to believe here. Josh Lucas certainly has a
field day playing an over-the-top, crazy psychopath while both Danny
Huston and Mark Valley make quite a worthwhile comic-relief pair as two
buffoonery FBI agents. Malin Akerman puts up a thankless role here,
which is nothing more than showcasing her beauty and little else.

While STOLEN won't top anyone's list as one of the must-see action
movies of the year, at least it delivers adequate supply of
guilty-pleasure entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is action-packed and of course, there are mucho
take-for-granted flaws throughout the whole movie that usually a quick
tempo thriller could never avoid. but there's one thing we should
admit, nicholas cage did every of his movie 110% with his 110%
over-the-top acting or shall we say, commitment. his endeavor in this
movie is no exception: he never stopped running from the very beginning
to the end; and it's not easy at his age to play such action role, even
all the scenes in his movies could be edited. the investors of his
movies should consider their money never wasted on this actually quite
superb actor. again, i'd like to reiterate, even this is not a great
movie, it's still quite watchable, and you can't treat it as a B movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are wondering, "Why is Nicolas Cage starring in a movie that
only got a token theatrical release before being dumped on DVD?", well,
from what I've heard, Cage's overspending combined with a massive tax
debt has made him take less prestigious projects in order to raise
money. Actually, I had high hopes for this movie, because it was a
production from Millennium Films, a company that often makes high
quality action movies. However, this movie is one of their rare misses.
Technically, the movie is above average for a movie aimed primarily at
the DVD market. However, the basic story has been told so many times
before that there are few surprises this time around. Most likely
you'll be impatient long before the end because at times the movie
seems to be stretching things out. Also, Cage's character never really
becomes sympathetic - you'll never get involved in his plight and be
rooting for him. And this is yet another movie where filmmakers don't
know how heavy gold bars are in real life! Let's hope Cage managed to
pay off his debts with this movie so he can be free to pick more
quality projects.
<|_=00=_|>
In New Orleans, the notorious bank thief and family man Will Montgomery
(Nicolas Cage) steals ten million-dollar with his partners Vincent
(Josh Lucas), Riley Jeffers (Malin Akerman) and Hoyt (M.C. Gainey).
However, he has an argument with Vincent in the runaway and Hoyt leaves
Will behind. He tries to flee but the FBI agent Tim Harlend (Danny
Huston) organizes a manhunt and Will is captured, but he burns the
stolen money to get rid of the evidences against him. 

Eight years later, Will leaves the prison and he goes to the house of
his teenage daughter Alison Loeb (Sami Gayle), who has issues against
him. Alison leaves Will alone in a coffee shop and takes a cab to go to
a session with her shrink. However, a couple of minutes later, Will
receives a phone call from Vincent, who is presumed dead, telling that
he has abducted Alison and will kill her unless he receives the ten
million-dollars of the last robbery. Now Will has twelve hours to find
a way to rescue his daughter from the hands of the psychopath Vincent.

"Stolen" is a predictable, flawed, full of clichés but also
entertaining action movie with Nicolas Cage in the lead role. This is
the type of movie where the viewer can guess what is going to happen on
the next scene but nevertheless is not as bad as I expected. I really
did not understand how the cellular with GPS that was left in the train
to Tallahassee was back again with Will Montgomery and how the handcuff
on his left hand has vanished. Further, how many golden bars have been
easily melted, hardened and carried in a bag? At least, seeing the
gorgeous Swedish actress Malin Akerman makes this forgettable movie
worth. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "O Resgate" ("The Ransom")
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers in here.

Nicolas Cage...check. Job goes bad, one of Cage's family members gets
kidnapped...check. He has to steal something almost impossible to get
them back...check. With the Feds watching following him the whole
time...check. He goes one of his ex partners, who has sworn off crime
for help...check. She's hot...check. She does it anyways...check. Gets
the job done, but leads to a fight at the end...check. Bad guy dies,
family member safe...check. Cop lets Cage walk...check.

Why is this movie not called "Gone in 60 Seconds 2"?

Good movie, but it's already been done...with the same lead actor.

Was this written by the same guy?
<|_=00=_|>
The plot is rather simple and not original, but chases during and
within Mardi Gras festivities in New Orleans are interesting to watch
(here, adding the carnival does make sense, in most other movies it is
just meant to confuse viewers and chasers). However, the "final end"
could have been different, more sophisticated.

Nicholas Cage is good as usual, but the real star (and best villain) of
the movie is John Lucas - vicious inside and outside. Female characters
tend to be sketchy, although actresses do their best.

An OK movie for killing time, but it is neither Heat nor Snatch or
similar. A typical Cage-related action.
<|_=00=_|>
I give it a 7 because Its all so predictable and these plots have been
made earlier. Cage keeps us on the edge and carries every scene on his
shoulders.

Malin Akerman is almost non-existent There is no Love angle only a
father going about to rescue his daughter Like watching Kurt Russel in
Breakdown searching for his wife.

The FBI team is good have made their presence worth it 

Other characters of the movie might well be out of any B movie 

A nice thrill ride if you ignore the predictable turn of events ..

I give it a seven only because Cage make this ordinary bag of movie
watchable
