
Friend of mine referred me to this movie to go see with my girl. I saw
the rating on IMDb and was hesitant. However, he insisted, so I went
for it.

The movie is funny as hell. It may run for two hours but for me and my
girl it passed by quickly; there's always something going on keeping
you interested or making you laugh. 

I don't need to write a detailed review. If you're hesitant, don't
be...it's worth it!

PS I'd really give this movie an 8, but I feel like the current rating
is way too low. 

Another PS: I'm not black!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be put off by the low ratings. So far the movie has only been
rated 6700 times which isn't really enough for it to shadow the
minority ratings. 

I suspect there's been a lot of men who aren't into these types of
movies that have been forced to watch it with their girlfriends and
have then given it low ratings because it definitely leans towards
being more of a soppy romantic comedy than a gritty one.

It's definitely not a 'fairy-tale soppy romantic' movie by any means. I
would class it as having a realistic amount of soppyness which is what
makes it good. 

The main cast are pretty diverse in their personalities so most people
will be able to relate to someone in the movie, but even if you can't
it's got enough comedy/fun in it to keep you entertained.

I think racially this movie is fantastic and it makes a lot of very
positive statements. We have a mostly black cast with a very middle
class Friends(TV series)'ish feel to them with 2 white guys in the
group, 1 of whom has a black girlfriend. 

There's a couple of light racially inspired jokes at the expense of one
of the white guys in the group which further emphasises that race just
isn't and shouldn't be a serious issue in the group.

It's really nice to see a movie like this with a nice intelligent
middle-class group of African Americans. Too many movies focus on the
gangster element of African American culture these days, so I think
this is a really positive and refreshing movie.

I definitely recommend it to everyone except those who are put off by a
bit of soppy romance.
<|_=00=_|>
I am sure that a lot of folks will think that this is a film to plug
Steve Harvey's book, but trust me when I say that the book does not
need plugging since it made the best seller list (just wanted to get
that off my chest). This is one of those films that I am going to have
to watch again because the audience was laughing so loud and long that
I fear I missed some of the jokes. That being said .. Kevin Hart
(Cedric) is a fool (in a good way). He had me (and the rest of the
audience) cracking up. His comic timing and expressions are priceless.
The relationship between Dominic (Michael Ealy) and Lauren (Taraji P
Henson) was probably the most honest (compared to the others). I like
the reference that they made to For Colored Girls (classic). I have
always considered Michael Ealy to be very sexy and he did not
disappoint in this film (Yum). Michael (Terrance Jenkins) was a true
mama's boy almost to the point of being sickening, but Candace (Regina
Hall) did what she had to do to rectify that situation. The longtime
relationship between Jeremy (Jerry Ferrara) and Kristen (Gabrielle
Union) is one that a lot of couples will be able to relate to. Finally,
Zeke (Romany Malco). What can I say, there are a bunch of you out
there and I am glad that Mya (Meagan Good) stuck to her guns. The only
negative thing that I would say about the film is that I am not sure
that Alex (Chris Brown) needed to keep popping in on the scenes. It was
kind of redundant since the film already had a "playa". Wendy Williams
(Gail) and Sherri Shephard (Vicki) had small roles in the film, but it
was good to see the talk show hosts represent. I think that a lot of
people may see this film as a "chick flick", but I like to think of it
as a great date movie. I think that the implied war of the sexes will
appeal to all and if nothing else, Kevin Hart will keep you in
stitches. This film is well worth the price of a ticket. Put down the
book and get out and see this film because this will be the one that
they will be talking about next to the water cooler on Monday. I am
giving this film a green light.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen the previews for this movie & thought it was definitely one
to pick up at Redbox, not pay $10 to see. Boy was I wrong. I walked out
of the pre-screening pleasantly surprised. Not only is it hilarious
from beginning to end, the cast is perfect. Kevin Hart made this movie
what it is, he was great. The pairing of the couples couldn't have been
more believable. It was above and beyond what I expected going into the
theater. Not to mention i've never seen an audience so into a movie,
nobody had a bad thing to say about it. I am so glad I got to see this
early so I can be sure to let everyone know its worth paying to see. I
would probably pay full price to see it again to be honest....DON'T
MISS THIS ONE!! It's clear to me the people who rated it 3 stars
definitely haven't seen this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie not expecting anything great, taking in
consideration its very low IMDb rating. It completely proved me wrong,
and it absolutely made my day. It was funny, charming, and full of
really great moments. I loved the fact that the movie was following
more than one relationship. It has a great storyline. The characters
are great, and all the couples in the movie have great chemistry
between them. Even though Cedric was the funniest character in the
movie, all the others always had something pretty funny to say. I loved
seeing Turtle in something else besides Entourage, he's a really great
actor. The soundtrack is also amazing. I would definitely recommend
this to all my friends.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is much better than it's rating! Obviously it's not jammed
full of amazing special effects and Oscar winning performances but it
doesn't pretend to be either. The film is what it is a light hearted,
feel good, comedy romance. 

Strongly recommend watching if you're feel a little bored or want a
movie to kill time with some great laughs provided by Kevin Hart. 

The story line is a little predictable but no need to worry because the
laughs make up for it. All I can say is just watch the film, you won't
be disappointed, I'm certain you will be pleasantly surprised.

Great film 8/10 will be looking out for part 2 :)
<|_=00=_|>
Typical 'clown' movie.

Guys are players.

Girls are either ho's, a 'shackee', or a "nice" single mom.

Bros play the ho's.

the ho's play the bros, and they all end up happily ever after.

A 2 hour commercial for Steve Harvey.

Save your money and go see Tyler Perry movies instead!!!! Kevin Hart? -
Cool! And for those who say they laughed throughout? - NOT!! And those
reviewers who used the term 'racist' - NOT!! This is just one bad /
silly movie
<|_=00=_|>
There are ups and downs to this flick. The story is interesting and
unique. The cast is beautiful, the emotions are spot-on all through the
film. Another plus is the humor. Every character has a situation that
we can all relate to. A momma's boy, a player, a divorcée... All
characters that we have interacted with at one point.

Kevin Hart does an exceptional job and he stands above the rest of the
cast. The downer is the last quarter of the movie. It gets too sappy
for a dude. The resolutions of the relationships become way too
predictable. I mean, it's predictable down to the actual words spoken
by the couples. 

That aside, this is a movie suitable for a night in with your girl, or
a date. It will set your chic in the mood :-) A better than average
movie, and still worth your money.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this, I have a vague feeling that I'm watching a well-written
infomercial with good acting. It has sweet moments and some good
laughs, but I just can't shake that feeling of watching an infomercial,
especially when a character holds up the book while she's referencing
it. I'm not African-American and I haven't seen the end of it yet, but
I can tell already that I'm just not thrilled with it. There's a lot of
common sense-type ideas in it... and I really can't figure out why
these women are messing around with men they don't really like or
respect in the first place. 

But then again, I'm really not a big fan of romantic comedies anymore,
so maybe I'm a little biased. Plus, this movie was someone else's pick,
not mine. I know that not everybody feels the way I do about this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2009, entertainer, game show host, and radio personality Steve
Harvey released a book called Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man: What
Men Really Think About Love, Relationships, Intimacy, and Commitment,
and after plugging it on The Oprah Winfrey Show, it quickly climbed to
the top of the bestseller's lists and soared in popularity with women
everywhere. This sudden surge in demand for a book "exposing" men for
what they really are led Harvey to create a follow-up novel called
Straight Talk, No Chaser: How to Find, Keep, and Understand a Man, but
considering how this film became a surprising box office success, it
wouldn't surprise me if we'll be talking about that film in a matter of
time.

In my above sentence, I put the word "exposing" in quotations because I
am unable to fathom why Harvey's self-help book has gained so much
notoriety amongst single women. It seems everything that is discussed
in the film about men wanting sex, wanting a looser relationship, and
wanting less constraints in a commitment is something most people knew
before this book surfaced. Did someone just need to print them and
spell them out for people? Did it really need to ostracize men as the
soul source of many relationship problems, and continue to feed the
idea that all men are cut from the same cloth? I'm not sure, but as a
film motivated to take the idea of a self-help book and incorporate its
ideology into a film counterpart, it's labored and shockingly
uninteresting for the most part.

The film follows the lives of several couples, whose relationships are
failing because, of course, it's the males efforts or lack thereof that
are soiling the chemistry and the recipe for success. We have Dominic
(Michael Ealy) a capable, but unmotivated soul; a trait that his new
business executive girlfriend, Lauren (Taraji P. Henson) can definitely
change. Michael (Terrence J), a man so attached to his mother that the
girlfriend becomes the second priority. His high school crush, Candace
(Regina Hall), a single mom as well, whom he recently reconnects with,
feels that in order to make a relationship work, she'll need to fix
this. Jeremy (Jerry Ferrara) is dating Kristen (Gabrielle Union), who
is upset because he is reluctant to pop the question and is very
fearful of committing to anything. And who could forget Zeke's (Romany
Malco) dilemma? His girlfriend Mya (Meagan Good) puts him on a love
lockdown, meaning that since he is known as a player and a complete and
total ladies man, that he will be prohibited from sex until ninety days
of knowing each other.

It's also an obligation that these pals have a wise-ass best friend
who, in this case, is Kevin Hart's Cedric, recently divorced, and
frequents many strip clubs. He's definitely the most interesting
character here, but look at his competition. Uninteresting males
accompanied by equally uninteresting females in a contrived plot
serving as extended product placement for a surprise bestseller. Put
that on the back of the DVD.

So, it takes the men a little while to piece together why their
girlfriends have become vindictive and overcompensating, and soon they
realize they have unwillingly become victims to their new
passing-phase, which is the self-help novel. They decide to read it and
use Harvey's ideology against the women as a defense tactic for
themselves. Color me not surprised, but heartbroken. Two wrongs don't
make a right, and this is where contrivance triumphs logic, reason, and
humanity.

Think Like a Man is also plagued with the most hopelessly unbelievable
setup of the year, so far. Even more asinine than our sixteenth
president being a cold blooded vampire hunter. As we watch this film,
we see women who appear to be compassionate, understanding, and, for
the most part, good-natured. One impossibly tries to grasp the idea
that these women would become gridlocked to the rules of the genius of
Steve Harvey that they'd begin to live their life by his advice and
tips. One finds it almost shiveringly absurd that an independent,
free-thinking individual would not realize that these ideas of men
being motivated by sex and ego, along with requesting the loosest
possible rules by women, have existed for the past hundred years and
will probably lurk around for another hundred years. I hate to say
this, but the film stereotypes men into careless, unfeeling slobs and
doesn't leave much redemption for the women. C'mon, this is sitcom
stuff.

Think Like a Man was written by Keith Merryman and David A. Newman, who
are responsible for penning last year's Friends With Benefits, a comedy
I've grown to think less of over time. It was essentially a romantic
comedy playing dress-up, acting like it wasn't part of the cliché
crowd, but when the layers of dress-clothes came off one by one, by the
third act, we saw what was coming and we became disappointed and
slightly cheated. Think Like a Man is a little different. It shows up
with a questionably quirky premise, offers the disheartening thoughts
that women can and will be manipulated by loose-lipped trite composed
into a novel, men will continue to accept and receive most blame for
failing relationships, and occasionally, we'll be poked in the gut with
a zinger by comedian Kevin Hart. To me, it sounds like an overlong date
night from hell.

Starring: Michael Ealy, Jerry Ferrara, Meagan Good, Regina Hall, Kevin
Hart, Terrence J, Taraji P. Henson, Romany Malco, Gabrielle Union, and
Steve Harvey. Directed by: Tim Story.
