
Yes, it's a "Christian movie"...and yes, there's a "happy ending" and
yes, there's a "message". So what?

In the 40 or so years I have been a regular movie goer, I've seen
pretty much everything one can put into a film, from explosions to
nudity to every possible combination of four letter words. And I am
happy to say we didn't get any of it in this movie. So, if you yearn
for a Hollywood blockbuster....pass on this one.

No, I'm no Pollyanna. I like some action and adventure. But I've gotten
to where a movie with "less" is better to me in many ways. Yes, in full
disclosure, I am proud to say I am a Christian. A Christian dad, too.
I'm happy to report that this movie is what every father should see, be
they "in the Faith" or not. It's nice to see a movie where there's a
strong message of family unity. Even Disney movies have taken to trying
to tell us that your average family is a broken one. That may be
factual, but why can't we have some entertainment that focuses on
people trying to be strong fathers? And that leads to strong mothers,
and then stronger children. And in the end, a stronger community.

There's just enough humor to keep the movie moving along. It's not a
short film by any means, so you do get your ticket price in viewing.
There were a few scenes that might cause a jump or two, but they are
part of setting the story. The movie is a nice surprise in a season of
movies that will probably be forgotten a few weeks after viewing. 

If you have a hard time hearing a lot about GOD and such, pass on this
at the local Googleplex and wander into another film. I hope it makes
you happy. But, I would gently suggest you try this movie out. Be you a
man (or woman) of Faith or not. You just might be surprised. And, you
just might wish to spend a little more time with your family.
<|_=00=_|>
Reality TV is not really real. I mean, I have no friends who've been
stranded on an island or locked in a house (nor, as far as I know, has
that happened to people who don't like me). In contrast, the movie,
Courageous, truly reveals the reality of life. This highly entertaining
film is about the struggles of fatherhood. Which of us guys hasn't
struggled with the boundaries between work and home? 

The story centers on a group of law enforcement officers and is filled
with action, outstanding humor and at times, some tough emotional
moments. At the show I attended, everyone cried. They cried at some
tragic moments and at some moments of great relief. At my side was a
good buddy who is a successful business pro and strong family man. He &
I both walked away with some deeper awareness of how we could be better
fathers to our kids and to our brides.

So there are also some distinct learning moments that makes this film
much more than just an escape from reality. How often do you have an
opportunity to take someone to a movie that has trailing impact on your
life? I'll suggest you get some Dads together to watch Courageous and
sit down for a meal afterward to talk about what it showed you were
doing well, or right - and what you could be working on to better build
into your family and their future. Powerfully-told story with an
outstanding cast.
<|_=00=_|>
'Courageous' is in the top 10 of my favorite faith-based movies. It
really is a tremendous uplifting film that leaves you in tears from the
very beginning to the very end. And it's all attributed to God. Kudos
to Alex Kendrick for being in the film and giving a terrific
performance! I give Courageous a 10 out of 10 My top 10 faith-based
movies of all time are: 1) Ben-Hur; 2) Suing the Devil; 3) Soul Surfer;
4) Facing the Giants; 5) Chariots of Fire; 6) End of the Spear; 7) The
Climb; 8) Gospel of John; 9) Time Changer; 10) Courageous You're
missing out if you haven't seen these films!

God is working through these films.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a preview expecting a good movie with a great message.
Courageous turned out to be a great movie with a great message. My
emotions ran from exhilaration to tears as the movie went from police
action sequences (that were very well done) to scenes that brought out
tears.....and I'm not usually a crier. Lots of great acting. Bad buys
were very bad, good guys were flawed. I would definitely recommend
this. The audience I was with loved it. Both men and women. Not a chick
flick but any lady that does not want her man to be "Courageous" need
not see this. This movie is about being a man, a godly man, father, and
husband. It was worth the money which is hard to say about a lot of
what comes out these days.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was excellent and far surpassed my expectations. There is a
definite message to it but it does not feel like a lecture. There is
lots of action and lots of emotion. Everyone in the theater was both
laughing and crying throughout the movie. The movie was well written
and well acted. The movie addressed difficult relevant social issues
without being judgmental. The role of fathers in today's society and
how many fathers do not live up to their responsibilities was the main
theme of the movie. Although this is a Christian movie there is lots of
action and does not come across as preachy. Recommend seeing it
regardless of your faith and beliefs in God.
<|_=00=_|>
"Courageous" is largely about four deputies in a large sheriff's
department in a mixed suburban and metropolitan area. It details some
of the dangers, temptations and excitement inherent in their job.
However, even more so it shows us how they interact with each other and
their families, especially how they deal with tragedy and learn from
it.

The film does have some action scenes involving gang violence, arrests
and shootouts. As such it is appropriately rated at PG-13 and I would
not have brought my 7 year old daughter to it, but think it would be
okay for most teenagers. The action scenes are not the bulk of the
movie and happen early on to introduce the characters and then more
toward the end, by which time I was at the edge of my seat to see who
would live or die.

However, as I alluded to before, the action scenes are not the bulk of
the movie and take a back seat often to the character interactions. The
acting is generally good and the characters believable, with some only
slightly over the top humor at times. The humor actually is used nicely
to lighten things up a bit as some of the characters are forced to deal
with a tragedy in their family.

The storyline is relatively linear, but not totally predictable as the
actions of some characters came as quite a surprise to me. As part of
this the story was made more believable by some revelations mid-way
through the movie about some of the characters that showed their less
than perfect lives and values.

I often do not see movies like this, since I am a somewhat typical man
who prefers big blockbuster SF or other action oriented films. However,
I went to see this movie at my local multiplex yesterday on a date with
my wife and found myself really enjoying the movie. The people
attending were a mix of adults and teenagers, with about an equal mix
of men and women. I met a couple of people I knew there and they seemed
to have enjoyed the film.

By the end of the movie I had cheered on the heroes, laughed at the
humor, enjoyed the action scenes and even gotten somewhat teary eyed at
parts (during which my wife did some solid crying). Overall I would say
that this film was well done, with an engaging story, characters you
could believe in and with a storyline that really makes you think hard
even when it is over. I had fun with the movie, but also find it
challenging as perhaps you will also if you choose to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is quite simply a superb movie about faith, love, family and what
is really important in life. A must for all fathers and would be
fathers. The movie weaves real life adventure and problems into a
compelling police-based story and delivers solutions to those problems
that can be used in our lives. Sure, some of the jokes are a little
corny, but they are all in good taste - a rare exception to Hollywood's
sex, sex and more sex mentality. The acting is really pretty good -
there's no Brad Pitt here, but there is plenty of heart and soul from
the entire cast. Hard to believe a movie with this much drama, acting
and pathos was created with only a one million dollar budget! It is not
only entertaining and funny but didactic as well. Don't miss this one -
do it for yourself - do it for God!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about Courageous, I was intrigued, not because I'm a
Christian, but because as a member of a law enforcement family, I can
relate to the plot. I wasn't disappointed. The film tells the story of
five men and their families, and their decision to step up and face
their responsibilities...no matter how hard they may be. Most of them
were 'good enough' fathers before, but good enough isn't enough for a
man of courage. 

Courageous seemed less preachy to me than Fireproof was before it. Most
of the acting was much better than I expected (Ken Bevel, in
particular, really stepped it up this time). The film was very gritty,
very true to life. There were times when I felt like I was watching my
family in days past on the screen. Nothing about the reality of job or
family was sugarcoated. 

My main complaint would be with the plot structure; the story didn't
have a clearly defined beginning, middle, and end. There were enough
subplots, I thought, to fill two movies, though they all tied together
nicely in the end. 

Even my sister (who is not a Christian) agreed that she liked it. In
the end, I walked away inspired and uplifted, not just by the film's
message, but by it's presentation. Fireproof may have been a film I
liked and walked away from, but Courageous is definitely one I'll be
buying for my DVD collection. As of this film, I am a definite fan of
the Kendrick brother's films, and I can't wait for more.
<|_=00=_|>
What a great movie. It is entertaining, exciting, draws you in an keeps
you, stirs your emotions, and leaves a positive message. Most other
Hollywood movies are shallow and leave you exhausted and wanting for
more substance. My time and money is too valuable to just be "amused."
It was fun seeing so many people that I have not connected to in a long
time. I would go to more movies, but the are very few that have any
substance. I hope people can spread the word about this movie. I think
our society could turn around if dads took a greater role in the lives
of their children. It is not hard, it takes courage to go against the
modern culture of "if it feels good, do it" and chasing after the
trappings of success, like money and possessions.
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen the trailers and heard all the hype, but after seeing the
advanced screening last night, I was still touched by the message of
the movie. This movie is a must see for any father, and it is the best
Sherwood movie yet. It's a wake up call to our "progressive" society
that wrongly (research is proving) minimizes the role that dads play in
the lives of our children. At the same time they highlighted and
honored the men in our society who put their lives on the line each day
to protect us. That message is wrapped up in an entertaining movie
where you will laugh & cry. I was in tears during scene one and in
several others I nearly fell out of my seat laughing. But as they said
in the movie, some will hear the message and scoff, some will act on it
then fall, and some will make a real and lasting change and in doing
so, they will change the lives of the loved ones around him.
