
Like most movies under the Ferrell/McKay brand, this one is immature,
dumb, and worst of all boring. I saw it last night in Union Square in
NYC, and even the usually forgiving audience there was silent through
most of the movie. With the rare exception of a couple well-placed
scatological jokes, there really isn't much to write home about. The
archetypes from the famous teenage comedies are all there, but the film
seem to borrow especially heavily from Superbad. It's shot in a
Cloverfield-meets-road trip movie style, with the two main characters
stuck in a Jonah Hill / Michael Cera roles, which is strange because
there isn't one name actor in the bunch. It's surprising that they're
pushing this for wide release, as the $2 million budget seems better
suited for art houses. In all honesty, you could do a lot worse than
this movie. But with 1.5 hours you could also do a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review, I've grown a habit out of checking the
ratings/comments on IMDb after every movie I watch...I'm familiar with
the site enough to know that some films are unfairly rated, this one
takes the cake.

Reading some of the reviews on this makes me wonder if they had even
seen a preview of the movie before they watched it. I knew beforehand
this was going to be a goofy movie, that's why I wanted to see it. The
actors played their roles well, the supporting character 'Zach' had me
laughing constantly, and overall I was impressed with how real it felt.
It really brought me back to a time when I didn't care about much
besides getting high, getting laid and being with friends. The only
part about the movie that was off was when they decided to hire a porn
star to sleep with 'Matt'. Other than that, the story was fairly
believable.

I don't think I really need to go into it more than that, I can't
imagine someone seeing the previews to this and expecting something
other than what it is. This one is worth the watch in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone keeps trying to compare this film to the Judd Apatow-era teen
comedies, or the "American Pie" franchise. Thus, they are going into
this with the wrong set of expectations. This isn't *that* kind of
comedy. It has a lot more heart,for one thing, and it plays by a
different set of rules. Apatow & Co., and "American Pie" come from the
perspective of my generation (Gen X) projected on the current
generation (Gen Y? The Millenials? Whatever we're calling them). This
film comes more from the sensibilities of the current generation:
sharing *everything* online, no such thing as TMI, no sense of privacy.

I tried to consider comparisons to other films. It reminded me a
little, in spirit, of the recent little sleeper "Bart Got A Room." I
also tried to approach it from the perspective of "'Porkys' made by
kids who weren't born when the original was made." All of those fell
short. Ultimately, it's its own film. Just like the kids it's about, it
has a different set of boundaries and priorities; but underneath, the
humanity is the same.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is an insult to movie making. Reality TV no, pretend reality
TV, it tries to be. Called a mockumentary, it is only a mocking
travesty of a film.

Who wants to see a bunch of adolescents filming themselves clowning
around? It's not funny, it's not dramatic, it's not horrific, it's not
romantic, it's not informative. I've seen home movies of better
quality.

Even the photography is poor.

It is totally pointless. See it if you don't care how you waste time or
you're drunk, drugged on prescription or hard drugs or high from
something.

The dialogue is appalling. If this is reality, let me out.
<|_=00=_|>
The Virginity Hit plays like it's real when it's really 100% a work of
fiction. It's supposed to play like a home movie made by teenagers
trying to get their best friend to have sex for the first time. The
film was one of the very underrated comedies of 2010 while the trailer
was released very mainstream. I saw the trailer on Youtube and was
rather curious how the film would turn out. I never saw it in my local
theaters listing.

It wasn't until I went on Facebook, and saw a friend of mine went to a
Midnight showing downtown to go see it and after a quick Google search
I was able to find out it was released very limited. The film is better
than a movie like Grown Ups, but it still uses the tiresome, drab
virgin formula. I don't know what it is, but for some reason, comedies
that come out now are all about someone trying to lose his virginity.

Even though most things now aren't the freshest meat on the market,
they do have some fun moments in them. The Virginity Hit is about
teenagers Matt, Zack, Jacob, and Justin. All the friends take a hit off
a bong when they lose their virginity, and Matt is the only one of the
four that hasn't had sex yet. Zack, Jacob, and Justin go through the
trouble to film Matt's adventure with trying to get lucky with his
girlfriend Nicole.

The jokes are hit or miss, very few scenes are memorable, but The
Virginity Hit is a good sport and does squeeze in some laughs here and
there. Matt Bennett (Matt) is part of Nickelodeon's ho-hum series
Victorious, and he's the one character in the film I really found
myself liking from beginning to end.

The Virginity Hit doesn't score big, but it has about the same level of
humor as The Other Guys which was also produced by Adam McKay and Will
Ferrell. While neither McKay or Ferrell appear in the film, good or
bad, the movie has a bit of the Old School movie feeling, but it still
doesn't match the humor in that film. But it's still a nice late night
comedy that isn't extremely awful.

I'll put it this way, I wish it would've had a wider release.

Starring: Matt Bennett, Zack Pearlman, Jacob Davich, and Justin Kline.
Directed by: Huck Botko and Andrew Gurland.
<|_=00=_|>
I tried to find interest in this movie but this is the most boring,
idiotic and uninteresting movie i ever watched.

I didn't got what they are trying to do, it was so disturbing and
finally after 20-30 minutes i turned it off.

All character in this movie were okay they acted well, Nicole was
pretty and matt's look was innocent but the story was so awful and
tooooooo slow. thats why i recommend people to skip this movie and
don't waste you time as its precious.

If this movie is the last choice still don't watch it instead of
watching this movie hangout with friends.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say, I was really into The Virginity Hit after about the first
30 minutes. The beginning of this coming-of-age story was a little
shaky (being filmed by an amateur with a hand-held camera) but
eventually settled into a funny, "I can't believe that just happened"
romp through the landscape of a young boy becoming a man. Matt Bennett
was by far the best actor of the bunch portraying his character in a
sensitive and realistic manner. Nicole Weaver and Krysta Rodriguez were
very believable and likable as well. The friendship of the four male
leads felt true. By the end of the movie I was feeling like I wanted to
see more of the friendship. What now for the four, I wondered? I think
the movie is very entertaining and encourage others to give it a
chance!
<|_=00=_|>
The teenage son of a wealthy New Orleans couple endeavors to lose his
virginity. This young man is Matt Bennett (as Matt), the last of his
group of friends to get lucky. Offering the most help in his quest for
sex is Matt's brother Zack Pearlman (as Zack). At one point, Matt
receives a pair of his favorite pornographic star's panties for a
birthday present. She also appears in the flesh. But, don't get your
hopes or anything else up for this limp, sexless story. It could best
be described as a home movie. If you are on the screen, or know one of
the performers, it might be nice to have a copy. Otherwise, it's is a
waste of time. By the way, "The Virginity Hit" title refers to the
friends' pact to only smoke weed after one of them loses his virginity
- these guys are clearly not thinking ahead.

* The Virginity Hit (9/10/10) Andrew Gurland, Huck Botko ~ Matt
Bennett, Zach Pearlman, Jacob Davich, Justin Kline
<|_=00=_|>
After making a pact to lose his virginity Matt sets up a motel room and
everything is ready. Zack is there to film the whole thing, then
something goes wrong. This is a "mock-umentery", which uses a lot of
"youtube" videos to tell some of the story. This is a totally made up
movie but shot like a documentary to get the right feel they want.
There was a definite "American Pie" & "Superbad" feel in some of the
jokes and the way the characters act, but it's missing a quality these
two had...humor. Some parts are really funny, but there are also
extremely depressing things thrown in right as the movie gets rolling
which grinds it to a halt and takes a while to feel like laughing
again. It's not terrible but I was expecting something laugh-out-loud
funny and this was not it. I think that some of the problem is that I
may have outgrown this type of movie (20-somethings looking to lose
their virginity), or it could just be that this one isn't funny. You be
the judge. I give it a C-.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I enjoy watching dumb comedies, but this one wasn't enjoyable
at all. Just immature and boring for the most part, and there wasn't
even a single funny moment in it. Now I ain't one of those types that
judges movies on it's morals or anything like that, especially when it
comes to comedies. But this movie just constantly gives off one
negative message after another without it even being funny. Now the
trailer to this movie even looked crappy, but the movie itself is even
worse and has some of the most annoying characters. Especially the fat
ginger kid, who is like the ultimate cock block and was irritating to
just look at and is just annoying watching the stuff he does on screen
rather than it being funny. I have no idea how anyone could find this
movie to be hilarious, cause it really isn't. It isn't a uber terrible
movie, but there really isn't anything positive to say about it either.

3.8/10
