
The Music Never Stopped is a beautiful film based on a true story about
the relationship between father and son, and between music and the
brain. J.K. Simmons and Lou Taylor Pucci deliver incredible
performances as estranged father and son, Henry and Gabriel. (Slight
spoilers follow, but all information can be found within the first 20
minutes or so of the film.) The two both have a great love for music,
but their relationship falls apart as Gabriel gets wrapped up in the
hippie culture of the 60's and the Grateful Dead. When Gabriel gets a
brain tumor as an adult, music therapy is used to improve his memory,
which has been destroyed in the removal of the tumor.

This movie has a great soundtrack, full of the classic rock music of
the late 60's. This is certainly a music-lovers film! If your favorite
song takes you back to the moment you heard it, this is a film for you!
If music touches your soul, this is a must see!

If you don't love the music of the late 60's, you will still find this
film a moving piece of art. The relationships between each character
are authentic and personal. It is an absolute must see! *Reviewed from
Sundance screening*
<|_=00=_|>
It's 1987, and when a long-absent son turns up with a brain tumor that
robs him of immediate memory, his father (JK Simmons) struggles to deal
with the past through the eyes of a son who is frozen in memories. 

OK, Dead fans know the title; if you're of a generation that listened
to vinyl, here's your homage to the power of records and the 60s. 

Small budget written all over this, that is all heart and talented
talent that has talent. Did I mention talent? Having seen it at
Sundance Chicago, the director explained that he'd been studying
neurological science material and THAT is reflected in how uncommonly
well the young actor, Gabe, nails his role as a person whose brain
injury sometimes clicks on... and off. Director spoke about the editing
down of the tale, and I think we'd really like to see it expanded back
to a longer film; there's a few lessons here worthy of more screen
time.

There's a jaw-dropping "how'd they do that?" in here worthy of cheers
and worth the ticket price. Hope they "expand" that for the DVD!!! 

This is a great little film without special effects but packed with the
true mastery of a small story told very, emotionally, well. Familiar
faces deliver for all they're worth and well-done filmmakers techniques
bless MUSIC with obvious "extra efforts" that put all of the money up
on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea is hope. The year is 1986 and Gabe, a mid 30's former hippe
has just been located after 20 years on the road. His parents are
typical; his father was a war veteran who thinks that nothing he did
was ever wrong and his mother just wished she knew the right words to
say.

Through music the characters learn what is important; the moments to
remember, the moments to change, the moments that will scuplt their
souls.

I cannot express enough how uplifting this movie was. Anyone who is a
fan of music and anyone who just needs a bright spot in their day needs
to see this.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Sacks, M.D. is a physician and professor of neurology and
psychiatry at the Columbia University Medical Center. In 2007, he was
named the first Columbia University Artist, in recognition of his
contributions to the arts. THE MUSIC NEVER STOPPED is an adaptation (by
Gwyn Lurie and Gary Marks) of "The Last Hippie", a short story/essay
from Sacks' "The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat", a collection of
case history stories. Dr. Sacks is a neurologist who has spent his
career diagnosing, evaluating, and treating a variety of neurological
disorders (and the oftentimes the profound personality shifts that
resulted in brain injury or trauma). This information provides a bit of
reality ground to the film and makes it all the more important to see
and respect. As directed by Jim Kohlberg, this film is a quiet,
reverent, at times disturbing exploration of the many aspects of brain
function and malfunction and an example of adaptation to these
challenges. 

Gabriel Sawyer (Lou Taylor Pucci) was a bright youngster in the 1070s
when the Vietnam war was altering the nation's perception of right and
wrong as expressed in the music of Bob Dylan, the Grateful Dead, Cream,
the Beatles, etc. Longing to be a professional musician he foregoes his
parent's wishes that he attend college and with regret leaves his
girlfriend Tamara (Tammy Blanchard) and takes off for New York's
Greenwich Village. Fast forward to 1986 and Gabriel is hospitalized for
an enormous brain tumor, surgically removed, but leaving Gabriel
without the ability to remember. At this point Gabriel's parents are
located and his father Henry (J.K. Simmons) and mother Helen (Cara
Seymour) visit him in the hospital, longing to reconnect with the son
that has been absent for fifteen years. The lack of memory emphasizes
the schism between Henry and Gabriel and Henry's depressed state
results in his being placed on sick leave from his successful job to
deal with the trauma of his family. Music having been so important to
Gabriel as young man introduces the music therapist Dianne Daley (Julia
Ormond) who meticulously follows the cues form Gabriel's attention span
and is able to open the doorway to his memory loss through his love of
the music of his time. Henry latches on to this and decides the only
way he will be able to rebuild the broken fence of his relationship to
Gabriel will be through music and together the two find connection
despite the neurological blockades. 

The cast is exemplary: J.K. Simmons is splendid as the father, Cara
Seymour makes the mother wholly credible, Julia Ormond gives a
selfless, fine performance, and Lou Taylor Pucci brings life to the
long injured Gabriel. The music is by the recordings of the period with
special music supplied by Paul Cantelon. Stephen Kazmierski's camera
work allows almost unbearably touching close-ups of each of the actors
that open the story for us. This is a film based on a true case
history, but this is also a story that is immensely touching and
uplifting simply from the way it has been written, directed and acted. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
"(Rhythm) is there in the cycles of the seasons, in the migrations of
the birds and animals, in the fruiting and withering of plants, and in
the birth, maturation and death of ourselves," -Mickey Hart (Grateful
Dead) 

What is it about music that resonates so much with people? Is it
chemical? A part of the brain that responds to the frequencies and
rhythm of certain sounds played in a progression? Or, is it just the
fact that it makes one "feel" something? Music, like any other form of
art brings out a "feeling" in the one experiencing it. Those feelings
will be different for everyone and some will be permanently effected by
them. Music can do many things. It can heal, damage, make you dance,
give you a headache and even make you "high". According to many music
therapists, it can also help recall memories. "The Music Never Stopped"
explores this phenomenon beautifully and is a testament to our souls
connection with our music. Set in the 80's with flashbacks to the 60's
and 70's "The Music Never Stopped" has some of the best music from the
bands of that era. The film runs the gamete of emotions and has some
powerful performances from the actors and classic bands such as The
Grateful Dead, Bob Dylan, and The Beatles.

Gabriel, a 30 something man with a brain tumor is unable to form new
memories. He can remember his life growing up, playing music and
following his favorite bands around the country, but he can't remember
what his nurse just said to him 5 minutes ago. Lou Tayler Pucci plays
the down to earth "hippie" Gabriel graciously and I was very impressed
with his performance. He was subtle but beautifully represented those
of us obsessed with music and it's meanings. I felt a real connection
with Gabriel and his relationship with his father Henry, played
impeccably by J.K. Simmons. They have such an interesting and
ever-changing dynamic, it was a pleasure to watch it all unfold. Henry
is devastated by the diagnosis Gabriel has received and feels helpless.
That is until he see's Gabriel's eyes light up at the sound of a
familiar piece of music. He realizes that through music he can connect
once again with his son and hopefully repair their broken relationship.

Based on the case study "The Last Hippie" by Dr. Oliver Sacks, "The
Music Never Stopped" is a wonderful story and I highly recommend it. It
pulls on the heart strings of young and old alike bringing them
together with the power of great music. With a PG rating, "The Music
Never Stopped" doesn't feel like an after school special on father and
son relationships. It's obvious that the lesson goes much deeper than
that. The film is about connecting to each other through music and
taking the time to understand each other through that medium. The
father/son dynamic is the ideal setting to get this point across and
there are some very dramatic scenes that may bring a tear to your eye.
It sure did for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie last night at the Foster Theater inside of the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum...

J.K. steals the movie in a dark-horse Oscar performance - but there is
absolutely nothing wrong with the rest of the cast. (some production
$$$ lacking, i.e. perhaps the worst fake beard ever) The STAR of this
movie was *music* - not the soundtrack (although Deadheads will be
thrilled), but the emotions and memories that music engenders. The way
a song can change your mood, serve as a bridge to your memories. The
movie has back-beats about father & son, husband & wife, a mother
fretting over her son, Korean vs. Vietnam Wars, even lost love - but
the hook is *music*...

*that* song you heard when you met your best girl, *that* song playing
when you first had sex, when *music* meant something to you on an
emotional and visceral level.

The movie harmonizes a teenager of the early 1950s as the father of a
teenager of the late 1960s, showing how their mutual love of *music*
manages to bring them back together across the generational gap - and
the tumor-induced memory gaps of the son.

If you've ever heard your parents say "turn that crap down", if you've
ever said that to your own kid - this movie is for you. You will laugh,
you will cry. You will leave the theater wanting to listen to some of
your parents' music, and being a little more tolerant of that noise
your kid is listening to...
<|_=00=_|>
I was a child of the 60s, grew up in the 70s, made most of my life's
mistakes in the 80s, but also learned an awful lot about life those
three decades. That time period made me who I am today. I don't take
much for granted. I played a LOT outside as a child, my mind was not
desensitized by video games. My growing years were filled with music
about the reason for war and the wrongs of war. Popular songs about
love were poetic, meanings often hidden, and not in your face
expletives.

Having said all that, this movie reached me deep inside. Music was
always a part of my life... from day one. My father liked Glenn Miller
and my mother loved Elvis. To this day I love that music too, as well
as my own preferences with which I grew up. Despite my father never
liking the Beatles, they are my favorite band of all time to this day.
I think he objected to their hair. My father had a 30 year career in
the U.S. Army. He served at the end of WWII, the Korean conflict and
Vietnam. My love of the anti-war songs were not in rebellion to what he
was doing, but instead reassured everyone that we found our American
soldiers more valuable than whatever it was we were fighting for in
Vietnam. Now my stepson is at the end of his tour of Afghanistan. I
love him dearly, and support what he does and support our troops
mission, but they need to come home now. What songs today speak of our
missions in Afghanistan, Iraq and the Libyan conflict? It's just not
the same.

In the 70s, besides never setting the Beatles aside, I loved CSN, CCR,
Joni Mitchell and most of the artists who took part in Woodstock back
in 1969, as well as all the great bands and singer/songwriters that
followed. Songs of peace, love and understanding.

I became a DJ at age 16 and after disco unfortunately changed
everything and college was over, I worked a couple of years as a roadie
and eventually became a musician as well.

I put my guitar down around 1990 and didn't pick it up again in
seriousness until 2007. That period includes probably the darkest
period in my life. I will never set music aside again.

Should I, God forbid, suffer the plight of the main character in this
movie, my wife knows what music to play.

I didn't feel the need to review this film as a critic, because my
experience with this film was more emotional than intellectual. If you
don't have instant recollection of a moment in your past whenever you
hear a certain song, this movie is not for you. However, if you do have
a solid connection between music and a memory, don't miss this film.

Julia Ormond was good in this film as the doctor that finds the
connection. However, the real stars are the lesser known J.K. Simmons
and Lou Taylor Pucci who did an incredible job of showing the
differences in generations and how the tables can turn when your ears
and your heart open up to something new or something you hated because
of lack of understanding. I think in all of life's steps on the road
through life, denial is the most destructive.

Don't view this movie technically, you'll miss the point. Open your
heart and your soul, and you'll get it. Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
The Music Never Stopped is about a father's struggles to reconnect with
his son, who's unable to form new memories owing to a brain tumor.
Sounds like movie-of-the-week fluff, but the movie is never
manipulative. It's a terrific, old-school sentimental film that tears
your heart out without stooping to clichés. In fact, it absolutely
brilliant not only in spinning its main theme but in how it sets that
father-son connection against a wholly accurate musical background. The
music, that is, ain't there just to showcase a period.

We meet our leads right away. It's 1986, and father Henry (J.K.
Simmons) and mother Helen (Cara Seymour) Sawyer have just discovered
that their long-estranged son Gabriel (Lou Taylor Pucci) is in a
hospital, diagnosed with a large brain tumor. The tumor is operable and
benign, but the doctor tells the stricken parents that Gabriel - whom
they haven't seen in about twenty years - can no longer form new
memories. What he does remember ends at about 1970.

After trying all sorts of medicines and other therapies, Henry finds an
article written by a musical therapist, Dianne Daley (Julia Ormond);
Daley tries to use music to bring Gabriel back to the present, as he
still believes it's 1970 or so. And she quickly learns - no spoiler
here - that although Gabriel is musically inclined, he reacts
positively only to music from the late 1960s and thereabouts,
especially that of the Grateful Dead.

Now, confession time. Those of you who know me well know that I am a
Deadhead. Have been on the bus for a long time now. So I had high
expectations for this movie, perhaps expectations that even differed
from other viewers. And I can confidently say that the movie far
exceeded those expectations.

Here's why. The movie doesn't just use the music as a prop to move the
plot forward. Why does Gabriel react positively only to this music?
What happened in 1970? We do find out, and it is very important. But
the impetus for Gabriel's leaving home as a teenager is closely tied to
the connection each of us feels with our own favorite music. Everyone
has some song they love, the movie tells us, and when we hear that song
we are taken back to a time and place that is unique to our memories.
Others may hear the same song and are affected differently by it. In
Gabriel's case, the songs from that era represent the last time he was
truly all right. When his parents hear the same songs in 1986, their
memories are colored by what they've experienced since then.

Gabriel is never depicted as a simple, brain-dead hippie. He's just
some kid who's in a band, like so many long-haired youths were back
then, emulating groups like The Beatles, the Stones, and yes, the Dead.
Playing covers. Enjoying themselves, falling in love. Gabriel not only
knows all of the current (for the time) bands, he knows the meanings
behind songs such as Dylan's "Desolation Row." Gabriel, for a
high-school kid, is a pretty deep thinker.

He shares his love of music with his father, who grew up with more
staid orchestral arrangements - some Count Basie, some Bing Crosby, and
so on. Completely different music, and yet each uses his favorite songs
to relate to favorite memories.

Henry eventually does realize that the best way to communicate with his
son is to learn every Grateful Dead song and then play the records for
him when he visits Gabriel in his hospice-like home. Anything, you see,
to try to get his son back to him.

It doesn't matter if you like the Dead's music. It really doesn't. As
any tour veteran would tell you, the experience of a show is one you'll
never get anywhere else. Often imitated, never duplicated. There's a
lot going on, and event is a culture unto itself. In this movie,
director Jim Kohlberg uses some of the songs and a (staged) concert in
order to depict this experience, and truthfully it's as accurate as it
could possibly be - well, for a movie that uses no authentic concert
footage.

This is not a movie that will make you laugh very often. Gabriel gets
off some bon mots, some of which are unintentional, what with the
memory loss thing. Simmons gets great lines, too. But essentially, this
is a sad movie that never wallows in melodrama, a feat that most movies
simply can't pull off. The movie engages us with the characters, makes
us love them and regard them as actual people.

But it's not all the doing of Kohlberg. Were the Oscars coming up, I
could see Simmons garnering a nomination for Best Actor. It's easily
the best work he's done, and he's been in scads of things. Those of you
with HBO will recognize him from Oz; you might also remember him from
Juno and the Spider-Man films. The man is a gifted supporting actor.
Here, he turns in an astounding, honest, and brave performance that
won't leave your tear ducts dry for very long. This isn't just a
three-hankie movie, it's an entire gross of Kleenex boxes. But like I
alluded earlier, it's also not a soap opera that simply toys with your
emotions. It's sincere and real and just magnificent.
<|_=00=_|>
"Music elicits measurable responses in the brain's activity" After
Henry (Simmons) has a fight with his son Gabriel (Pucci), he decides
that home is no longer for him and leaves. 20 years later Gabriel is
found with a brain tumor that eliminates long term memory. After
thinking he is still in the sixties his parents struggle to find a way
to communicate with him. When a therapist discovers that music is the
answer his parents have to adjust their lives to get their son back.
This is an amazing movie. Much like "Barney's Version" and "Trust",
this is a movie that didn't get the advertising that this deserved and
will not be seen by the audience it should have. An extremely touching
movie that deals with a strained father and son relationship, and the
struggle to reconnect. There is not enough good things I can say about
this movie. Much like "Trust" this is a movie that has the possibility
of helping people and can become much more then just a movie. I cannot
recommend this enough, do yourself a favor and watch this movie. You
will be moved to tears and be left with an absolutely satisfying
feeling. Why can't more movies be this way? Overall, one of the best
movies in the last 10 years, and next to "Barney's Version" the best
movie of the year. I easily give it an A+.

Would I watch again? - Absolutely.

*Also try - Barney's Version & Mr. Holland's Opus
<|_=00=_|>
I'm so glad to have been able to see this movie. Most of you will know
J.K. Simmons as Jonah Jameson from the Spider-Man movies, although his
list of work is impressive. I haven't heard of Lou Taylor Pucci before
and now because of this film, I'll keep my eye out for him. This movie
works because of the performances and heartfelt emotions you will feel
throughout. With a very easygoing approach, the characters suck you
into their lives and will have you feeling practically everything they
are displaying on the screen.

Henry (Simmons) and Helen (Saymour) Sawyer receive a telephone call
from the hospital. It appears that their son, Gabriel (Pucci) has
turned up. He looks dazed and confused when they arrive to see him. The
doctor (Adsit) informs them that Gabriel has a brain tumor and once
they remove it, he will lose a good chunk of his brain that supplies
the ability to form new memories and will give him what appears to be
amnesia. Henry takes the news pretty hard because he threw Gabriel out
of the house more than twenty years ago. It eats up at him and even
gets him fired from his job because even though he's there, he's not
really there. With the medical bills starting to pile up, Helen goes to
work and tells Henry to go visit with Gabriel. As Henry starts to bond
with his son, he starts doing some research and sees that their might
be a connection to Gabriel's memories and music. After reading a column
written by Dianne Daley (Ormond), a musical therapist, he tracks her
down and informs her that he read her article. "Oh, so you're the one
who read it," she jokes. The light bits of humor they have in the film
are very important because it is a very somber story and humor is
always used to alleviate tension, which the film does masterfully. She
gets started straight away with Gabriel and has one breakthrough after
another in getting Gabriel to open up by playing old records. It seems
he doesn't remember the music as much as he remembers what he was doing
and/or thinking the first time he heard the music. It opens up all
kinds of new doors to Henry, who can finally talk to his son about what
happened that night twenty years ago. Throw in a little side story
about a very sweet cafeteria worked named Celia (Maestro) who Gabriel
has a crush on, Henry going out of his way to get Gabriel the surprise
of his lifetime and one of the best soundtracks in motion pictures and
you've got an excellent film that just speaks to you on so many levels.

This movie is as funny as it is heart-breaking. The writer, the
director and the actors all did outstanding jobs on this film. I loved
all of the humor that was put into this film. And it wasn't
unintentional humor, it was perfectly choreographed to show us that
there's so much more to tragedy than all the pain and suffering. Yes,
there are some moments in the film where tears will well up and you
think you might lose it at any moment, but something will happen or
someone will say something or even better yet, the music will play and
it will reel you back in so you can function without blubbering at the
same time. The acting is superb in this one. J.K. Simmons gives a
pitch-perfect performance as the father who regrets his actions two
decades ago. The film is also partly told in flashbacks, so we get a
nice comparison of what and who each man was and how they treated each
other and how they came to be where they are now.

Yes, it is an independent film and the budget wasn't all that huge, but
as I've said before, you don't need a lot of money, special effects or
explosions to tell a good story. With some films we expect it (big
budget action pictures), with other films (such as this one), all it
needed was the story and the performances. Once you have those, the
rest is just filler. One thing that did distract me a bit from Pucci's
performance was his amazingly bad fake beard -- what did the producers
do.... join a Beard-of-the-Month Club or something? Give me something
at least tolerable, for crying out loud. Fake wookie beard aside, I
loved The Music Never Stopped. I urge everyone to see this film, easily
one of the year's very best.

More reviews at www.soveryterry.com 

Final Grade: A-
