
I used to look at IMDb regularly and base whether or not I went to a
movie on the reviews. With this currently rated so low, I would have
normally stayed away, but thankfully I found Roger Ebert's review,
which was wonderfully objective. Is this movie perfect? No. Is it fun?
Yes. Will you laugh? Probably. I've read several comments included in
reviews on here about the side story lines, how little body fat there
is on the actors (Really?! Maybe showing fit people is a really good
idea.), and a few other things. My basic answer is, so what? Enjoy the
movie for what it is. It's a brief look at the life of a two very
chaotic and dysfunctional families. Sometimes that's how life works. It
may not be your life, but it may be close to someone else's. There are
times when the dialogue is so over the top, it was obviously to achieve
a certain comedic or dramatic moment, and I'm OK with that. One of the
important aspects to me is that in this day and age of movies that
portray the worst of society, this portrays the successful black
families. The characters were very believable for me. In several
instances, I could have sworn I met them at some point in my life. The
main characters are certainly the core of the movie. Sabrina and Jason
are the young couple whose wedding is affected by the vastly different
backgrounds they come from. The mothers are given a very powerful place
in the film, with their actions affecting everyone else, as they
should. The dynamics are interesting to watch at first, but by the end
of the movie, it's very easy to see how and why people are the way they
are. Some of the climaxes in the movie are easy to spot, others not so
much. In the end, this was a very enjoyable movie, and definitely worth
seeing. I almost never choose a romantic comedy as my first choice, but
this was such a well rounded movie, even I found it very enjoyable (as
a guy) to go to. It wasn't sappy, it wasn't cheesy, it was just plain
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
It was a great movie. The writing and acting were exceptional. I'll
give credit where credit is due. I've already seen it twice. 

It was not a Ghetto movie as some call it. It's nice to see blacks
portrayed in a more positive light. I thought the entire setting from
Brooklyn to Martha's Vineyard was interesting. I liked the whole
transition. The social classes was typical. I can go on and on about
what I loved about this movie but I would rather let people go see it
for themselves. They'll be pleasantly surprised. 

It's not a "BLACK" movie. I never say, I'm going to see a "White movie
or a black movie. 

I've read quite a few disparaging and very bias comments. I hate all
the labels and brands on this board. It's appalling and so unfair. You
actually have to go and see the movie first before you critique it.
Stop listening to the media's perception of other races.
<|_=00=_|>
These type of African-American comedy movies that make their way to the
market are among the few. Jumping the broom is a type of movie that
avoids many of the typical and overused stuff of the genre yet provoke
a fair degree of an enjoyable experience. It's not a perfect movie but
hey, c'Mon who needs that tension, we are going for fun. The movie has
enough entertaining and funny moments that will provide satisfaction to
your movie watching experience thanks to the award-winning cast for
their great performances.

This takes us to the movie theme and plot. In a simple style and scale
the director Salim Akil presents a family and culture clashing comedy
that is well filmed with progressive shots with a bright tinch of
melodrama. As in many romantic movies, the story is about two
lovebirds, but here the story is all about class and status. The film
features two love-birds Sabrina Watson (Paula Patton) and Jason Taylor
(Laz Alonso) planning to marry each other. However the main setup of
the film is that these two love each other but their families don't.

Apart from the storyline the film works only because the script is a
juggling stuff with a dozen of jokes and gags. Another coup for the
film is it's amusing supporting characters which prevents a hard
collision and bloodbath when these two entirely different families meet
each other. This film also has other shining moments such as it's
elegant wedding feel and well coordinated cinematography. The casting
is well chosen and diverse. Overall, by most standards it's not enough
for a movie to be a hit but will attract the audience as a funny and an
interesting flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was going to be another one of those boring date movies
that I must see to make my girl feel good. But, it turned out to be
rather good. The story flowed well with good acting by Angela Bassett
and the cast did a good job as well. With a nice mixture of
drama,comedy and even a few twists. Enjoy the movie for yourself. I can
never understand what other critics are actually looking for when they
preview a movie. As long as I can feel the characters and not worry
about when the credits will role then it is a decent movie. I must say
it is nothing worthy of an Oscar nomination but its definitely worth
the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this movie without expecting much but a few chuckles, what
received instead was a new favorite movie and a very pleasant surprise!
"Jumping the Broom" is a fantastic movie that is fun, powerfully
emotional, and genuine. One walks away from the movie with a new and
improved good mood! The characters are incredibly easy to relate with
on all levels. They are well rounded, but not too complex. It was quite
entertaining to follow the different love connections throughout the
movie. There is definitely something for each person to take away from
the movie and I highly recommend it to every person, everywhere! I did
not want this movie to end and will be re-watching many, many more
times!! two big thumbs up!!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw Jumping the Broom OMG the bomb what a great movie. I saw
some of my family members in there it was hilarious. This movie touched
on just about every area of family drama. This was not just a black
film this is a movie for all to see. The cast was spectacular and very
believable in their roles. The characters in the film looked like real
family members, sometimes you will see a film and the character really
don't look like they belong. This is a movie I would take my
grandchildren to see. This was a thought provoking movie especially for
those getting married or thinking about getting married.I plan on
seeing it again. Great job Bishop Jakes!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Jumping the Broom was a refreshment to view. It was a pleasure to watch
a movie that was not sexually explicit and profane in content. I much
enjoyed the film and the cast members. The movie contained helpful
lessons and wise messages with a balanced mix of humor. I delighted in
my laugh-out-loud moments. The scenery was appealing, and the family
focus was much appreciated.

We need more such films that celebrate families, and films that avoid
excessive violence, profanity, and sexually explicit content.

Jumping the Broom was an experience of enrichment. I left the theater
with a cheerful, and joyous countenance, and robust appreciation for
the production.

A hearty thank you to all who were involved.

In sincerity, Sandra Renee Hicks
<|_=00=_|>
If you truly love someone,AND YOUR HEART ACHES, then this is IT.
Also,you'll love everything else: the actors (every single one of them
performs so truly that you will either laugh your heart out or shed ...
all your tears), the fabulous setting (Martha's Vineyards, and the
gorgeous houses...), the pictures are amazing too( Sony HD pictures,
mentioned in the credits!!), the beaches, and oh.. the music, god so
many beautiful soul songs (and not only), no wonder black music is the
best !I have downloaded all of them! I loved it, I was touched by
several scenes, and of course the beautiful Angela Basset is the reason
I watched the movie , always exceptional in her acting. Paula Patton is
a natural too , she is so charming and pretty.Watching her made me
realize she could easily portray late Whitney Houston in an upcoming
BIO ( her smile reminds me of her ). Congrats to the film makers , nice
plot, wonderful cast,and sensational music. A kind of Pretty woman
style movie, catchy and touching.
<|_=00=_|>
I love movies, and I think this was a very good movie. It had a good
story line and dealt with many issues that arise when a young couple in
love marry and two families become united. There were some funny scenes
and lines in the movies but also some powerful scenes. Mike Epps had
some excellent one-liners and I like the interaction between Little
Romeo (now all grown-up) and Tasha Smith (cougar relationship). I also
like the interaction between the main love interests. There were some
twists in the plot which I liked but most of all I liked how the
characters came to grips with the imperfections of life and made the
best of the situation. I thought it was a good movie and recommend
others to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Terrific film showing two African American families-one very wealthy
(supposedly) and the other, rather poor people from Brooklyn. The son
of the latter and the daughter of the former are to be married.

When the families meet for the first time, fireworks immediately fly
and it appears that the marriage-to-be will definitely come apart.

Angela Bassett is marvelous as the upright mother of the bride. Not at
all contented with her African heritage, Bassett is a snob to the hilt.

Bassett is equally matched by Loretta Devine, mother of the groom and a
Brooklyn postal worker. She is basically the stereotype of a typical
mother-in-law.

The film's comedy turns serious when Devine overhears Bassett and
another woman reveal a deep dark secret. In order to break up the
wedding, she is only to happy to reveal the secret to the bride-to-be.

This is definitely a great film showing the different class structures
among people, but how they can settle their differences and unite.
