
Let me open with what any film review should address: I did not enjoy
this movie. But first, a disclaimer: despite my reasons, I want to
assure you that none of my negative points will verbally lambast lead
actor Taylor Lautner just because 'he's some guy from Twilight.' Nor
will I make scalding reference to his gratuitous lack of upper body
wear; the kind that one would hope comes off as witty commentary but
ends up sounding more like an awkward combination of contempt and
jealousy. So, with that out of the way, let's get started.

When the shy but short-tempered Nathan (Lautner) is paired up with girl
next door Karen (Lily Collins) for a school research assignment, he is
shocked to find an image of his younger self on a 'missing persons'
website, prompting him to question everything he thought was normal
about his life. When the cover is blown, he and Karen find themselves
on the run, unable to trust anyone in their search for the truth.

Not only will I not target any more of this review towards Lautner
personally, I will even concede that he does his best on what is
otherwise a sinking ship from the opening scene. Naturally, his acting
skills do need refinement, and I expect we're not looking at the next
De Niro here, but his occasionally lackluster delivery is simply a
branch of a much bigger problem- the script.

As an unapologetic actioner, it should be expected that Abduction
possesses some of the clunky dialogue clichés associated with the
genre. These include, but are not limited to 'trust has to be earned',
'I'm not leaving without her' and perennial favourite 'waithow do you
know my name?', which is actually used more than once. But among these
tired expressions is a handful of headscratchers; lines intended to act
as cool quips but possessing an undoubtedly cringe-worthy aftertaste.
For example, after Gerry (Sigourney Weaver) helps Nathan escape using
balloons to cover security cameras (a la Ocean's Eleven) she releases
them with the deadpan, utterly serious line of 'I hate balloons'. So
you see my point.

The set pieces are just as ludicrous, asking the viewer to buy into the
movie too much when we have not been given any reason to engage with
the plot in the first place. In one instance, we bear witness to a CIA
agent (operating undercover as a suburban housewife) easily take out
two trained assassins. The climax set at a baseball game is a
storytelling train wreck, fraught with inconsistencies and overly
convenient outcomes. At the very least, I hoped a film set in
Pittsburgh would show some love for the mighty Steelers instead of the
lowly Pirates, but I digress.

General flaws in logic and realism are other aspects that can be
attributed to this type of movie without having them become a major
concern. Often, we tend to overlook moments which would result in
serious injury for the hero in real life simply because he's just that,
a hero. I'm also willing to pass these moments off, but in Abduction
they occur so often, and on such a noticeable scale that they severely
detract from any engagement with the film that could be developed as it
progresses, and therein lies its greatest letdown.

I commend the satisfactory action scenes, which minimised the kind of
close-up, rapid camera movement that has drawn the bulk of my ire in
recent months. Also, I was pleased to see the film show a bit of
gumption by avoiding an entirely happy, alls-well-that-ends-well
conclusion, but these upsides are not enough to sweeten what is
otherwise an inherently flawed film.

*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So
drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you
thought of my review.*
<|_=00=_|>
Five minutes. That was how long it took before Taylor Lautner took his
shirt off in his purportedly gritty action thriller 'Abduction'- and
depending on how you took to that fact, you may find yourself enjoying
every minute of it or cringing in disbelief. Right from the start, this
Taylor-made vehicle makes no excuses for being a breakout role for the
'Twilight' star- after all, if Team Edward (or Robert Pattinson) can do
it, then there's no reason why Team Jacob can't do likewise.

Nonetheless, it seems that Team Jacob should have just stayed in the
woods of Forks, Washington, for this insipid Bourne-wannabe does him
nor his fans no favours. Rather, (and we may be risking our life and
limb by saying this) it only demonstrates his limitations as an actor,
especially since he practically recycles the same angsty broody
expression throughout the film that he had already put forth umpteen
times in the 'Twilight' movies. And no, being a teenager who discovers
that the people you call 'mother' and 'father' aren't in fact your real
parents isn't much of an excuse too. 

That's the predicament Lautner's character Nathan finds himself in one
day, after stumbling across a website with photos of missing children
and using some software to approximate what one of those kids could
look like as a teenager. Though that's the very premise of the movie,
the least we expected was for debut feature film screenwriter Shawn
Christensen to come up with a better lead in than just some stupid
research assignment Nathan and his girl next door Karen (Lily Collins,
daughter of singer Phil) was assigned to work together on. 

Logic and coherence are however too much evidently to demand, as one
would have to suspend both to believe that Nathan is suddenly at the
centre of global espionage with both the good guys (led by 'Spiderman
2's' Alfred Molina) and the bad guys (led by Swedish actor Michael
Nyqvist from 'The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo') in pursuit. Apparently,
Nathan is the son of a top secret CIA undercover operative whose
'parents' (Jason Isaacs and Maria Bello) are fellow CIA agents sent to
protect him while his father is away. As with all chases, the aim is
for something that Nathan has in his possession- some encrypted code
with the names of dirty CIA agents. 

It takes almost half an hour before the action kicks in, the
introduction that sets up Nathan's adolescent issues and his secret
high-school crush on Karen pure tedium that is definitely not director
John Singleton's forte. Thankfully, the pace picks up considerably once
Nathan is thrust into that implausible situation, with Singleton
clearly at ease setting up the film's various action sequences. One of
the first that sees Nathan's 'parents' murdered is shot and edited for
maximum thrills, and the climax set in a packed stadium with a live
baseball match also packs suspense. 

To Lautner's credit, the action also looks good because he performs
most, if not all, of the stunts by himself- whether tackling a bigger-
sized guy MMA-style or fleeing from the bad guys with parkour.
Singleton doesn't go for the shaky-cam technique, allowing his audience
to appreciate Lautner's physicality in its full glory. Even so, taking
on the lead role requires Lautner to perform some serious acting in
order for us to identify with his character's inner distress, but the
square- jawed actor with his one-note performance fails to inspire any
empathy. 

The fault doesn't lie with Lautner entirely- to appeal to the teenage
demographic which the producers are relying on to turn up for this
movie, they have decided to amp up the obligatory romance between
Nathan and Karen, even to the extent of letting the two teenage
characters engage in some heavy making-out that stops just before it
crosses the PG13 boundary. It is distracting and laughable, although
the latter seems to be in line with most of the awful dialogue in the
film. 

Not even veteran stars like Isaacs, Bello, Molina, Nyqvist and
Sigourney Weaver (who plays Nathan's psychologist) can redeem this
at-best made- for-TV thriller that tries to be the younger version of
the Bourne series. So as much as Team Jacob may wish for Lautner to be
their Matt Damon, or even Tom Cruise, it is clear from his debut
headlining movie that once the 'Twilight' phenomenon fades, the same
can probably be said of Lautner's acting career as well. 

- www.moviexclusive.com
<|_=00=_|>
PROS - His abs. Really nice body (which I am guessing women over 45
liked it so much) 

CONS - Everything. 

In summary this movie is shocking. It did look promising for the first
5minutes but it went down hill really fast. The acting was so bad and
the lines are shocking. Sigourney Weaver does her best with but like us
she has trouble relating to anyone in the movie. It gets to the point
that where you just wished either the bad guys with the guns or the
good guys with the guns (that's the CIA... That's right pure as the
driven snow) would catch the kid. 

I would say get it out on DVD or download it, but I would strongly
recommend saving your money and your bandwidth allocation and your
time, and watch something else.... Anything else....
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a female fan of the "Twilight" series, there is probably
only one thing you need to know about this movie: yes, lead star Taylor
Lautner takes off his shirt at the slightest excuse to show off those
washboard abs.

For those who are not interested in Lautner, I am afraid there's
ABSolutely nothing in "Abduction" for you - unless you like half-baked
spy thrillers, lame acting and asinine script.

The plot is about high school student Nathan Price (Taylor Lautner) who
stumbles upon an image of himself as a little boy on a missing persons
website. He realises that his parents (Maria Bello and Jason Isaacs)
are not his own and that his life is a lie. As Nathan starts to search
for his true identity and his biological parents, he is being targeted
by a team of rogue agents, forcing him to flee with his neighbor, Karen
(Lily Collins). He begins to realize that his fabricated life is hiding
a dangerous truth.

In writing this screenplay, I suspect that writers Shawn Christensen
and Jeffrey Nachmanoff must have pieced together ideas from The Bourne
Identity and the recent Hanna - and come out with this harebrained
plot. But the truth could be that director John Singleton and the
film-makers do not really care about the plot: they just want an excuse
to show heart-throb Lautner and Collins on the run from some baddies
(who included Swedish icon Michael Nyqvist of "The Girl With The Dragon
Tattoo") in order to film some action sequences.

Indeed, many films have gotten away with idiotic plots - provided they
have stars that audiences could root for. Alas, Lautner seems incapable
of having more than a couple of expressions and he can't act to save
his life. Neither can Collins despite the strong support of veterans
like Sigourney Weaver (as Nathan's shrink) and Alfred Molina (as a CIA
exec). All through the first half, Singleton keeps the audience
wondering why Nathan is being chased and in the second half, his aim is
probably to keep them from walking out of the cineplex. ABS-olutely for
Lautner fans. (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited when I saw the cast. Listen to the actors involved in
this production. There's Sigourney Weaver, Alfred Molina, Jason Isaacs,
Michael Nyqvist and Maria Bello. Okay, so there's also Taylor Lautner
in the lead role, as well as Lily Collins as his sidekick, but I was
hopeful that the supporting cast could allow it to be a worthwhile
watch. For a while, I actually believed that "Abduction" could be a
good film.

Even the first 20 minutes or so weren't that bad. We watched Nathan
(Lautner) and his friends go to a party and get drunk. He wakes up the
next morning hungover and stripped of his shirt. Those of you who have
seen the "Twilight" films are probably used to seeing Lautner without a
shirt on, but surprisingly, it stays on his person for the majority of
this film. Nathan goes home to find out that his father (Jason Isaacs)
wants to have a boxing session, so they fight, and it's enjoyable. It's
especially fun because the younger of the two gets beaten up quite a
bit. He's also grounded for a week because he didn't call home. How
adorable.

We watch the young Nathan go to school and get assigned a project to
work on with his neighbor, Karen (Collins). Their project has something
to do with missing children, or maybe just people in general, it's not
really elaborated on. When looking at one website, they see a child
that looks remarkably similar to Nathan. They do a digital
reconstruction of what the child might look like now, and it's almost a
perfect match. Then they look closer at the younger photo, and they see
that the shirt the child is wearing is the same on that Nathan had as a
kid. It even has the same stain on the right shoulder. Weird, right?

Well, apparently not. This was a trap, and Nathan fell right into it.
Things happen which I won't spoil, a little bit of "Spy Kids" action
goes on in regards to Nathan's parents, and eventually Nathan and Lilly
end up on the run from not one, but two parties. The first claims to be
the CIA, and is led by Alfred Molina, while the second is a bunch of
Russian guys led by Michael Nyqvist. Can the pair trust anyone? Will
they get out alive? Who knows, but more importantly, does anyone care?

I certainly didn't. Nathan was as bland as you might expect a Taylor
Lautner character to be played. He's your typical teenager -- shy
around girls, loves playing video games and hanging out with friends --
and yet, he is an amazing athlete and could easily be the most popular
person at the school. He also has weird dreams, which he explains to
his shrink (Sigourney Weaver), and that's about as deep as his
personality gets.

What's strange about director John Singleton's picture is that he seems
to think his characters are deep, and that we deserve to spend a lot of
time with them when they're not doing anything. The plot doesn't really
kick in until maybe the half hour mark, and even after we do start to
roll, there are points when characters will stop just to chat and let
us get to know them -- all the bland, lifeless them that there is to
know.

His "friend", Karen, isn't much better. She basically serves no purpose
except to give Nathan someone to talk to throughout, and even when it
would be intelligent to leave her so that she can be safe, he doesn't
because, well, I'm not really sure. She protests against going home,
although she's not the target anyway. He is, because there's a list
that his father -- his real father, anyway, as it turns out that
Isaacs' character wasn't really his dad -- stole, that everyone else
wants. There's more to the list than just that, but it serves as the
MacGuffin to drive the plot.

Whether or not Taylor Lautner makes a good action star will depend
entirely on how you see him, and whether or not you can believe it.
Personally, I didn't think he had it in him, but if you're a big fan,
you'll probably overlook any of his flaws anyway. I can say that he
desperately struggled with the more dramatic scenes, line delivery, or
even acting like a normal human being whenever he wasn't being chased.

What gets to me most is how poorly the established actors were used.
Weaver gets three scenes total, I believe, Nyqvist is always just in
the background, except for one scene during a Pittsburgh Pirates
baseball game which comes close to being the sole highlight, while
Molina plays basically the same character as Nyqvist, being used in the
same way: Poorly. If "Abduction" goes to prove anything, it's that
Lautner cannot carry an action film alone.

This would still all be okay if the action was entertaining, but it
just isn't. The action scenes follow this sort of pattern: Fist fight,
car chase, fist fight, car chase. Rinse and repeat as often as you can
in the remaining hour and change after the plot kicks in, and I've
basically described the entire movie. Well, there are those scenes when
the characters, and the audience get a break, but they end up dragging
us down because the actors involved in them don't make us believe in
their characters.

"Abduction" is terrible, especially given how talented the supporting
cast members are. But Lautner can't carry this film, the secondary
actors are all underutilized, while the writing and action scenes were
all lackluster. The plot doesn't even make complete sense, with things
needing exposition being ignored, and things easily understood given
all of the time. Unless you want to watch Taylor Lautner being chased
around for 100 minutes, you have no reason to spend your time with
"Abduction".
<|_=00=_|>
In this time of economic crisis and people all around us loosing homes
and jobs, i just wonder what type of salary this Taylor Lautner got for
his role in this movie? (7.5 million!!!)Here's a guy who has no right
to be given the opportunity to act in films and be paid for it! There
are so many talented actors out there serving tables and this guy is
getting massive salaries to do what he obviously does worst... act!
This was a B minus film, not worth the admission fee or the 2 hours you
will waste watching it! I wonder what the budget of this film was?, the
money would have been better used if given to starving children or me!
go to a gym if your interested in hot bodies, go to the movies if you
want a good film, or so the theory goes...
<|_=00=_|>
As a film major I have a whole list of analytical problems with this
movie, but from a typical audience member's point of view, this movie
was just BAD. Nothing made sense, the acting was terrible, and half the
scenes were painful to watch. The "action" was decent at best, and the
"romance" was a joke. The entire theater (which was quite full) was
dying from laughter throughout the entire film. If you thought the
trailer looked bad, the rest of the film is worse.

As I mentioned, nothing seemed to make sense. The characters travel
from Pittsburgh to Virginia to halfway to Nebraska then back to
Pittsburgh all in about a day, but I'm not even sure if that's correct
because nothing is ever made clear or explained. We see scenes begin to
unravel, then suddenly they jump forward in time with no explanation.
For example, Karen (Lily Collins) is tied up in a room. We see her
knock a glass cup off a counter and it shatters. She starts kicking the
broken glass towards her hands which are tied up around a chair leg,
but then we cut back to Nathan (Taylor Lautner) who is fighting some
Russian guy and suddenly she shows up in the doorway. What happened??
How did she cut herself loose?? And this isn't just a one time thing -
it happens all throughout the film! Who made them lunch in the café? It
was empty!! And who put the gun under his seat at the stadium?!

Film flubs aside, the acting is terrible. Karen is decent, but Nathan
is a joke. Even Sigourney Weaver sounds like she's reading the lines
off the script. The only time we ever hear even a small dose of emotion
from her is the very end of the film. Any moment that was supposed to
be taken seriously was ruined by the acting and the film's attempt to
be "cool." Most the humor was topical (Justin Bieber jokes, Facebook
references) and the romance plot was pathetic. 

All in all this movie was BAD. The action was alright, but if you want
to see an action film go watch something else. The romance was dumb.
The acting was mostly awful and the story was sub-par. If you want a
good laugh then by all means go see this movie! Otherwise, don't even
bother.

Oh, and can someone PLEASE explain to me how it was late evening in
Pittsburgh, PA, but it was mid-afternoon in London??!?!!?
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to convince my friends to watch this movie because I told
them the trailer was killer. But, boy was I proved wrong. The movie was
a HUGE DISAPPOINTMENT

Sneak preview tickets are more expensive than normal movies. But I
thought it was gonna be good so I paid for it. Only to end up watching
a very bland, non-climactic movie with a very poorly written storyline.
The only highlight of the show was seeing Taylor Lautner acting as a
normal high school kid instead of a werewolf. But still, sad to say his
acting had no charisma at all. His co-actress Lily Collins was no
better, or maybe it was just her character that was so unlikeable, it
made the whole movie really draggy. 

First quarter of the movie was still fine, but then it started to get
cheesy.... There were so many loopholes in the movie and it just feels
like the script and plot were very poorly planned. I sense sloppy work
there. I left the theatre feeling so bewildered. So you might say:"it's
just a movie.... not everything makes sense" But comparing to big
action-spy movie names like Bourne, Mission Impossible and Die Hard
which have delivered an excellent movie experiences which leaves you at
the edge of your seat, Abduction feels more like a chick-flick packed
with more action, or maybe a budget action film. It's very subtle.

The parts I enjoyed in the movie was the presence of veterans like
Sigourney Weaver, Mario Bello and my favourite, Jason Isaacs who plays
Lucius Malfoy in the Harry Potter films. They are always a joy to have
and see in movies. 

I wouldn't recommend watching this movie. Unless you just want to see
Taylor Lautner, I would rather you give this show a miss. If you really
want to go for it, don't get your hopes too high.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe that this is the same director that did Boyz n the
hood 20 years ago is now director of this piece of terrible piece of
trash called abduction, it starts Lautner who was so good in Twlight
many years back is awful here as a teenage who's parents were kidnapped
is trying to prove his innocence and finds the killers who kidnapped
the parents, this is so bad on fronts, the acting is worthless, some
talents like Weaver and Molina are wasted, the screenplay is a mess and
the editing is useless, this is one of the worst movies of the year and
a complete disappointment from john singleton.

I Was so very disappointed in this, Thumbs Way Down on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at the 20 city live red carpet cast premiere. Even
though the movie has lots of talented cast like Mario Bello, Jason
Issacs, Sigourney Weaver, Alfred Molina - the movie and the poster
squarely focuses on Taylor Lautner. The red carpet talk was about his
martial arts background and the numerous cuts and bruises everyone had
suffered during the filming process. I was expecting an stunt based,
action oriented movie; even more by the talk and comparisons made to
the Bourne Identity Matt Damon and Mission Impossible Tom Cruise.

First and foremost, the writing is sloppy, the story is riddled with
weak dialog and clichés, tones changes on a whim - there isn't much
more to the plot than what's given in the trailer - a missing children
website leading to the world of guns, secret agents, CIAs etc etc. This
movie continues a trend in modern CSI-CIA-crime writing; a lack of
understanding of the basic principles of technology and I guess it
won't bother most people but for me the whole plot seemed rather
forced.

The most disappointing thing was that the action never felt like a high
grade action movie. The much vaunted stunts came out as weak and the
fights were just basic B-movie stuff that would have been acceptable in
an early 90s action movie. There are no big car chases and the big
stadium final set-piece is bit anti-climatic since the writing couldn't
cover up the basic lack of oomph in it. This is even more surprising
since the director John Singleton's last movie is the ultra-violent
"Four Brothers".

The man Taylor Lautner himself does his thing and manages to not look
like turning into a werewolf every time. He doesn't impress with his
acting or his martial arts; which begs on why he didn't insist on a
full team of martial arts coaches and stunt-men to make this movie into
his action star vehicle. Lily Collins as Nathan's love interest looks a
bit plain jane and has no personality; and doesn't quite create the
chemistry with Taylor Lautner. The train kissing scene, which we were
told would leave many a girls jealous, feels more voyeuristic and
uncomfortable than jealousy-inducing explosive.

I hate to say it but it feels like a quick cash in on Taylor Lautner's
name and fame. Everything is so undercooked and cheap feeling with
numerous blatant and obtrusive product placements that it's just a big
dupe to get the Twilight fans and teenager's ticket sales before anyone
realizes that this isn't a good movie.
