
Salamu Alaykum.

This movie from Walt Disney Pictures is great in its
entertainment,direction,romance,perfect acting, amazing direction and
script. It is hard for me to see how some people defame Walt Disney
because of envy.

Cinderella is a top and successful movie that had already achieved more
than 335 million US$ all over the world ( A very clear proof that Walt
Disney Pictures are the best expert in making animation and excellent
movies).

This film is a real terrific family movie you must all see whether you
are children or adults.
<|_=00=_|>
Overview: The story of Cinderella can be traced back to early Egypt,
China, France, Germany and many other countries from around the world.
The most well-known versions were written by Charles Perrault,
Cendrillon, and by the Brothers Grimm, Aschenputtel. There have been
countless film, television and stage adaptations of the iconic story,
but the most well-known adaptation is Walt Disney's 1950 animated film.

I first fell in love with Walt Disney's animated film when I was just
three-years-old. It was actually the first Disney film that I ever saw
as a child. I can still remember being captivated by the story and
singing along with the songs. It was as though a spell had been cast
upon me, but the magic never wore off at midnight. There were no words
to describe the level of excitement I had when I first found out that
Disney was developing a live-action film of the timeless story.

Review: Tonight, I had the opportunity to attend an advance screening
of the live-action version of Walt Disney's most beloved animated film,
Cinderella. What I enjoyed most about the latest "animation to
live-action" treatment, is that it's a relatively straightforward
telling of the classic story. While Alice in Wonderland and Maleficent
were unnecessary dark and edgy re- imaginings of their animated
predecessors, Cinderella is retold respectfully and refreshingly for
the new generation. And yes... IT'S NOT A MUSICAL!

The Cast: Lily James (Cinderella) and Richard Madden (Prince Charming)
were rightfully chosen for their iconic roles. Lily truly captured the
true essence of Cinderella's innocence, charm and beauty. Richard...
those eyes... ahem... was truly charming in every sense of the word. I
loved the chemistry between the Prince and Cinderella -- I don't think
I've seen such chemistry between two characters in a Disney film for a
very long time. It's very refreshing to see a fairy tale romance
blossom!

Cate Blanchett (Lady Tremaine) and Helena Bonham-Carter (Fairy
Godmother) were perfectly cast for their respective roles. Cate not
only brought a lot of depth to her character, but you could tell she
was enjoying the role as the malicious stepmother. Helena not only
brought a bit of comic relief to the film, but she was definitely fun
to watch -- although you can't help but wonder if Mrs. Weasley actually
zapped Bellatrix Lestrange into a parallel universe. Hmm?

Director and Writer: I personally believe that Disney made the right
decision to hire Kenneth Branagh to direct the film and Chris Weitz to
write the screenplay. As I was watching the film on the big screen
tonight, I could tell that they both approached the story with deep
understanding and, most importantly, respect. I was genuinely relieved
that it wasn't ruined by some unnecessary "dark" and "edgy" plot twist.
Phew!

Score and Costumes: I absolutely loved Patrick Doyle's score for the
film and found it to be quite fitting with the story. It was perfectly
timed and it drew you into the fairy tale world. I'm definitely happy
that I bought the soundtrack. Sandy Powell's costumes, though silly at
times, were excellent. I don't think I've seen such beautiful designs
and vibrant colours in one film since the Golden Age of Hollywood. I
genuinely hope Sandy will be nominated for an Oscar next year for those
stunning costumes. Bravo!

Sets and Special Effects: The film itself is a visual marvel --
especially for the fairy tale genre. I was truly swept away by the
lavish sets that were designed by Dante Ferretti. I don't think I've
seen such a breathtaking production since the late 1930's when
Hollywood used to put a lot of effort into their sets. The special
effects were equally breathtaking, with the dress transformation and
the carriage-to-pumpkin scenes being two of my favourite visual
highlights. Very impressive!

Running Time: My only disappointment was the running time of the
theatrical cut. I personally believe that it should have been 10
minutes or 15 minutes longer to flesh out the story more. The film
flowed smoothly and didn't feel rushed, but there were a number of
scenes and dialogue that were, unfortunately, left on the cutting room
floor. Hopefully Disney will release an extended cut, or include those
deleted scenes on the home media release. You hear me, Disney?!

Verdict: Despite my issue with the running time, I genuinely believe
that Disney did something right with their latest live-action film.
While most people were probably expecting a sword-wielding action hero,
I'm happy that Disney treated their most beloved character with the
uttermost care and respect. While the previous live-action films were
all about style, they lacked substance and, unfortunately, heart.
Cinderella, however, has style, substance and, most importantly, heart.
I'm genuinely happy that Disney kept the magic alive in this film. If
Walt Disney himself were alive today, I'm sure he would be proud to see
his most treasured little saviour be retold to the new generation in a
beautiful and charming way. Bravo! 

Note: Make sure to stay during the whole end credits as it's
accompanied by Lily James singing a beautiful rendition of "A Dream Is
A Wish Your Heart Makes" and Helena Bonham Carter singing a much
humorous version of "Bibbidi Bobbidi Boo". A wonderful nostalgic
tribute to the animated film!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie perfectly captures the feeling of reading a fairy tale, but
instead of that, you actually get to experience it by viewing it. I am
so glad that they kept the Original story line, and the costumes and
setting are beautifully done. I have watched this movie multiple times
already, and still feel like I could view it many times more.
Definitely recommended for people that love classic fairy-tale stories.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure it's still got some of the dated gooey-ness of the original movie,
sure Shrek's impact on savaging the Disney/fairy-tale formula can still
be felt years after release, but Cinderella is a beautifully directed
and cinematographed; and Kenneth Branagh did this? 

Why do films like this exist in today's industry? Well franchising for
one thing, and even though films like this are basically products in
Disney's pipeline it CAN be well done given that the movie's got a
determined director at the helm. And oddly, Branagh, the guy who
directed films such as 1996's Hamlet, was just the guy to make
Cinderella into a watchable film. It's pretty, has a good cast and has
some nice tid-bits of humor here and there. And it's an update on the
whole Disney-esque 'happily ever after' thing. Yes the story's the same
but it gives some much-needed chemistry to Cinderella's and 'The
Prince''s romantic charm. And... it works.

You don't need to be a girl or a gay to like this film; just see it for
what it is: a harmless remake of an animation from the 1950s.
<|_=00=_|>
Love this film! no it is not like the original but it is great in it's
own way! The prince is more developed as a character, the step-mother
is still great, and Cinderella is great too. I think this Cinderella is
more quiet and with that a quiet beauty and strength comes through her
and it really shines. I love this movie and I will always love to watch
this one and the original one.
<|_=00=_|>
My disappointment was hearing that critics had found fault with this
work of perfection.

The characterisation has been thought through carefully and the
temptation to make caricatures of the step-mother and her daughters
consciously resisted.

The retelling of "Cinderella" (apparently known, in the 19th century,
as "Cinderslut") with the benefits of modern techniques and processes
is impeccable.

Often, films that are 'great works' suffer from some minor weakness or
other, a detail not followed through, a hasty bit of editing, a clipped
or overly long scene but never did I feel that could be said about
Disney's film. "TLC" (tender loving care") from beginning to end.

True to Walt's original intentions, here is a film for all the family
(well, some teenagers may want to wait a little).

Good luck, it's great to see memorable films making it to our screens.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has been very poorly understood by the public. Unlike
previous films, which seek to rewrite traditional fairy tales or watch
them from new perspectives ("Maleficent", "Ever After", or even the
animations "Brave" or "Tangled"), this film is the live-action version
of the fairy tale in its more traditional version. Therefore, we know
the whole story and very little has been changed or added. Any problem?
Not for me. I usually like original versions more than any contemporary
re-interpretations, but it seems that fairy tales have gone out of
style.

One of the criticisms I saw was the Cinderella's passive attitude: the
girl was educated under values of kindness and generosity (something
our current society no longer knows) and isn't willing to abdicate
these principles in adversity. Maybe she think that would betray her
mother's memory. For our society, which treats the dead as unknown and
the living even worse, such submission and servitude is unacceptable!
The oppressed must revolt! Cinderella shouldn't serve the tea, she
should take that teapot and stick it in her stepmother's throat! Or
should she kick her feet and whine, saying "I don't do it, I'm sick of
it"? If you are reading this and you're also think that Cinderella
should revolt, then you're one more who has totally forgotten what a
fairy tale is. A fairy tale is not about reality or what we do. It's
about moral values and what we should do. And the moral teaching
conveyed by this tale is that biblical passage "turn the other cheek",
that you must have heard in Sunday School if you have frequented it.
Cinderella's tale is entirely about this! She had the courage to
silently endure her suffering and to forgive those who hurt her and, in
the end, her reward was to fall in love with a prince and change her
life. Her stepmother's punishment didn't delay: she ended up punished,
but not by the person she most offended. Moral of the story: love your
enemy and forgive, you will have the reward, sooner or later.

Well, the movie is great and is absolutely true to the original fairy
tale, including with regard to costumes and sets, which are beautiful.
Unfortunately, CGI is too obvious. I would have preferred realistic
sets in proper locations rather than the green screen, which should be
used with more caution. I have seen some criticism about the large
neckline of Cinderella's dress but, in the historical period in which
the tale was set (19th century), the ball dress were usually very
low-cut. But don't complain! We see women with even fewer clothes on
our streets today and we find it natural! Lily James and Cate Blanchett
are the main actresses of the film and it is their work (as stepmother
and stepdaughter) that supports the whole plot. Blanchett,
unsurprisingly, shone with her usual charm, and the veiled but venomous
malice she had bestowed on her character. James is an actress I didn't
know but I liked to see, having done her work quite well. It's a young
actress, surely this movie isn't going to be the movie of her life, but
she left a promise of talent that may come to blossom. Helena Bonham
Carter and Stellan Skarsgård also enter the film in supporting roles
that their talent makes it seem easy.

This movie will easily please all those who want to watch a movie with
the original Cinderella story. It's absolutely the same as the book our
grandparents used to delight our childhoods. However, if you've gotten
tired of it and prefer a modern version of the story this movie is not
for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just magical! The message of the movie genuinely touched
my heart and spirit, it was breathtakingly gorgeous! The colors, the
cinematography, the costumes just wow and love the music! The only
thing i would change is i would love it more if there's singing..Lily
James have a very sweet mezzo soprano voice i love her singing "A Dream
is a Wish" at the end of the movie. And yes The acting was so good i
cried like so many times..my fave was Prince Kit and the King's
scene,Lily crying when her dress was ripped and the first dance oh god
it was magic! and the gown transformation was so epic! The lead actors
chemistry is so strong.. i fell in love with them. This movie is so
uplifting makes me do kind deeds every time! People saying it was
boring have a heart of stone for real. This is Amazing and i can't wait
for Beauty and The Beast.. Well done Disney!&#x1F499;&#x1F618;&#x1F48B;
<|_=00=_|>
Although this is about the stepmother, I want to first say that I found
all the characters well portrayed and supported by an excellent script,
cinematography, and of course a great director. I scanned some of the
user reviews and for all those giving a very low rating it seems to me
that they missed the essence of Cinderella - it is not supposed to be
an action nor hard/boiled tale that apparently even some children want
today and should not become such.

I particularly appreciated the stepmother's portrayal because it
included clear justification for her anger and bitterness. Not to say
given that justification she was correct to have done what she did. But
a worthy lesson for us and particularly for children.

The specific scene I am referring to is when she overhears her husband
telling his daughter how much he misses her mother, i.e., where is the
love and support she desires - a more modern understanding of the
difficulty of joining an existing family. This and other related scenes
gives the stepmother a depth that makes her more real in place of the
one-dimensional cartoon version - but what a joy that version was for
me many years ago.
<|_=00=_|>
Right now Disney's current trend with their live-action films has been
a series of live-action re-imaginings of their animated classics.
Obviously this has proved to be a rather polarizing tactic amongst
certain fans, namely because they believe that these are intended to
replace the original films. Well I can assure you that this ain't the
intention. You see the internet has this mentality about remakes that
they're supposed to replace the original when that's not the case.
Hell, even if they don't end up being very good, the original is not
tainted in any way. And that's been the case with Disney's live- action
remakes, even the ones that haven't been well-received like the 'Alice'
films and 'Maleficent'.

'Cinderella', however, was the first of these remakes to actually be
well-received by critics and rightfully so as it truly is a beautiful
new adaptation of the story that Disney first told in their 1950
animated classic. The original 'Cinderella' is easily one of my
all-time favorites when it comes to Disney's animated films so I was
really excited to see this new version and I absolutely loved it. Sure
it's basically just the same story as the original but it manages to
update it by doing some things better than the original. Namely, the
relationship between Ella and the Prince in this version is much more
developed compared to the original where they immediately fall in love
and only share a few scenes together. Lily James is absolutely
fantastic in the role of Ella while Richard Madden proves to be, for
lack of a better term, a very charming Prince Charming. Of course the
rest of the cast is fantastic as well, from Cate Blanchett's excellent
take on Lady Tremaine to Helena Bonham Carter's scene-stealing turn as
the Fairy Godmother.

But like the original, the film has gotten some flak from feminists
over its title character, Cinderella. The argument is that the
character is too passive of a protagonist who only sits around waiting
to be rescued. Now this is an argument I've never really agreed with.
Sure Cinderella doesn't really do as much compared to some future
Disney princesses but there's more to her than that. She really
deserves credit for being able to put up with all of the crap she gets
thrown her way by her evil stepmother and stepsisters. The film very
much maintains the theme of encouraging people to 'have courage and be
kind'. And let's face it folks... those are good words to live by in
today's age.

Like I said before, these Disney remakes aren't replacing the
originals. They're just here to serve as interesting new takes on their
original source material. And as much I know I'm going to get a lot of
flak for this by those who are opposed to the remakes... I think this
new Cinderella is better than the original. Don't get me wrong the
original is still an animated masterpiece but as a whole I feel that
Kenneth Branagh delivered a fantastic adaptation that both reflects the
original while also being its own thing.
