
I just want to state off hand that this is my first movie review, well
other than just telling someone what I thought. So if you are looking
for a well written, witty review then.. you might want to stop reading
now. But since this movie is still in production, this will probably be
your best bet for the time being.

I just went to a free screening of Ted at the Greenback theater in
Sacramento, CA. And I just have to say off the bat, I LOVED it. A movie
hasn't made me laugh that hard in a long time. Now, I'm not going to
give you any more information than the description because with the
movie not even being released yet, I think that would be a spoiler of
some sort. But I will tell you that was so much better than what I
imagined it would be, granted that was before I knew it was directed
and voiced over by Seth Macfarlane. So if you're a fan of his, you're
definitely in for a treat, and even if you're not I still think you
would enjoy the innovative comedy that comes from a snarky and crude
teddy bear companion. The acting was very solid, from main characters
to jerk bosses, and crazy.. well, crazy people.. the acting was very
convincing and enjoyable. The story was great, while it might sound
stupid to some, myself included, it's very well executed. Definitely
not one of the movies that left me thinking "the idea was good, but
they could have done so much more with it", it was actually quite the
opposite. And this is certainly not a low budget film, the CGI
animation reflects this. The furry bear voiced by Macfarlane is very
realistic and believable. 

The only drawback I could possibly see that would cause someone
displeasure would be, like a lot of new comedies, this film pushes the
envelope in raunchy, vulgar humor. Plus the different amount of drugs
used. This movie will receive (most likely), and be very deserving of a
R rating. It doesn't rely solely on shock humor though, there is plenty
of good old fashioned clean comedy. But if your like me, and that type
of subject matter doesn't bother you, then I HIGHLY recommend this
film. And if you're a Seth Macfarlane fan, then that's just a perfectly
gift wrapped little bonus for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Family Guy. So much, that I've always said that if I were stuck
on a desert island, Seth MacFarlane is one of the people I'd want to be
stuck there with me. I found this movie horrible, loathsome, and lazy,
so much so that it actually made me question Family Guy. That's how bad
I thought it was. It made me rethink my entire conception of humor. 

I did not find this movie funny at all. The style of comedy it uses is
similar to that of Adam Sandler, whom I loathe. There's a lot of
yelling, a lot of cursing, and overall, a lot stuff that's supposed to
be funny. There are no clever jokes, no sense of set-up and reward.
Instead, it's "oh look, the man is dancing, that's hilarious!". Not. Or
"haha, that guy just said the f-word'". Isn't that funny? Kill me. I
did find exactly one scene funny- the one in which Ted and Mark
Whalberg have a fist fight in a hotel room. That reminded me of Family
Guy and I found the idea so absurd that it made me chuckle. But this
moment of hilarity is quickly diffused by a "getting hit in the groin"
joke. Now, I realize that Family Guy uses exactly this type of humor,
but somehow I always found it funnier. Maybe that's the problem here-
live action is a different medium and the same things that work in the
campy universe of cartoons don't work with real people. 

I realize that this is a comedy, but I do believe that even low brow
comedy movies should have a basic story or plot. This was supposed to
be a character driven movie. The idea is simple- Mark Whalberg is a
man-child who must learn to take responsibility and grow up. The script
screws up this idea completely and instead, Mark Whalberg makes
absolutely no change as a person. Neither does Ted. I realize it's
supposed to be adorable that a teddy bear smokes weed, but the novelty
wore off in 2 minutes. That, and I found the accent horribly annoying. 

I was excited to see the supporting cast list on wikipedia. Whalberg is
great, but like I said, his character was very poorly written. Mila
Kunis does nothing in the whole movie but play a horribly clichéd
romantic comedy girlfriend who also has no character arc in the movie.
Joel McHale is another cliché in the movie and the fact that he's in
the movie is a waste of a talented comedic actor. Laura Vandervoort
literally does nothing. I mean, I at least expected her to be the
seductress who tries to veer Mark Whalberg off the path of
righteousness, but even that doesn't happen. So why even have this
supporting cast in the movie if no one's going to do anything? 

The plot of this movie was equally weak. MacFarlane uses all of these
clichéd rom-com scenes and does nothing with them. Here's a small
example. This movie has 2 or 3 restaurant scenes. Now ask yourself- why
exactly were these scenes in the movie? Usually, restaurants are used
in comedy movies to employ some kind of restaurant related humor. Maybe
there's a maladjusted person in an uncomfortable environment, or maybe
someone has an allergy and they cause a scene. At least someone falling
or something. But the first restaurant scene of this movie simply has
Mark Whalberg and Mila Kunis sitting and talking. That could have just
as easily happened in a living room. So why was the restaurant scene
necessary? Why even do that? It's completely pointless. 

The ending to this movie accomplishes nothing. Mark Whalberg is
supposed to change as a person. The death of Ted should have signified
something, and having him come back to life s**ts on the character arc
completely and nullifies it. We have no reason to believe that Mark
Whalberg will grow up or make any kind of difference in life. 

This movie had way too much product placement. Horribly obvious product
placement. 

Here's what I think. I think Seth MacFarlane is a perfectly competent
individual who chose to be lazy. He wrote a horrible script, packed it
with TV stars we might recognize, and collected the money. It's not
just that this movie had no redeemable qualities. I actually feel like
my intelligence was insulted and that I was fooled out of my money.
Please don't let movies like this turn off your brain. Think about what
you're watching and why you're laughing and don't settle for crap like
this.
<|_=00=_|>
I just do not get it!!! This movie is just plain awful, and yet it is
breaking box office records for "R-rated" comedies. With a running time
of 98 mins, I could only manage to sit through the first 40 minutes
before turning off this unfunny, quite boring, and quite disappointing
film.

The premise of this film is quite simple. At the age of eight (8) years
old and with no real friends of his own, little John Bennett (Mark
Wahlberg) makes a Christmas wish for his teddy bear to come to life.
Ted and John become life long friends ("thunder buddies"); however,
after twenty-seven (27) years of friendship, John must decide on either
staying with his girlfriend of four (4) years Lori (Mila Kunis) or Ted.

Ted is the brainchild of Seth MacFarlane (Family Guy / American Dad)
and he voices Ted as well. Ted has no redeeming qualities, and is
combination of the two characters Quagmire and Brian from the Family
Guy TV series. He's a pot-smoking, hooker dating, grocery clerk
humping, foul mouth Neanderthal, who Lori (Kunis) feels is preventing
her and John from having the adult relationship that she so desires to
have.

In the 40 minutes that I managed to sit through, I never laughed,
smirked, grinned or even hinted to a gesture of happiness to any of the
"so-called" comedy being presented on screen because there wasn't any
there!!!! Unless you consider a foul-mouth, pot smoking teddy bear as
being funny, which I did not. However, the scene in which I could take
no more, is when Ted, while working as a clerk out clerk in a local
grocery store gets caught "bopping" another check out clerk in the
store room, and explains to his boss that, "Last week he screwed her
with a parsnip and sold the parsnip to a family of four"  so his boss
promoted him. IS THAT FUNNY?????? REALLY??? God, I feel like my dad
now, I must be getting old!!!! Anyways, the film is making money hand
over fist, and has already crossed the $100 million, and expected to
cross the $200 million mark by summer's end. I JUST DO NOT GET IT!!!!!!
I cannot recommend this film, I cannot even finish watching this film.
It's being marketed as this year's "The Hangover", and I can assure you
it is nowhere as funny as the "The Hangover". I would say avoid at all
costs but who am I???? SEE MORE OF MY REVIEWS ON FB @ "THE FARIS REEL"
<|_=00=_|>
I really should start this with a warning: This film is not for
everyone! If you are easily offended (by swearing, sexual references,
casual racism and various stereotypes) then you should read no further
and give this one a miss. However, if you are a fan of Seth
MacFarlane's other projects (Family Guy, American Dad) and maybe you
call yourself an "80's child" (so many pop culture references to this
time) you are going to love this.

Sure some parts are a little disjointed, the story seems vaguely
familiar and the "moral" of it kind of gets lost but quite frankly,
it's just so darn funny none of that matters. The script is hilarious,
the cameos are fantastic and the soundtrack is perfect.

Ted himself is well animated and Seth (apart from sounding a little
like Peter Griffin) voices him with the usual competence. Mark Wahlberg
delivers exactly what we have come to expect from him, and the rest of
the cast seem to have had fun filming, which comes across in the
various performances no matter how big or small. The acceptance and
interaction of everyone with a living teddy-bear adds to the simple joy
of this film, and you find yourself happy to watch and not question why
nobody is fazed by this. TED is a laugh a minute, party of a film and
I, for one, can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I came into this movie expecting to be laughing almost the whole time,
but I sat through the movie almost bored out of my mind! I was on the
verge of getting up and leaving but that would of been rude. So instead
I sat through the almost unbearable part of the movie where Ted and
John (Mark Wahlberg)have a big fight (surprise surprise) and John's
girlfriend dumps him (another surprise -_-) it's just a barrage of
clichés to be honest. The humour of the film was well below mediocre. I
didn't understand some the jokes because they were referencing a
celebrity that I have never heard about. The other jokes are about
drugs, swearing and getting drunk. The only time I managed a laugh was
when Ted was pretending to be a retard . All in all If you're American
you'd probably understand and enjoy this movie more than I did. If not,
stay away!
<|_=00=_|>
I have occasionally laughed out loud while my sons, ages 15 and 9,
watch Family Guy, so I don't hate Seth MacFarlane.

But I fantasized often during this tiresome film about leaving early
and letting my giggling kids get home on their own. (They found it
"awesome.")

"Ted" does have a few funny bits. It's not a bad idea to imagine a
kid's teddy bear that ages along with him -- into the raunchiest
version of a case of arrested development imaginable. The scenes with
the supermarket manager are pretty entertaining, and I found Wahlberg's
off-key serenade to Kunis amusing. 

However, 98 percent of the time I was squirming unpleasantly. Jewish
jokes? How terribly fresh and original. Fart gags? That's creative.
Scenes of guys getting crazy-drunk, knocking things over, and trashing
rooms? My sides were splitting. And it got better from there (i.e.,
poop on the floor). 

The storyline involving Wahlberg and Kunis was strictly a retread. I
tired of their petty spats and could not care less whether they stayed
together or split. The father-and-son subplot seemed like something I'd
seen before. 

I know this movie wasn't geared toward 56-year-old moms. However, I did
expect a script from the originator of Family Guy to be significantly
more clever and fun. 

I know many will disagree with me, but this movie reeked.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a perverted sense of humor and do not mind Family Guy, so I'm
not sure what I was expecting. But this nasty, pointless, unfunny
drivel was a complete waste of my time and money. About the only thing
achieved here is an effort to showcase Mila Kunis as completely
gorgeous; on all other counts it is a fail - unless you like gratuitous
eff words and references to bowel movements/flatulence/anal sex
(oooohhh how shocking, and how boring)

*Spoiler Alert* See this and tell me if you can believe Mila Kunis
wasting a perfectly good wish on having the world's most repulsive
little furball come back to life. 

Only for sophomoric morons with no schools to vandalize or cars to
torch.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all let me tell you that I rate movies on a scale from -10 to
10 with 5 being the average and negative numbers for differentiating
the awfulness of certain movies that are terrible.

That said I give this movie a 0, even though I like Seth Macfarlane's
work this was an absolute disaster. 

We got a movie with 1 dimensional leading characters of Ted and John
that didn't provide you with a single emotional reaction, while Mila
Kunis character was at least somewhat comparable to a person although
not at all complex. Supporting cast is the only part worth mentioning
since Flash Gordon absolutely stole the show with the 4 minutes of air
time he had, his lines were consistent and witty unlike anything main
characters did.

Story in itself falls apart since it is not built on anything real, the
movie is completely clownish for the first 1 hour without any character
build up and then randomly inserts "emotional" parts which left me
completely indifferent, it was awkward and out of place.

I could have said something nice about the atmosphere if the movie was
consistent as it was for the first half but it started to take itself
seriously which ruined the composure.

I wouldn't recommend any movie enthusiast to watch this terrible movie,
and reading movie reviews on IMDb in general I'm sure at least 90% of
them as well as votes are sponsored by companies, too bad for this once
great site.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was such a piece of crap. Seth McFarlane should stick to
what he knows best - cartoons, and leave the real movies to the big
people. It was the same rehash of his series Family Guy with a horrible
plot about this teddy bear growing up with his owner from childhood and
gets... kidnapped? Kidnapped really?? And do we need yet another fat
joke, or handicapped joke? If you answered yes, then you deserve to
watch this film and lower your I.Q. another 20 points. Honestly, the
only real treat was watching Mila Kunis, (and that's some damn fine
acting by the way) they must have paid her a fortune to act in this
crap. That goes for Mark Wahlberg too If you were expecting some
magical, detailed plot where the jokes are actually funny and not
recycled from a familiar series, then sorry to say look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst I did not dislike 'Ted' I cannot say I was overly impressed by
it. The hype and popularity that built up towards the film's release
had me expecting something fresh, something that would keep me laughing
days after. To my disappointment, 'Ted', to me, turned out to just
another Rom-Com, its only real unique twist being Ted himself. 

Having said that, 'Ted' did provide some good laughs, whilst they
weren't exactly side-splitting the film was entertaining and I did
watch the entire feature without getting bored or uninterested. The
animations for Ted were of a good quality, doing a good job in making
it seem like Ted was actually there with the actors, rather than just a
computer-generated 3D image. 

What I felt let 'Ted' down was it's predictability and lack of
memorable or unique laughs. Being rated as a 15, 'Ted's plot didn't
seem to suit it's targeted audience, I have seen similar story lines in
films rated PG or even U but the explicit content of 'Ted' was clearly
intended for more mature audiences, therefore I felt it deserved a more
mature plot. 

Overall, I'd recommend 'Ted' to those who are looking for a relatively
light-hearted story with a few giggles added in and a cursing, yet
somehow still lovable, teddy bear. It's good, but nothing overly
special.
