
I had low expectations when I entered the theater to see the 5th
installment of the FD series, because the 4th movie was such a
disappointment. But after watching it, I was surprised. 

First off,this movie was way,( and I mean), way better then the last
two movies were. It was darker and had a lot of elements from the first
movie, which I loved. I don't want to give away too much, but I do want
to say that the last scene of the movie will leave you speechless. It
had me thinking, "OMG, that was AMAZING how they came up with that
twist." 

One last thing I loved about this movie was that it was well planned
out and thought of, unlike the forth movie which was a joke and in my
opinion, shouldn't have never been made. The deaths weren't rushed as
opposed to the deaths in the forth movie, and it gave more screen time
to introduce us to the characters. 

Note: I will say that there is one death scene in the movie that I
didn't see coming, besides the ending. 

I recommend you see this movie. It might have the same theme as the
first four movies, but unlike the first four, it's on a much higher
scale.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of the Final Destination series. They aren't Oscar
contenders, but they are certainly quite entertaining. However, after
hearing a lot of negative feedback on the 4th FD, I decided not to
watch it and hung my head in disappointment. I genuinely thought my
favorite deadly franchise had finally bit the dust itself, and in a bad
way. But when I heard about this fifth and final Final Destination, I
decided to give it one more chance. Because hey, I hadn't been to the
theater in awhile and if it sucked I'd at least have a good laugh. But,
I am very happy to report that I was pleasantly surprised by Final
Destination 5.

The story, as other reviewers have mentioned, really sets FD5 up to
good prospects. It feels a lot more like the first FD, much darker
without being too complex. I honestly liked the 2nd and 3rd ones a lot,
but they were missing the creepy factor that the first installment had.
This fifth episode really brings it back. The characters are
surprisingly believable. Granted, you have the gratuitous hot chick and
ladies man, but the characters never feel contrived or forced. Kudos to
the actors for keeping this from being a $5-bin campy horror film.

The effects, even in 2D, were just as I think a film's effects should
be: realistic enough to avoid the fake-factor, but not so excessive
that they drown out everything else in the film. Yes, one could argue
that these movies are all about death, but what always made them
different for me from other horrors was the focus on build-up. The FD
franchise has it's fans trained to watch for every little thing in a
scene that could cause someone's demise until your skin crawls--and FD5
gives the audience this "detective" feeling perfectly.

To be honest, I wasn't expecting much out of this movie. However, from
the very beginning, I was impressed. A few points of warning: it is
very graphic, but anyone who has seen any of the other FD films should
know that already. Also, you will not enjoy this film as much if you
haven't watched at least the 1st FD, if not the 2nd and 3rd as well.
When you factor in the story and characters, the death and mayhem we've
all come to love, and one of the best plot twists I've seen this year,
FD5 is very worth watching. Go on, have some fun.

But you all just be careful, now. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Death is just as omnipresent as ever and is unleashed after one man's
premonition saves a group of coworkers from a terrifying suspension
bridge collapse. But this group of unsuspecting souls was never
supposed to survive, and, in a terrifying race against time, the
ill-fated group frantically tries to discover a way to escape Death's
sinister agenda. - - (C) Warner Bros 

If you're going in to see FD5, it's because you know what you're
expecting. Although I'm a fan of the series, I'll admit it did show its
staleness after FD2, which is arguably the series' high point. As
expected, the formula hasn't changed, although there are a few new
tweaks here, the main one including the addition that the survivors can
now kill someone to take their life and maybe, just maybe, escape
Death's clutches. It's interesting to note that this new twist is the
opposite of what was offered in FD2, in which new life can defeat
Death, but taking life is much more readily apparent and dramatic than
creating new life. Not only do they have to worry about Death, but they
also have to worry about what they are willing to do to survive, which
provides some very tense external conflict between the characters. 

As you guys might have figured out from the above, yes, FD5 has a plot
this time around. There's also an unexpected ending that you will make
you go OMG or WTF, if it isn't already spoiled to you, of course. It's
also good to know that Eric Heisserer's tight script devotes some time
to the survivors that are getting picked off. You start to feel for
them as they are about to die. As much as I'm thankful for this, it's
obvious that people still see these films for the opening disaster and
death sequences, and they do not disappoint. Without spoiling anything,
the opening bridge disaster is a nasty piece of work, utilizing the 3D
to the fullest extent. I'm a huge horror fan, but even I found it very
hard to watch, jerking my hands back as each character is killed off in
grisly ways. Without a doubt, it's the best opening disaster since FD2. 

And the death scenes. Wow. They are disturbing, funny, and shocking and
sometimes all at the same time. This is because newcomer director
Steven Quale plays with the audience's expectations. He lays out so
many things that can kill off a character in a certain scene and when
you think this sharp object will impale them, they die in a completely
different way. The build up is what makes these films fun to watch
(apart from the last one). I also liked the fact that this film
returned to the original film's serious roots, which isn't to say that
it takes itself too seriously because there's an underlying sense of
dark humor that's strangely entertaining and self-aware of itself. 

The ensemble cast is a mixed bag for sure. Our protagonist, Nicholas
D'Agosto, doesn't really live up to his character's dramatic arc. He
seems to overact his lines although he was much better in the second
half. Emma Bell is a bit better although she wasn't as good as she was
in FROZEN. Miles Fisher also doesn't live up to his character's
internal struggle when giving off a whiny performance. However, the
other supporting castmembers are quite good, including Ellen Wroe,
Jacqueline MacInnes Wood, and Arlen Escarpeta. P.J. Byrne, in
particular, is someone you should look out for, providing some of the
film's biggest laughs, playing a character you just love to hate. David
Koechner also provides some great laughs. I was disappointed with
Courtney B. Vance though because he had little to do. Tony Todd is back
since he was last seen in FD2 and he's like the American version of
Snape (from Harry Potter). I love the way he delivers his lines with
one...word...at...a...time. 

Visually, the film has some above average production values. As said
before, the bridge sequence is like something from a $100 million
budgeted action flick. The 3D is the best that has been offered so far
this year, which comes to no surprise seeing that Quale has worked with
James Cameron on AVATAR. Even from the film's ingenious and original
opening credits, we have shards of glass, knives, bodies, and blood
flying at us in amazing sharpness. Yet the 3D gimmick can only go so
far, and Quale knows that so he doesn't overdo it by providing us with
scenes of depth. Honestly, it's the best of both worlds. The soundtrack
by Brian Tyler is great as well and is definitely different from the
previous entries. 

All in all, FD5 brings unexpected new life to the dying franchise. The
plot is handled well and most of the performances are good. If
anything, this sequel proves that with new blood working behind the
scenes can come a refreshing film. If you want to see the film, by all
means see it in 3D because it is worth every penny. FD5 is shocking,
entertaining, suspenseful, funny, disturbing, and is probably as good
as FD2. It seems to be a good year for 5's (FAST FIVE included).
<|_=00=_|>
So first off, I was able to catch an early screening in Pierce County 
and went in with somewhat lukewarm expectations. With the cast, 
director, writer, and budget on board I felt it could be good but I had 
a lot more fun than anticipated. Opening scene was one of the more 
intense and crazy. (I'm a fan of the 2nd). Very much improved visual 
effects here. The 3D was executed better than the 4th as well. 
Character wise it was obvious they did better casting (Nicholas, Tony, 
Emma). I truly wanted some of these randoms to live. Deaths here are 
top notch, very blunt and very cringe worthy. This movie truly did 
improve on all aspects that the 3rd and 4th lacked...a creepy realistic 
feel. A few new aspects are thrown in as well which help keep the story 
fresh and not feel repetitive. If you are ready for this 3D 
roller-coaster then go see this well made guilty pleasure.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning, spoilers MIGHT be ahead. The "Final Destination" franchise
began going downhill rapidly from the third movie. But, will the fifth
movie help the franchise go back up or will it continue going downhill
fast? I saw this movie about a month ago, and I must say that, in my
opinion, this is the most brutal, the most gruesome, and the most
clever movie of the entire franchise. It has many well-thought out
death scenes, and one death scene in the movie made me cringe and look
away, and trust me, I watched A LOT of slasher/gornography films. One
of the most famous scene is the lasik surgery which I thought was
pretty good. I'm not going to spoil it for you. First off, this movie
has a very interesting plot line. As you heard from the trailer, you
know the new death rule, and I think it is pretty clever. But, why
didn't Bludworth tell it to the others? Hmmm...? Second of all, the
characters are very very relatable. You can actually tell if one hates
the other, and one is friends with the other for a long time. Plus, you
will also feel bad if one character dies. You will actually say "Oh,
why did he/she die? NOOO!" Not just a typical "Oh, he/she died. Who's
next?". The acting is very impressive, hence the professional and
experienced actors. I think this is one of the reasons why this movie
made it to my highest rank of the "Final Destination" franchise. Third,
what is this franchise famous of? Exactly, the unique death scenes that
happens from the materials/places we see/go to everyday. There are some
death scenes here that are very gruesome that if I picture it, I either
cringe or smile on how good the death scenes are. One death scene made
it to my top 15 most brutal death scenes I have ever seen. Some of you
might know it, some of you might not. One thing for sure is, you will
know it when you see the movie in August. Lastly, the ending of the
whole movie. The ending that made me gasp and left my jaw dropped open
for the rest of the movie. It is a pity that many people know it
already and spoiled it for everyone, because thy will not be as
surprised as everybody on the screening when we reached the ending of
the movie. All I gotta tell you is re-watch the whole franchise and
soak in every scene you see.. :) So, this review might not be as long
as you want it, or as detailed as you hoped for. But, all I have to say
is watch the movie. It is way worth your money and your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Most likely, you're not reading this unless you're a fan and already
plan to see the film. And if you are, then know that my review is based
on my fandom and in relation to the series itself. Therefore, it will
be in the context of horror films, slasher films, and more importantly,
the series itself. With that out of the way, who would have though the
fifth film would be the one. Ever since the original, the series has
sort of meandered around, trying to recapture the initial wonder of
death playing the part of a slasher and killing off a group of people. 

Yes, Final Destination 5 is truly the best sequel since the first.
There hasn't been this much tension and creativity since the original,
and practically every scene is filled with an uncomfortable level of
anxiety. This is what the film has truly been missing, whether spoiled
by the trailers before it or just a lack of creativity. For the most
part, Final Destination 3 and 4 (TFD) lacked the necessary level of
creativity and menace that was present in the first film, and even in
the second. However, we have plenty of that here and a few nice twists
as well. While the kills are also pretty ridiculous, most are plausible
and, unlike TFD, should please fans with their level of gore and
brutality.

The filmmaking qualities here reach above the standard the film has
set. It looks great, with plenty of swift and enticing editing that
will make your skin crawl with anticipation. The acting, while still
not of any award winning caliber, or even really all that great, is
decent enough here. The portrayals are more realistic this time around.
While the film had though to settle into the
I-found-the-answers-on-the-internet routine, here we have a smooth flow
in which characters sort of lose their mind trying to figure things
out. And while some might have called the main couple's relationship
cringe worthy, I actually found it to be quite well played out as the
couple has real issues they work through on top of everything that's
going on. Suffice to say, it's nice to see the FD series making better
attempts at developing it's characters. Still not great, but better.

With that said, this is Final Destination, and problems persist.
Despite better attempts at character development, the majority still
play fodder for death's machinations. Sure, we learn a little about
them, but it's not any more than the bare minimum: this guys a jerk,
that girls wild, etc etc. There is also one kill, in particular, that,
while brutal, defies logic. Sure, it's FD, but there is a certain point
of ridiculousness where the line is drawn. The characters trying to
figure out what's going on is also getting old. There's certainly a
reason here, which I won't spoil, why our characters don't know about
what is happening in the same way characters from previous films know.
But this leads to the problem of it being explained too quickly. This
might contradict what I said above, but what I mean is that Tony Todd's
character if far too quick to reveal information and the new twist. In
comparison to FD1, where things had a slow, natural pacing, here we get
a couple death scenes, and explanation, and then more death scenes. The
progression is better, but still not as good as the first two films. 

Fans will truly enjoy this solid sequel. There are a couple twists, and
the final scene will blow everyone away. It's beyond what you would
expect, and very nearly worth seeing the film alone. But with a handful
of creative and brutal twists and a decently put together film, this
should certainly warrant a decent box office and, maybe unfortunately,
another sequel or two.
<|_=00=_|>
This will make you love all the FD films all over again. I saw this
movie opening night and I am so very glad I did. They have stepped up
the quality of the film and the creativity of the deaths. Not since FD2
have I enjoyed one of these films. If you read bad reviews do not trust
them go see it for yourself and you will believe. 

The acting was much better then number 4 not as good as number 2. Just
when you thought you knew what was going to happen you are hit with a
surprise and I was left saying wow. I saw the 2D version of the movie
not really of big fan of 3D. The movie to me had good balance did not
move to slow and the deaths were extremely creative and at times
shocking.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I saw FD5 at its midnight release after purchasing my tickets days
in advance. Yes, I'm that big of a fan; next to Nightmare on Elm
Street, the FD franchise is my favorite. I don't want to make this a
long review, but I will sum up my thoughts on this movie in one word
AMAZING! FD 5 is, IMO, the best installment to the franchise, and in
some cases, surpasses the original. From start to finish, the movie is
full of suspense, tension, excitement, and anticipation. It's enough to
keep ME, someone who has followed this movie's production for the past
year and knew just about everything about the movie going into it, at
the edge of my seat. Yes, I knew who'd die, when they'd die, and how
they'd die even before stepping foot into the theater. But, regardless,
I wasn't let down one bit. This movie, unlike the others (minus the
1st), succeeded in giving character development. The death scenes were
awesome and not too overly fictional, and even managed to throw in a
new rule, "kill or be killed." Which gave a breath of fresh air to the
almost stale plot that we all know of. The premonition scene is
definitely the best of the franchise and the acting was on par. Not
Oscar worthy, but definitely believable for what it is. I just can't
say enough how great this movie is. Now I won't spoil anything for
anyone, but the ending was EPIC! Words can't describe how amazing it
was. Steven Quale did wonders with the use of 3D as well. Should it be
seen in 3D? YES! The film was shot in 3D and Quale knew when to
emphasize the use of it without shoving it in our faces (except for the
extra long title sequence, and credits). Anyways, while I loved this
movie and everything about it, it did have a few things about it that
underwhelmed me. The use of CGI blood was a bit more than I wanted, and
at some points did look a bit fake. Also, some parts of the film were a
bit too comedic. The comedic level should have been toned down for a
particular scene (I'm looking at YOU, Issac.) Other than that, the
movie was fantastic and an excellent installment into the FD family. I
really recommend this movie, but only to those at least knowing what
they are getting themselves into.
<|_=00=_|>
Holy crap! Just finished watching FD5 with my dad. Wow... I don't want
to give away too much but it is definitely the best since the original.
Each death scene is so elaborately planned and when everything falls
into place, the result is...well death. The new twist gives it more of
a plot unlike the past 2 Finals. I also recommend seeing FD5 in 3D. I
haven't seen it in 2D, but I can't see it being the same.

All I will tell you, idk if this is a spoiler or not, but I can never
look at a meat grinder again. Like the things they have at Quiznos and
Jersey Mikes. So many chills and so much suspense in FD5.

Emma Bell also shined in this movie. She's not that stupid dumb blonde
who does nothing in a horror movie. She's a bad-ass.
<|_=00=_|>
Final Destination 5 is the same movie you may have seen four times
prior and of course if you have not then don't bother (with the
exception of the very first film).

FD5 brings one new minor plot device to the series, kill or be killed,
but this isn't nearly enough to distract the viewer from the fact every
other sequence of events unfolds exactly as they have in the previous
films. The acting here isn't anything special at all and the film is so
predictable the only thing you're watching it for is how people die. If
you're a gore-hound I could see you having some enjoyment from this
film but otherwise skip it.

Final Destination has not been reinvigorated with new life, it has no
promising future, and at this point it is simply being created because
it can be "milked" for a decent profit.
