
went to an advanced screening with mom and we were laughing crying and
cheering all over ourselves and with the other moviegoers in the
theater. i mean, seriously we all clapped and jumped out of our seats.
what a treat! the premise is simple: take a self-involved ambitious
businessman and stick him with three talented but hungry baseball
prospects and they end up changing each other for the better. plus, the
cast is superb! Alan Arkin, Bill Paxton and Suraj Sharma, Madhur Mittal
who play their real-life counterparts, wow just wow! 

my family loves sports movies and my mother loves baseball movies in
particular, so seeing this with her on mother's day was perfect. if you
love baseball movies or know kids who love baseball (or any sports for
that matter), Million Dollar Arm is a must-see feel good film. it's The
Rookie meets Hoop Dreams.... go see it
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, Million Dollar Arm is a predictable motivating
sport film from the Disney stable.

Jon Hamm with his flawlessly groomed stubble and cocky grin plays the
haughty sports agent Bernstein with ease. As a groomed smooth talker in
sharply tailored corporate suits, there are few to match Hamm and he
does what is expected of him. The two main characters of the movie are
Suraj Sharma, the star of Life of Pi who plays Rinku and Madhur Mittal,
the older brother in Slumdog Millionaire who plays Dinesh. Both of them
perform their roles very beguilingly and inspire affection from the
crowd. The rest of the supporting cast also perform their roles very
well especially Lake Bell who was very impressive in her cameo role as
Brenda.

I might be a bit biased since I am from India but the comedy in the
movie is hilarious...I found myself laughing throughout the movie
enjoying every moment of it. The direction and editing are also pretty
impressive. In a nutshell, all the elements in the movie combine really
well and the result is a fine movie which has plenty to offer.

So, overall, Million Dollar Arm is a finely made movie which will
impress you despite being predictable and is certainly worth a watch.

My Rating : 8.5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me say I LOVE sports movies. Second, it is rare that I give
any movie higher than a rating of 8. This movie has it all--and it's
not really a "sports" movie.

To begin with, there is a great story. The characters are well
developed and the scenes in India provide just the right background for
what these young men must have gone through in their transformation.
There was more that one heart-jerking moment without ever being
maudlin. I was prepared to give this a lower score because I was sure
the love-interest story was contrived just for the movie, but it turns
out to be true.

Be sure to stay for the credits, which has many "real-life" photos as
well as more scenes from India, and updates on most of the characters.
I was disappointed to see there wasn't a follow-up on Aash who provided
the initial inspiration for the concept, but I'm guessing he/that WAS
created for movie.

While sports movies usually follow a tried-and-true formula, and this
one hones pretty close to that formula, it is still refreshing
nonetheless and quite enlightening. I was not at all familiar with this
story, and am interested in finding out more.

And lastly, how refreshing it is to see a good movie (set in
professional sports, no less) that has NO obscene language. Other
filmmakers, take a look at how successful and enjoyable this movie is
without a profanity laced (or drenched) script.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hollywood's exploration of India based subjects is continuing. I
have been enjoying those. Something quite refreshing which traveling on
a new perspective to entertain the world audience. Especially, this
movie was not a bigger one like 'Slumdog Millionaire' or 'Life of Pi',
but cute emotional family drama like 'The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel'.

It was a biopic-sport-drama about an American sports agent, J. B.
Bernstein, who brought two young fastest arm Indians to the States to
train as the professional baseball pitchers. Before that, he conducts a
reality show called 'Million Dollar Arm' in various Indian locations to
find the perfect one. In the end he gets two and takes back them to the
country. What follows is the cultural collision where these two finds
hard to fit in and perform. With many inspiring lines and tears in our
eyes it comes to the conclusion.

It was a nice story and inspiring. This movie teaches many things like
about family values, sharing culture, hard work for a better future,
having faith, true love and all the above the most deserved second
chance. It was a predictable story. The minor problem with the movie
was it won't explain thoroughly some of the contents it portrays. It is
due to cultural different some will have a hard time to figure it out
the meaning of it. But for South Asians and Indo-American it will be a
perfect movie.

The movie had more than sufficient humorous scenes and many of them
were in an Indian accent. I had a great time laughing for those
comedies. Those comedies are because of the difference pronunciation of
the same word between the people of two countries. The character Amit
is the center of the attract when it comes to the humour. In the other
end, especially in the second half the story drags most of its parts
towards the sentiments. I can't say it was unnecessary, but truly was
impeccable and touching.

''They need to know that you care them''

I never knew this director. After checking out his filmography, yeah, I
have watched many and liked a couple of his movies, especially 'Lars
and the Real Girl'. He did a great job, especially shooting in Indian
summer is not an easy task. He himself told in Q&A meet about his
struggles. All the actors well cooped. John Hamm's one of the best
performances. No doubt he was remarkable.

The boys from 'Slumdog Millionaire' and 'Life of Pi' are the two Indian
characters. Suraj Sharma as Rinku and Madhur Mittal as Dinesh did
justice to the respective roles, though they were not similar kind of
face to the real ones like usually filmmakers choose for a biopic. They
were really good, did key performances alongside John Hamm's JB
character. Lake Bell was a surprised attraction of the movie. I found
her kind of cute in some of the scenes than never before. And other
major attractions were Alan Akin with his usual incredible show in the
small span, and a few others, especially that Indian character called
Amit.

Even before it was released many had criticised it by saying a TV movie
and so 90s. But I had faith in it and watched and it never disappointed
me. I have already said in my many reviews that I love tearjerker
movies, so it was my perfect one. Some mighty one's are releasing on
the same week this movie hitting the screen. I believe this is the only
one pure family drama that one could ask for an alternate. In fact best
by so far in this summer, according to the family friendly films. I
highly recommend it, but all you need is to have a low expectation.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I admit that you could probably predict the course of the movie
just from seeing the trailer. However, this movie makes you forget
about its predictability. The acting was superb, you really feel for
the characters and what they are going through. You want them to
succeed and surpass the adversities. With that being said, this movie
will make you laugh, cry, and smile. It's just one of those feel good
movies. In fact, the entire theatre audibly laughed and cheered on the
boys. This is the first time I've ever seen a theatre audience so
engaged in a movie. I recommend this movie for everyone. If you're
looking for a feel good, charming movie, this is it!
<|_=00=_|>
Regardless of how people say the film was a Disney Film, predictable,
etc, unaware of this true story, all I can say is that I thoroughly
enjoyed the film. Being an Indian student in America, the film
connected me to my culture in India. The background music, the
sentiment, and the portrayal of Indian traditions made me feel
nostalgic of how I miss my home back in India. All I can say is that
watching this movie made me feel like I was in India enjoying this
experience with Rinku and Dinesh! The music was excellent. AR Rahman
killing it as usual! Suraj Sharma has a bright acting future and Amit
looked very cute. Excellent film! Go India!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a pretty big sports fan. Despite this, though, I can be fairly
picky with my sports movies. A few general questions that I always ask.
First, why was this movie made? There are a ton of great moments that
happen in sports, but not all of them deserve movies to made of them.
And along with that, sometimes an ordinary event is glorified in the
movie, which causes you to raise an eyebrow when you learn the actual
events. Next, how faithful is this to the actual events? Yes, I know
this is Hollywood and they are going to change things. But if they
change things too much, it can be a problem. For example, if the actual
person portrayed in the movie doesn't like what Hollywood did with
them, that is a problem. Finally, sports movies can be really cliché
and predictable because there are only really two options for the
ending -- the team/player succeeds in their goal or the team/player
fails, but a lesson is learned. So what else do you bring to the table
that will give your movie substance and avoid being just a cliché
sports movie? 

Going into Million Dollar Arm, I was actually really excited because
Disney had been raving about this movie for quite some time. I'm happy
to report that it passes this test with flying colors. First off, yes
this is a movie that deserved to be made. And no, it's not just an
ordinary event that was glorified. And while I'm at it, it seems pretty
accurate to the actual events. This is a movie about a sports agent
named JB Bernstein. He's in a pretty dire situation and needs to make a
huge splash or else business-wise he is in a lot of trouble. Using Yao
Ming's situation as inspiration, he decides to go on a quest to get the
first Major League Baseball player from India. Just like all of China
followed Yao Ming's journey in the NBA (he made the all-star team even
when he didn't play most of the season because of fan voting in China),
an MLB player from India would be equally as huge with how many people
live there. With this idea in mind, Bernstein sets up the competition
called the Million Dollar Arm, which is essentially a try-out where the
top two throwers would get to come to America with the opportunity of
trying out for an MLB team.

Is this a predictable sports movie? Of course. The events of this movie
took place just a few years back and a quick wikipedia search can tell
you all about these two players. But the point here isn't to throw a
curveball at audiences. The main focus isn't even on telling the world
about an extraordinary event that happened less than a decade ago. It's
all about relationships. Bernstein is a single man that is all business
at first. What he seems to have missed is that he's brought two human
beings halfway across the world just to make a successful business
move. These two Indian boys are still teenagers that have never been
away from home, at least not so far away from home. They are scared,
nervous, alone, and don't even know the language at first. This is an
emotional roller-coaster for everyone involved and watching it unfold
is touching and beautiful.

What makes this movie work is the performances from all the actors.
It's a grand slam performance. Starting from the top, Jon Hamm plays JB
Bernstein and if this movie came out in the fall, I'd say he'd be a
good contender for Best Actor at the Oscars. It'd be a deserving
nomination. Lake Bell plays the neighbor/love interest for JB. She does
a fantastic job as the mediator between JB and the boys, helping JB
come down to earth to treat the boys right. Finally, our two Indian
players, Rinku and Dinesh are played by Indian actors Suraj Sharma and
Madhur Mittal. These two are the stars of the show. From the very
beginning, you become emotionally invested in them and their journey.
You want them succeed. You cheer for them when they perform well. You
are devastated when they slip up. You scream inside at Jon Hamm when he
treats them poorly. You fall in love with Lake Bell when she takes them
in. Sharma and Mittal are fairly new in the acted business; however,
they are not unrecognizable. Sharma plays the lead role of Pi Patel in
Life of Pi and Mittal shows up in Slumdog Millionaire. There's also
other great performances in this movie from the likes of Aasif Mandvi,
Alan Arkin, Bill Paxton and Tzi Ma, but this will suffice.

Overall, Million Dollar Arm is a movie that is a must see in my
opinion. Yes, there are a ton of huge summer blockbusters in the next
month or two that will all fight for your attention, but don't let this
movie slip past you. If for some reason you find yourself tired of all
the huge blockbusters, then this is definitely a movie that you should
check out, because it will be a breath of fresh air. Even if you are
not a sports fan, I think this is a movie that you will love, because
like I said, it's all about the relationships in the movie as opposed
to the historical sporting event that is portrayed. If this movie were
to come out at the end of the year, I would think it would be the type
of movie that contends for an Oscar nomination or two. It's that good.
It will certainly join the ranks of all the great sports movies. My
grade for Million Dollar Arm is a 9/10.

For more reviews like this, go to drogemiester.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
In a spate of recent sports themed movies, all of which were good, I
have to say I consider this one the best. Toss together some baseball
history, an excellent script, terrific casting, great acting, a bit of
the squalor, beauty and toe-tapping music of India and Viola! You end
up with a good film. To try and single out one single actor in this
film I liked the most or was most impressed with is impossible. Every
one was amazing. You don't need to be a baseball fan or even know that
much about the game to appreciate this picture. I and my companion (who
is about as far from a sports-minded person as you could find) for the
viewing were both thrilled with this one. When the people coming out of
the opposite door at the end of the picture smile and say, "Good movie,
wasn't it?" You know you've seen a good movie. There are some I want to
see again.this is one.
<|_=00=_|>
In terms of content, it's hard not to like MILLION DOLLAR ARM. There's
a winning performance from Jon Hamm as the harassed agent trying his
best to re-establish himself, while discovering the importance of
looking after his charges; complemented by Lake Bell as the next- door
neighbor, the intern who understands more about the young Indian boys'
predicament of inhabiting a completely alien culture. As the two boys,
Suraj Sharma and Madhur Mittal are particularly good at communicating -
often through nonverbal means - their sheer bewilderment once they are
transplanted from their rural Indian surroundings to metropolitan Los
Angeles. Although they eventually make a success of their quest to
become major league baseball pitchers, they nonetheless find it
difficult to adapt to alien surroundings.

And yet there is a strong sense in which Craig Gillespie's film serves
to perpetuate rather than negotiate stereotypes about the Indian nation
and its people, and the Americans' responses to it. Hamm's JB is
predictably confused by the disorganized ways in which the Indian
people do business, especially in his interactions with Vivek (Darshan
Jariwala). By implication, therefore, the American (i.e. efficient)
ways, are naturally superior. Meanwhile aging coach Ray (Alan Arkin)
rejects the Indian way of life altogether, as he complains about the
prospect of contracting the so-called "Delhi belly" (an upset stomach),
and returns to America on the first available flight.

Once the Indian boys are transplanted to the United States, they are
frequently used as butts for cheap jokes; there is one scene in a
hotel, where they experience problems with the elevator, which is
particularly orientalist in tone. The film seems not to be aware of
contemporary realities; in economic terms India is no longer a backward
country but gradually becoming an economic superpower in its own right. 

Nonetheless the film does make an effort to recognize the strengths of
Indian cultures; the emphasis on family stability and the ability to
converse contrasts starkly with JB's life, in which he is so busy that
he has little time either to consider marriage or even to talk to
anyone at length. The Indian characters also take time for daily
prayers; the contemplative life is as significant as the active life in
human beings. Perhaps the western world has become too secular to
understand this.

MILLION DOLLAR ARM is an ambivalent piece, at once celebratory of yet
still reluctant to recognize the strength of contemporary Indian
cultures. Yet it's still worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually a very effective movie. It's got some great performances along
with a great script. Its funny at times and keeps you entertained At
times though moments are stretched and it is very predictable. Hamm
gives a good strong performance and Arkin just cracked me up! It's not
the best movie in the world but its worth giving a look. I think down
the road it will be looked at as very underrated and it has a reason.
The reason is that this movie is how a movie should be, a funny, smart,
family drama with good performances and leaves you with a feel good
mood after exiting the theater. Its appropriate for all audiences And
sometimes thats all a movie needs.
