
I came into ParaNorman with a sense of cautious optimism. I absolutely
adore stop motion animation, and I genuinely fell in love with
Coraline, LAIKA's previous effort, but the trailers for the film didn't
capture my interest in the story in the way I hoped they would and this
film also didn't have the benefit of being helmed by the brilliant
Henry Selick (Nightmare Before Christmas, James and the Giant Peach,
Coraline). That being said, I am extremely happy to report that
ParaNorman absolutely delivers on every level you could hope for. 

ParaNorman tells a story about a young boy named Norman who has the
unusual ability to see and talk to the dead, an ability which has led
him to be ostracized by the other members of his community, including
his own family. The New England town in which he lives is famous for a
historic witch execution, along with the legend of a curse that the
witch put upon those who sentenced her to death. It turns out that the
legend of the curse is true, and that Norman, with his ability to talk
to the dead, is the only one who can prevent the curse from raising the
dead. Unfortunately, Norman is unable to act fast enough and the
Witch's curse begins to wreak havoc on the town. 

ParaNorman is a film with many strengths. Stop motion animation is
always a beautiful and fascinating process, and with new technological
advances the filmmakers have been able to bring it to a level of detail
and expression that are simply astounding. While the scope of the story
may be smaller than something like Coraline or Nightmare Before
Christmas, the scale of the stop motion sets for this town are truly
incredible. The film absolutely immerses you in this world that feels
like a living, breathing, place. As beautiful as the animation in Brave
was, ParaNorman is easily the most visually impressive film I have seen
this year. 

As beautiful as the film is, it never falls into the trap of so many
other animated films by simply being visual spectacle with no narrative
soul. The story of the film is fun, intelligent, and heartfelt, and is
supported by a great cast of characters. The odd kid who is
misunderstood is a common trope in kids' movies, but what makes Norman
stand out is that he's never mopey about it. He is ostracized, bullied,
and rejected, but he's come to a kind of acceptance about the whole
thing. He's certainly not happy about it, but at this point he's not
trying to fit in, he's really just trying to keep his head down and get
through the daily grind. This is part of what makes his relationship
with the other characters in the film work so well. For instance Neil
genuinely accepts Norman for who he is and it's obvious that this
throws Norman for a loop and he doesn't really know how to interact
with someone who "gets him." This is never spoken, but it plays out
naturally through the performances of the characters. 

As the narrative progresses it takes some really interesting turns, and
at times is genuinely surprising and emotional. Without spoiling
anything, I'll just say that a large part of the narrative revolves
around assumptions and misunderstanding, and it brilliantly uses the
audience's assumptions and expectations about the genre and its
conventions against them. 

It's also worth mentioning that this is one of the rare films which
decidedly benefits from the addition of 3D. There's some fun play with
perspective, and being able to see the dimension that exists in these
sets adds a lot to the experience. 

I genuinely loved ParaNorman and it's easily one of my favorite films
this year. It's not a movie for everyone, but if any of the trailers
gave you even a glimmer of interest I would definitely recommend
checking this one out. LAIKA is certainly beginning to make a name for
themselves in the animation scene and I'm really looking forward to
whatever their next project will be. I think I still prefer Coraline
which definitely benefited from the combination of Neil Gaiman's
fantastic story and Henry Selick's experienced hand, but ParaNorman is
a truly fantastic film and it's definitely worth a look. 

A-
<|_=00=_|>
This was a rather surprising movie. It's unlike any other modern 
animated movie and picks a new sort of approach, that should work 
entertaining for both adults and kids.

There is plenty of 'simple' stuff to enjoy for young kids in this movie 
but also the adults shall have no complaints about it. Throughout the 
years animated movies often had both stuff for both kids and adults to 
enjoy in this movie but I feel that the line dividing the two different 
forms of entertainment is getting more and more blurry. Instead the two 
things more often get effectively combined, with as a result more and 
more movies get released that aren't being too childish for adults or 
too mature for little kids. It's being perfect entertainment for just 
about everybody!

I do admit though that I was a bit surprised to see how horror 
orientated this movie was. Make no mistake about it, this is a horror 
movie. It might be a bit frightening for some children but obviously 
most shall be perfectly capable of handling it. Fantasy and movies can 
be a great outlet and also stimulant for children's imagination, this 
also includes horror orientated stuff. After all, most kids are of 
course perfectly capable of making a distinction between real stuff and 
fantasy.

And I do applaud this movie for not being overly fluffy or careful and 
protective toward children. Not that that this is being a completely 
dark, or scary, depressing movie to watch but overall it's being a tad 
bit more dark and daring than just an average animated movie.

It's really having a style and approach of its own, which just doesn't 
goes for its story or the fact that this is being a more genuine horror 
flick but also really for its comedy and characters. The characters all 
feel rich and very much alive (yes, even the dead characters!) and the 
humor is more clever and often dialog orientated, as opposed to having 
characters jumping around and falling and bumping into stuff. In that 
regard this movie also feels far more mature than just the average 
genre attempt.

And another important aspect about an animated movie; it's a really 
good looking one! It's using stop-motion techniques and it shows that 
this genre is far from outdated or dead. It's really something that 
gives the movie an unique look and feel. I don't know, it's perhaps 
pleasant that it's being something that allows the movie to feel 'fake' 
and true exaggerated fantasy-like, as opposed to CG animated movies, 
that are getting more and more smooth and realistic to watch.

It's also a movie with a great underlying message in it, that tells you 
it's OK to be different and there is nothing weird or wrong about it 
and you shouldn't just judge a book on its cover. It's still too bad 
this message was lost on some people and I'm talking about those who 
had a problem with its ending. It was perfectly suitable and fitted 
perfectly into what this entire movie was trying to tell you for the 
first hour and a half.

A surprisingly good movie in about every regard, that above all things 
is being perfectly fun and entertaining to watch!

8/10


<|_=00=_|>
ParaNorman looks like a throwback to the good old campy stop-motion
animated films. The concept may not sound so original, but the designs
and the themes of the story are the main appeal here. The movie is fun
and wonderful to look at. While it goes through a crazy adventure
comedy, there is a surprising twist that made this so endearing. It is
something that we don't usually see in an animated film, but because of
that we intend to love it. ParaNorman is funny, creepy, smart, and
affecting.

ParaNorman is oddly different as an animated family film. Unlike the
others, this one has a dark and mature context, but by sentimental
means. Although the story is about spirits and zombies, the true core
of this film is the emotion and the message that it is trying to show
us. There's a couple of moments that are quite affecting. Usually is
when Norman is being alone in his gloomy life. In other parts, the film
is ought to be funny. The comedy sometimes feel way apart from the
drama, but they still work anyway.

The stop-motion animation indeed looks marvelous. These little figures
really brought themselves to life as their voice actors provide their
personalities. The campiest part, the zombies, are quite impressive to
look at. It's undeniably solid. The music score sure knows which part
is suppose to be gloomy, campy, or just ordinary. It's a great effect
to the scenes and you'll love it. The rest of the movie is all
ridiculous and fun little set pieces that are entertaining enough to
enjoy.

ParaNorman is surprisingly strong. The depth of the story made this
movie so special. It's still filled with comedy and lightheartedness.
In the end, it turns out to be endearing. It's a rare kind of family
film that is brave to show what it wanted to show. It might be hard for
some to understand its sentiment, but if there's anything else why
anyone would like this film then it's because of its majestic
animation. ParaNorman is simply great and it's easy enough to
recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Focus Features has only had two animated films up to this point; the
beautifully crafted, but story-lacking 9, and of course the gorgeous
and creepy Coraline. Now, this studio's third animated film gives us
both a funny and creepy story about a town under siege by zombies and
an ancient witch's curse. It's one of the best movies of the late
summer, and should easily compete for at the Academy Awards for Best
Animated Film. 

The film in itself is split into two sections. The first shows Norman,
an out-of-place kid in a small New England town who has the ability to
talk to ghosts. Since he has no real friends, he doesn't mind the
undead. He's picked on at school for being different, and we see that
whenever another person, like the geek Neil, wants to be friends with
him, he tries to push them away. Norman's older sister, and Neil's
older brother are the stereotypical cheerleader and football jock, and
they torment Norman as well. And then we have the school bully; every
film seems to have them these days. 

The second part of the film sees Norman become an unlikely hero after a
witch's curse raises the dead back to life and all chaos breaks loose.
There are some creepy moments, but the characters are always cracking
off one-liners according to the situation, so it kept the film funny as
well as adrenaline pumping. The only thing I didn't like about the
story was the climax. It's not that I didn't like it, it's just that it
felt sort of phoned in. Overall, the voice acting is great, the
animation is superb as always, and the 3D remarkably works well. I was
expecting a great movie, and I got it with this film. It may be a
little too scary for kids under the age of 10, but everyone else should
have a blast. I hope this film does well, and I can't wait to see what
Focus Feature's next big animated project will be. 

Final Verdict: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Without spending too much time discussing the plot, this movie is
essentially a film about a misfit kid who ultimately must save the town
that has misunderstood and mistreated him for most of his life. Yes,
Norman sees dead people. However, everyone is aware of Norman's claim
of this power and they either ridicule him (other kids) or are ashamed
of his seemingly wild claim and erratic behaviour. Of course Norman's
extra-sensory powers will soon be required to rid the town of a curse.
The resulting events make for a great story and film.

There are several themes in this film that were well developed and
ultimately resolved to my satisfaction. The animation is incredible,
and I loved the creative camera shots that the director(s) chose in
many scenes: much more advanced than the usual animated film. 

I took 2 children to see this movie, a 6-year old girl and a (near) 4
boy. The kids loved the comedic zombie scenes in particular and were
laughing out loud for much of it. They were frightened in other parts
but in a functional thematic way, not to the point of nightmares.
However I did note that some of the deeper themes went right over the
kids' heads, and while they weren't too bothered by this fact, I advise
that children over 8 might enjoy the film more fully.

The climax of the film is beautifully animated, and very poignant. On
the whole a great film. I would state only that the humour surrounding
the zombies was hilarious for adults and children alike, and I would
have included more of it. Certainly this film is worth the admission. I
saw it in 3D, it wasn't mind-blowing 3D but it certainly gave the film
more texture.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, like most "kids" movies, it had it's corny, funny, sometimes just
plain silly parts, but... Paranorman left me pleasantly surprised.
First and foremost, if you didn't like this movie because you compared
it to Caroline, that's your problem. This movie stands well on its own
and it's completely unfair to make comparisons. By the time the movie
had finished, the beauty of it shone through and, without hesitation, I
would say it stands up very well against "blockbuster" films designed
for mature audiences. It's neither vulgar or obscene, but there are a
few parts in the movie that will go straight over the youngster's heads
but you will most certainly get it if you're over the age of thirty and
haven't been living in a cave. If you take your kid(s) to see this, be
ready; there are a few intense scenes that might have them a little
frightened. Regarding the poor guy who didn't want to see the
Expendables 2, I didn't see it, either, but I sure heard it. They
poorly placed this movie the very next theater over from it.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been numerous stop motion animation films but only a handful
have really stepped up to deliver something special. Coraline was one
of those films that delivered unique characters along with a
beautifully strange world like no other. Their latest ParaNorman looks
to continue this tradition but turning to the ever popular world of
zombies and horror. Can it deliver another new unique vision in this
style or will it just end up being another generic animated film?

ParaNorman follows a misunderstood boy who is able to speak to the
dead. When the town is over thrown by zombies, a witches curse, and an
angry mob it's up to him to push his abilities to the limit to save
them all. This film not only delivers something new and different with
an almost played out genre, it manages to stand out and entertain on
numerous levels. Featuring an all-star voice cast of Casey Affleck,
Kodi Smit-McPhee, Tempestt Bledsoe, John Goodman, Anna Kendrick, Leslie
Mann, Christopher Mintz-Plasse who step into their roles and bring
these fun characters to creepy life. While this seems to be an animated
kid's film, this was clearly made with all ages in mind. There are
moments that some would deem not so kid friendly, but still manages to
maintain its place among an almost all ages film. The animation is
awesome with some strange character and set design that only adds to
the originality and fun of this film. This film is formatted like an
actual zombie film, but then takes some twists and turns to take it
someplace new. The story is dark and fun all at once and will easily
keep both adults and kids entertained. There are some classic monster
movie moments that adults will appreciate as well as some subject
matter that is a bit glossed over, but clearly takes a momentary step
out of the family film.

This is easily not only one of the best stop-motion films to come along
in some time; it's one of the best animated films. ParaNorman delivers
in every way filled with comedy, horror, and action all wrapped up in a
strange twisted visual tale that you will not soon forget.

http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
<|_=00=_|>
I love it. It answers the question, what happens when you put THE
BREAKFAST CLUB, NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD and EVIL DEAD in a blender.
You get this awesome movie from the makers of CORALINE. In a world
dominated by CGI movies, this one is a breath of fresh air (the same
applies to the upcoming film FRANKENWEENIE by Tim Burton). We have
people with different personalities: the weirdo, the show-off bully,
the cheerleader, the not-so-bright jock and the silly geek. Just like
THE BREAKFAST CLUB, but they have to get along in order to survive,
just like in NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD. Also, a book is involved in it.
A book just like in EVIL DEAD. There is a lot of thrills, chills (lots
of them), and laughs (splattered (excuse the pun) here and there).
Family appropriate? Of course! What do you think? A kid would be caught
dead with an R-rated zombie film with over the top gore. It does a
great job spoofing the genre. Give it a watch, I recommend it, it might
prepare your kids into watching classic horror films (of course you
know, viewer discretion is advised). Bottom line: It's good, give it a
watch! Rated PG for scary images and some adult references, that might
go over the heads of children under 13.
