
In all honesty I can't remember the first film that well, so I found it
hard to compare to the sequel. On the other hand this film is
completely memorable and so enjoyable.

I saw the preview and I absolutely loved it. I was worried that all the
good bits were in the adverts but the film was full of exciting and
hilarious parts that aren't in the advert. 

The minions are so funny, I was actually crying with laughter at some
parts. In fact, I enjoyed it so much I am taking my little brother to
see it again (mainly so I can see it again! Hehe) 

The characters are lovable, hate able, and hilarious, the film has
evolved from the first one (from what I can remember) and its such a
heart warming family film.

I COMPLETELY Recommend THIS FILM :)
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film this morning and found it very enjoyable. I
can't really remember the 1st so I can't really compare. 

Despicable Me 2 is a fast paced, funny, feel good film that keeps you
entertained from the 1st minute to the last. The pace of the film moves
along nicely and keeps the audience attention very well. It has many
laugh out loud moments, a decent mix of children humour and adult
humour. 

The main character Gru (voiced by Steve Carell)is likable and funny.
The minions however are the main stars, they had me laughing on
multiple occasions during the film. The language created for the
minions is very well done as they speak in a fictional language but you
can always gather what they are saying.

I found the visuals very impressive, it was very colourful and very
imaginative. The action scenes we also very well done.

Would definitely recommend seeing this, no matter what your age. I am
22 and thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It's not just for kids!
<|_=00=_|>
It's not often that a hit animated film's sequel surpasses the original
film. Despicable Me 2 is one of those rare cases. From the moment it
appears on the screen to the end of the film, Despicable Me 2 is a fast
paced, fun film that never ceases to be entertaining.

This film has you laughing quite often, contains humour that both kids
and adults can appreciate, and had at least one moment that was worthy
of clapping out loud to.

The character development is to be praised, as is the warmth and soul
that Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud put into this film.

This film leaves you feeling joyful and satisfied and happy for the
characters and the new direction their lives are taking.

This film is not to be missed and I can't recommend it enough.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Despicable Me was a wonderful film, so while there is the
worry of whether a sequel would work you can't help wanting to see it
anyway. Despicable Me 2 was just as good as the first one, maybe not as
fresh in terms of plot but what worked so well in the first works
equally well here. The animation, also having the advantage of staying
true to the style and look that the first had, is bursting with
vibrancy and colour without looking too over-saturated as well as
having a lot of detail to it. The retro-futuristic designs and gadgets
are inventive and very striking to look at, while the music has rousing
energy and is also memorable. Despicable Me 2 in the writing and gags
is peppered with humour, and this is of the laugh-out-loud hilarious
kind, though because there's a lot and that you may be laughing so hard
you may be at a risk of missing something. To counter-balance the
hilarity, the film also incorporates a message, it is a heartfelt one
and doesn't feel cloying and out-of-place. For what the story may lack
slightly in freshness in correlation with the first, it more than makes
up for it in wit, heart, excitement and how briskly it moves without
feeling rushed. Having more of the minions- one of the best assets of
the first film- was a masterstroke also, and their subplot also gave
the story an increasing sense of jeopardy and threat(though theirs is a
little more interesting than that of world domination). Gru is a
lovable character, whether a villain like in the first or not, and adds
a lot of charisma and energy to the film. The top-notch vocal talents
of Steve Carrell, Steve Coogan, Kristen Wiig, Benjamin Bratt and even
Russell Brand are a further advantage. All in all, like the first
Despicable Me this sequel is fantastic family fun and equal to it. 9/10
Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the cinema preview with my friend for this movie, and its
even better than the first film! I only saw the first film recently,
and I really liked it. I wasn't sure I wanted to go and see the film at
first, but my mate wanted me to go and see the preview yesterday with
him, and reluctantly, I said yes. Usually, the second films aren't
better than the first, but boy was I wrong! I was laughing through out
the whole film, and so was everyone in the audience, it was full to!
Steve Carrell's character, Gru, was hilarious. I think everyone could
agree though, the minions were the best characters in the film. My
friend told me the directors made up a little language and did the
voices, and I was very impressed, for you could hear a hint of English
in every word they said. 

So, if you have seen the first film and liked it, don't hesitate to go
and see it when it officially come out on the 28th June. And if you
haven't seen the first film, why not?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Despicable Me 2 in the cinema and when i left i did not like it
all that much. If i do not take to a film on the first watch then i am
unlikely to change my opinion on subsequent views. This film is one of
the rare exceptions. I have many 'perhaps' reasons of not liking it the
first time from spoilers to mood changes. Well that in neither here nor
there. I decided to see it just to pass time after a strenuous day at
college followed by work. And i was blown away. Then i saw it again
yesterday and it was even better. 

It has its goal set out from the very start. It is family entertainment
in and out. And great family entertainment. 

It is contemporary ingenuity coupled with zany cartoony fantasy to
produce a feature that is so much fun and so exciting. It is the first
animated feature in a long time to move away from serious or emotion
filled animation and instead aim for the imaginative wild completely
unrealistic feel and fun of the cartoons of yore. That is a great thing
as it feels like something new and in this case new is awesome. I adore
emotion filled animation but sometimes you just need to smile and laugh
and laugh some more with crazy comedic toon antics and this film
provides that. The animation is so colorful and delightful, so pleasing
to the eye in its adorableness. 

Whoever imagined the minions needs to be awarded a medal. They are the
most adorable, most cute, most sweet, most pure laugh and smile
inducing creations to grace animation in a long time. They made me
laugh out wildly and smile all through the film until my cheeks were
hurting and i felt like bursting with pure happiness. They are just fun
and amazing. Oh and they sing too, hilariously.

The films posters said as their tagline "The Spy who Lover Her'. An
obvious reference to the James Bond flick, The Spy Who Loved Me. So
obviously espionage and spy craziness is thrown in for a satisfying
story. A story that in fact feels like an updated cartoon version of an
exaggerated James Bond film of the the 70's and 80's. 

Gru really is an amazing father and his relationship with the girls is
something very precious. I like how family dynamic is explored in this
film. Rarely do we have films of adopted children coming into a new
family dynamic. The last time i saw that type of dynamic was in Tarzan
in 1999 before seeing it once more in the prequel to this film. The
girls are just great in this film. Agnes who is just so adorable wishes
for a mother and Gru sees that and he can see it is saddening her. Gru
is also lonely and goes out into the dating world resulting in
hilarious consequences and sweet surprises.

Agent Lucy Wilde, nice pun since she is a huge dose of wild fun, is
just a great character addition that adds to the looniness and
excitement of it all. She is so weird in the best way possible, quirky,
funny and absolutely amazing. She is a remarkable character. And her
vivid personality just adds to the sweetness and captivating charm of
this film. Thus she provides the perfect romantic lead for Gru.

Pharell Williams needs applause for the music. The songs are just so
upbeat and fun and in the distinct style of Mr Williams. They are just
so warm and the animated sequences accompanying them are just
marvelous, fun and dream like. Adding to the smiles galore of the film. 

It is a film for the family and the hilarious humor is divided into
slapstick hilarity that adults too will thoroughly love, some jokes
that will go over kids heads and some really sensational references
mostly aimed at adults such as The Spy Who Loved Me and many more
including other James Bond references and references to Star Wars, The
Lord of the Rings, The Incredibles, Get Smart as well as The Matrix and
Superman among others.

I feel this film will become what the film Up is to me. A film so
sweet, so heartwarming and imaginative and so smile inducing that it
will just keep getting more amazing with further views as the years go
by and become an absolute all time favorite. 

I like that they mix humor with sweet awkward and adorable romance.
Then they stir in the Minion Factor of pure awesomeness. Toss in great
gags and action packed and imaginative excitement. Sprinkle some
sweetness and finally folding in a dollop of fun. A very fun movie for
everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
The ex-villain Gru is raising his daughters Margo, Edith and Agnes and
researching a legitimate jelly and jam business with Dr. Nefarion and
the minions. Meanwhile, a laboratory in Arctic is stolen by a powerful
aircraft using magnetism. The Anti-Villain league (AVL) agent Lucy
Wilde recruits Gru to help her agency to discover who has stolen the
laboratory and its research. They know that the thief has a store in a
mall, and Gru suspects that the owner of the Mexican restaurant Salsa &
Salsa, Eduardo Perez, may be the villain El Macho that is presumed dead
in an accident. 

"Despicable Me 2" is a delightful family entertaining. Who can resist
to Gru, Agnes and the minions? And now, with Margo growing up and
interested in boys and the clumsy but heartwarming Lucy Wilde, it is a
great fun for the whole family. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Meu Malvado Favorito 2" ("My Favorite Wicked 2")
<|_=00=_|>
i wanted to love it... i really did... i love the first one... told
many about it... clearly lots of people saw it after it's theatrical
run and are excited for part 2... but i saw it last night and it is a
little dull... story is weak... predictable...

spoilers the main plot is that gru has to find a villain so gru's a
good guy now... that's about it... not a bad idea but most of the movie
is him stuck in a mall looking for this villain who is one of the shop
owners... just not that interesting... and obvious and it just doesn't
feel like a lot is at stake.

he points to the actual bad guy immediately... we all know this is the
dude but the movie keeps going... the bad guy is kind of boring and not
much is done... he's pretty generic... the villain (beyond gru) in the
first one was so much better.

the oldest daughters thing for boys is cute... kristen wiig's character
is fun and while their romance is obvious it's still OK the minions
save the day... i mean the film.

not a bad sequel at all... still funny... carell and wiig are great...
movie's just a little dull
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this film, but to be honest, it wasn't
all that amusing. It made me smile a couple of times, but no real
chuckles. The story was a little messy. Gru wasn't as convincing.
Neither were his interactions with some of the new characters. Pure
good doesn't suit him very well. The minions weren't as funny - in
fact, they were a little annoying - and the villain's master plan was
rubbish. 

The graphics were okay, but visibly low budget (compared to Pixar's
Brave, for instance). It was as disappointing as one must expect from a
sequel.

If you don't have anything better to do and just want to be mildly
entertained for 98 minutes, go for it. Otherwise, just re-watch the
original Despicable Me, it was a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
I totally fell in love with Despicable Me. It's probably going to be on
my list of Ten Best Films, so naturally I awaited with eagerness the
premiere of Despicable Me 2. I watched all the trailers, teasers and
Mini Movies with Minions - loved them all. Then I watched the film in
full 3D.

Oh dear...

I always thought that there might be a problem with transforming Gru
from a villain into a good guy, and I was right. Half of the humour in
the original film was based on the fact that Gru is not a nice person.

Unfortunately, he has now been sanitized, virtually recreated as a good
suburban father, albeit with some extremely strange habits.

Two of the best protagonists from the original film were ignored:
Vector, last seen on the Moon with a polythene helmet on his head, and
Dr. Nefario, who vanished for 95% of Despicable Me 2. Even Gru's
mother, who had some wonderful cameo appearances in the original, was
visible only once.

So, continuity from Film 1 to Film 2 - virtually none.

One of the great charms of the original film were the incredible
inventions: the Farter Blaster thing, the Anti-gravity Serum, the
boogie robots... This time there was nothing to take their place.

With Vector and Pointy-haired Man from the Bank of Evil Gru had worthy
opponents, but the villain of this film was an absolute non-entity - I
can't even recall his name without looking it up. All of the tension
and interplay between the characters in the first film were missing in
this one.

Another of the highlights of the first film was the music.
Unfortunately, the soundtrack this time was completely forgettable,
with the exception of a reprise of one of the songs from the original -
Pretty Girls, I think it was called. Something like that... I was a bit
busy yawning to note exactly which of the good songs it was. I just
made a mental note and then went back to being slightly bored again.

Yes, I enjoyed it, for a given value of "enjoy". Who could help but
enjoy watching those darling little minions? But I left the cinema
feeling cheated: Despicable Me deserved a better sequel, better music,
a better story line and far better characterisation.

I'm wavering between 5/10 and 6/10, but I'll plump for 6/10 because I
actually liked the 3D effects. Without them I'd probably plump for 5/10
