
Just got back from an advanced screening that was the (according to the
director) first screening seen by people outside of the cast/crew of
the movie. Overall I was very impressed, having never read the book I
did not really know what to expect. Acting was good, nothing Oscar
worthy but no poor performances. Everyone did their job well,
especially Benjamin Walker and Dominic Cooper. They both excelled in
their roles as Lincoln and Henry respectively. Plot flowed well and was
easy to follow, and the action was absolutely fantastic. It was over
the top, fast paced, bloody, and very well done. If you don't mind
seeing vampires getting hacked, slashed, and bashed to death in a wide
variety of ways, you'll enjoy this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is exactly what you would expect from
the title. A ridiculous, over-the-top, and fun action-horror flick. The
serious tone and silly premise may turn off some people, but the
serious tone actually works to the films advantage and actually made
the movie more fun. I actually think a goofy and comedic tone could've
hurt the films in some ways by being a bit too tongue and cheek. The
action scenes were well done and incredibly entertaining to watch. The
final action scene was actually worth the price of admission alone. I
also enjoyed how they included actual parts of Lincoln's history into
the film. Benjamin Walker also surprisingly did a good job as Lincoln.
The dialogue is corny but I actual think that played as a strength to a
film rather than a weakness. The 3D effects are also used very well in
the film and delivers a good mix of depth and gimmicky moments and
really enhanced the action sequences. I would highly recommend seeing
the film in 3D if you have the option. If I had any complaints it would
be that I did feel like the film dragged a bit in the middle.

Overall, Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is a fun flick that delivers
on exactly what it promises. Abraham Lincoln kicking vampire ass! If
you don't go in holding the films premise against it, than you'll have
a blast with it!
<|_=00=_|>
I too was a skeptic of the title. I got to watch the movie and was
surprised by how quickly it hooked me. Cast and director make
characters believable and story plausible. Benjamin Walker does a
superb job of playing Lincoln. He really makes the character come to
life. Great mix of fantasy and reality. The story respects Lincoln the
man and Lincoln the president. If your a history buff you won't be
disappointed. The movie moves along at a good pace. Plenty of action.
The director does a fine job of making a believable story of one of the
greatest and most beloved presidents in American history. A lot of the
scenes and camera shots are unique and really bring you into the story
instead of just being a bystander. The group I was with really enjoyed
the movie. The time spent suspending belief is well worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Supposedly, the beginnings of Vampires in America and a story about
Honest Abe (Benjamin Walker) as he hunts them down before becoming our
16th president. 

I had no idea who Benjamin Walker is. Anyone? Yes, I suspected, but had
never heard the truth that Abraham Lincoln was a Vampire Hunter..until
now. And, now you will too, if you watch this movie. I can hear you
asking, "is it all true" Well, of course, it is. Hollywood wouldn't
make up something if it weren't true now, would they? And, yes, they
are finally admitting the truth about Edgar Allen Poe being a detective
who wrote poems on his stake-outs. But, on to Abe..as a Vampire
Hunter.

But first, before you turn away from this one, let me tell you of
2-scenes that are worth your time. The first one is a battle between
Abe and Vampire Jack Barts (Marton Csokas) on horses in a horse
stampede. Yes, that's right. In a horse stampede. The way this was done
was nothing short of fantastic and you will ask yourself " how in the
world did they do this?" The second one is near the end on a burning
bridge the train is crossing. Unbelievable how they did this. Again,
you will ask yourself "how in the world did they do this?" They took
CGI to a new level. You will be talking about these two scenes for a
long time. Kudos, kudos and kudos again. 

The entire production, photography, dialogues were all first rate as
were the actors within. The music was spot on especially with the train
near the end chug-chugging in time with the beat. Excellent.

Yes, there is some gore as Abe settles in to become the Vampire Hunter
we know and love, and his weapon of choice is an Axe. Hey, he was a
rail-splitter at one time. Keep up.

Abe is befriended by Henry (Dominic Cooper) who teaches him how to kill
Vampires. But, waitHenry has a secret.

The main villain Vampire is Adam played by Rufus Sewell and he is
always good. And, we learn how the battle for Gettysburg was really
won. Yes, the North won but now you will learn how they did it. Never
before told.

One more thing: finally, someone decided on a Mary Todd Lincoln (Mary
Elizabeth Winstead) who is easy on the eyes. Good choice. And, yes,
Benjamin Walker makes a good Lincoln especially with the beard later on
in the movie. 

It's true, I didn't want to see this movie much less do a review on it.
A friend I won't name (Russ) recommended it and thanks to him I
discovered the truth and it set me free. Now, I know all. Will you?
(7/10)

Violence: Throughout Sex: No. Gore: Yes, there is some. Nudity: Yes,
quick shot of a dead woman with a breast exposed. Language: Only two
f-bombs were heard. Otherwise no language at all. (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
As a Brit, my knowledge of Abraham Lincoln is limited to stovepipe hat
and beard, the Civil War, abolition of slavery, and assassination at
the theatre by John Wilkes Booth. I had absolutely no idea that he had
enjoyed a career (prior to his entry into politics) as a vampire
slayer, nor that there had been a large contingent of vampires within
the Confederate army. Thank heavens Lincoln left behind his notebook,
or we'd never have known.

Benjamin Walker, an actor I have never heard of, but who looks very
much like a young Liam Neeson, plays young Lincoln (and, with old
makeup and a sticky-on beard, old Lincoln) in a batch of preposterous
nonsense in which our hero become expert at whirling around a
silver-bladed axe, surviving horrific physical trauma, decapitating
vampires, chatting up Mary Elizabeth Winstead, starting the Civil War,
and melting down everyone's silver into musket balls in order to defeat
the 1st Confederate Vampire Infantry Regiment. In this he is assisted
by a decent roster of support including Dominic Cooper, Rupert Sewell,
the afore-mentioned Miss Winstead, Anthony Machie and Jimmi Speed.

All those involved play this nonsense with an absolutely straight face
- indeed, it would not work if they played it tongue in cheek - but,
notwithstanding the seriousness with which the characters are
portrayed, and the slow motion decapitations and vampiric (black) blood
sprays, this film is a romp. Like director Timur Bekmambetov's earlier
Wanted, it is an unexpected and exuberant batch of utter twaddle, made
with an almost palpable glee. And, also like Wanted, it features some
beautifully choreographed and eye-boggling action.

This movie is hugely enjoyable and absolutely daft. And the 3D is often
very effective.
<|_=00=_|>
When I discovered this movie, skepticism washed over me. I mean,
Abraham Lincoln as a vampire hunter? Having one of the greatest
presidents of all time as the character of a vampire hunter would be
the last thing anyone would expect. When I entered the theater, my
initial thought was that this movie would bring me disappointment. But
it turned out to be much better than expected and a fun film filled
with lots of violence, blood, gore, and vampire decapitations.

So, in the film adaptation of Seth Grahame-Smith's fantasy novel,
Abraham Lincoln is a vampire hunter. But before he becomes that, he's
just an ordinary boy living in a world consumed by slavery. One night,
his mom died from an undiscovered disease and from then on, he's waited
and searched for his mom's killer, only to discover a new large world
of vampires. There he becomes a vampire hunter under the guidance of
Henry Sturges (who has a secret).

However, his vampire hunting career reaches a hiatus in the middle of a
movie where Abraham is now interested in pursuing a career in politics.
In the end, he becomes the President of the United States, only to have
his career troubled by the devastating Civil War where vampires play a
part in it somehow. In the 20 or so minutes that focus on his
presidency, I felt there was an issue with it as it shifted the focus
of vampire hunting and focused on politics and the Civil War instead as
nothing about vampires was stated during this 20 minutes.

The vampires are led by a leader named Adam. Although he might appear
to be the strongest, I felt that the vampire John Barts (killer of
Abraham's mother) was actually the main antagonist of the film and
represented a bigger threat. While Adam had a lengthy climax, the fight
with John Barts was much longer and was more personal as only the two
of them were involved and more engaging. The scene also displayed more
of the abilities possessed by a vampire.

Talking about action scenes, they were all great and fantastic. They
were energetic, full of blood, full of gore, extremely violent, and
dead brutal. Most of them feature decapitations of the vampires and
anyone seeking brutality, deadliness, blood, gore, and violence should
be satisfied with the action scenes provided here. But what I noticed
in the action scenes, particularly the Lincoln-Barts fight and parts of
the climax, was that it was quite unclear. In the Lincoln-Barts fight,
the two were in a sandy place with many horses galloping. I felt that
there was too much sand flying around and the fight became unclear and
a bit brownish. This made it hard to see what was going on. It might
intentionally done like that to give it more of an old feeling but it
may also be a distraction because you don't know what's going on. The
same happened in parts of the climax but this time, smoke and sparks
caused it.

The script was a bit uneven. While the second half of the film was a
bit better, I felt that the first half of the film was a bit lacking in
dialog. There was little talk and there was too many decapitations,
blood, and gore. I felt that the scenes progressed too fast and they
should have taken it more patiently. In fact, most of the talk in the
first part of the film comes from Abraham, due in part to the narration
of fragments of his diary. The others rarely talk and probably only
talk so little and it's only by the second half that they talk more.
However, the performances by the actors were okay, not too terrible to
burden the overall movie experience.

I also felt there was a bit of a disaster with the make-up. Since the
time in the story spans from Abraham's early adulthood to his fifties,
we could clearly see a change in his facial appearance (a beard). We
can also see this change with Abraham's friend Joshua Speed. The same
cannot be said with Abraham's wife Mary Todd, and Abraham's other
friend Will Johnson. Mary Todd doesn't appear to change with the
exception of very few creases on her face whereas Will Johnson doesn't
have a change in appearance at all. His face is exactly the same his
hair didn't even turn white. 

However, the 3D was excellent. It takes you and makes you part of the
scenes and is recommended although some of the scenes would make the 3D
a nuisance. But other scenes where there is blood will be enhanced by
the 3D and some of the blood may even squirt out to your face. And the
visual effects! Oh they're such a wonder. But of course, impressive
visual effects and eye-catching stunts would be what you would expect
from a movie directed by Timur Bekmambetov.

Overall, "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" is a film that offers
moviegoers a fun time with plenty of bloody and gory action sequences
filled with eye-catching stunts, impressive visual effects and
excellent 3D effects. Despite the interesting plot, the film is downed
by some poor unclear shots, an uneven script that mostly focused on
action, not on dialog, and poor make-up. Regardless, "Abraham Lincoln:
Vampire Hunter" is a movie you should see if you want a bloody fun
time.

Rating: 7/10 

Final Verdict: Despite the uneven script, some poor unclear shots, and
poor make-up, "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter" promises moviegoers a
bloody fun time with gory action scenes, eye-catching stunts,
impressive visual effects, and excellent 3D effects with an interesting
and somehow peculiar plot line.
<|_=00=_|>
It's funny how I created an account for this website just to tell
people how awful this movie was. I had the benefit of seeing this movie
before it came out last night at my work, and even I felt like I was
being cheated out of time and money. I can't imagine paying to see this
film. 

Now, obviously I wasn't expecting a serious film. With the title, I
expected an entertaining film with a lot of blood, gore, and action
sequences. This movie however, tried to be so much more, while
retaining a ridiculous plot and ludicrous action sequences. Every fight
scene was either poorly crafted or so unbelievably stupid I almost
walked out of a movie I didn't even have to pay for. The plot itself
was also terrible. Characters barely introduced somehow become
relevant, and acting was so bad at parts I laughed at the
actors/actresses. It seemed like the only character who aged was Abe,
characters such as Mary Todd's fiancé just disappear, and every single
one liner from the beginning of the film is repeated. You know, that
can work. Spider-Man's classic "With great power comes great
responsibility" was okay. But when the characters repeat 6 or 7
different lines it gets old. fast. 

If you can't help yourself, then go see this film. I was intrigued by
the title and hoped to see Abe kick some ass. But this film is just so
outright ridiculous. I feel like I've said that word way too many
times, but it's the only word to describe it. Abe goes from a frail and
tall guy to an axe swinging backflipping badass without anymore
training than chopping down a tree (which was also a poorly done
scene). I don't even think I can say something good about this film,
other than the idea. This movie could have been very entertaining had
it not lost total sense of reality and human capability. I found myself
yelling "as if" multiple times during the film. If you don't believe
me, see it for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have high expectations of this film due solely to it's title.
How wrong I was! This is a popcorn movie of the best sort. Ridiculously
over the top but in a very entertaining way.

The action doesn't stop from the get go and there's a narrative that
runs through the whole movie that keeps you interested.

The SFX are impressive too.

Performances are good, particularly Rufus Sewell who plays a very good
villain. "Rufus Sewell" that's got to be a made up name. It's too cool
to be a real name.

One of the better vampire films in recent years.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter at home I asked myself
why I didn't go to see it in a movie theater during the summer. I
should have but I guess the reason was that I thought the premise was
silly. Too bad because this is a terrific action film. It's very
entertaining but I stress that it's not dumb. All the actors deliver
good performances. Benjamin Walker creates a fantastic hero in Abraham
Lincoln, a secret vampire hunter and the 16th President of the United
States. Walker is good in the action scenes as well as at delivering
Lincoln's historic lines. He begins hunting vampires as a young man
with the assistance of his mentor Henry Sturges (Dominic Cooper). Mary
Elizabeth Winstead plays Lincoln's wife Mary Todd and Anthony Mackie
plays his closest friend William Johnson. Rufus Sewell as Adam is the
film's main antagonist, a powerful vampire with an interesting story.
The film is based on Seth Grahame-Smith's mashup novel of the same
name. It plays very much like a comic book movie, and it takes
liberties with the facts of Lincoln's life while poking fun at some of
them. Director Timur Bekmambetov has a talent for creating impressive
visuals, but here with the assistance of cinematographer Caleb
Deschanel the look of the film is often stunning. The scene in which
Lincoln fights Jack Barts on horseback at sunset is just one amazing
highlight. Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter earned almost twice its
budget at the box office but it should have been a bigger hit. It's
serious fantasy horror. I won't be surprised if it becomes a cult
movie. It's one of the best films of 2012, and I definitely recommend
seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't go to this movie expecting Oscar winning caliber, I did want
to be entertained, even in a "turn your brain off" way. I understand
that more often than not when books are adapted into movies, things are
changed, cut for time/story, etc. Preserving the main idea of a story
can be done even implementing this method without the nuclear meltdown
that occurred with this adaptation.

I LOVED the book. I loved the way time was taken to carefully develop
the characters & story, & weave them into coordination with true
historical facts, & events.

I'm not saying this needed to be "Batman Begins", i'm willing to accept
the fact that studios aren't willing to provide unlimited funds for
films they might consider "going out on a limb."

This movie would've been great if it had gone one of two ways: A goofy,
campy, slaying story in the spirit of Sam Raimi's "Evil Dead" series
(which I thoroughly enjoy). Or, if it had closely followed the tone &
story of the novel. This movie did neither of those. The ONLY
resemblance to the book are some character's names. 

Here are my quarrels: 

1.) A completely changed & rushed back story. What was so carefully
plotted out in the book & gradually developed both story & character
wise (so you can feel for Abe, his plight, motivations, feelings, &
destiny) is now a completely different story with omissions of
important characters, events, situations, mindsets, emotions, etc. &
the addition of characters & situations not in the book. 

It's rushed through in approximately 5 minutes, leaving you wondering
why you should give a crap at all. You have no connection with Abe, or
any other character for that matter. I was actually stunned. 

2.) There's a training sequence that's laughable, & approximately 3
minutes long, with some of the worst CGI ever.

3.) Henry. His back story is unfortunately butchered & laughably
unbelievable. As is his initial meeting (and ensuing friendship) with
Abe. Gone is his meticulous nature, and important contributions to the
story, and left is a husk of the character from the book.

4.) And what's this crap about vampires can't kill their own? And how
vampires are made vampires? The explanation for how vampires are made
vampires is so ridiculous, you'll want to puncture your own eardrums
for having heard it. 

5.) Continuing omission of key characters & events which continually
leave you detached from any characters or the story. Adam, & the female
vampire (? name) are a prime example of additional made up characters
shoe horned in the movie. If they had followed the original story they
would have had more than enough material without needing to invent
these two silly, cardboard characters,

6.) Continuous, unemotional, passionless, mind numbingly repetitive
"Matrix" like slow motion vampire killing scenes. Silly fight in a herd
of wild running horses....horse "tossing". 

7.) Silly subplot about silver. It's not ever in the book as being
harmful, or the making of weapons from them. (PS: writers...stop
putting silver in vampire movies, save it for the werewolves.)

8.) Mary Todd was never savvy to what her husband was up to. But here,
less believably, distributing silver weapons out in the battlefield,
where she could then have a stupid scene where she shoots the female
(name?) vampire, who is running at her with full "Ahhhhhhh!!" battle
cry. 

But I guess the "writers" figured they needed to amp it up & give her a
scene where she does something.

9.) I'm confused as to what happened at the end. Who is it in the bar?
Why couldn't they just have had the ending they had in the book? The
ending in the film reminds me of that ending from "Interview with the
Vampire" with Tom Cruise telling Christian Slater he's going to give
him the choice he never had. Cheesy.

Imagine my shock to find out that Seth Grahame-Smith was involved with
the screenplay. SHAME ON YOU SETH! Did you have little creative
control, or did you not care & sell out completely??!! 

Tim Burton should hang his head in shame too (even though he hasn't
been involved with a quality flick since "Sleepy Hollow")(with the
"possible" exception of "Sweeney Todd".) 

In my showing there was a group of gabby tweens who literally burst
into giggles every time something happened on screen. Most of the time
it was something that wasn't meant to be funny, but due to the nature
of this "film" -was. Normally this behavior annoys me, but I couldn't
even get annoyed with them, as it was justified.

So what did I like you might ask? If you're still reading. Well, I
liked Benjamin Walker as I thought he looked the part, especially in
Abe's later years, & he tried. But due to poor writing, and equally
poor direction, his performance throughout the film is uneven and
shockingly wooden as Abe in his younger years.

I liked Dominic Cooper as Henry, who like Walker, did the best he could
with the crappy material and direction, at least he had a little more
passion in his performance. It's not his fault the script sucked.

I liked that the vampires didn't sparkle.

If you enjoyed or have any respect for the book this is "based" on, I
urge you to refrain from spending your hard earned money on a vastly
overpriced ticket. You have been warned.
