
Like so many other people my first thought after seeing the trailer
was: "WHY are they doing it? This will be pathetic!". Our family still
went to see this movie on the opening day - and me, my wife, and the
kids aged 10 and 14 all had a lot of fun watching it. Yes, it had some
cheesy lines and less than perfect moments but I would never call it
pathetic. I liked it so much that I registered on IMDb to write my
first review. The movie actually answers the "why" question - and
somehow this answer is the best way to describe how the film makes you
feel. Yes, De Niro and Stallone fully realize that they are way past
their prime and will never make anything comparable to "Raging Bull" or
original "Rocky". They just do not make the drama out of it, do not
take themselves too seriously and do not see the roles that made them
famous as some sacred ground that can't be touched. They just want to
have some fun while they are alive - and may be help others have fun as
well. Not a bad way to feel about getting older!
<|_=00=_|>
I went in hoping that I would be at least mildly entertained. Wow, was
I wrong. This movie is solid entertainment with a soul. Yes there are
some solid principles to live by in this movie... and some to ignore.
The acting was superb. I expected Stallone and DeNiro to be somewhat
burnt out. But, they portrayed vivid characters. Stallone's motivation
as a character was largely a mystery until about halfway into the
movie. Definitely a mirror of life today. And, it had a decent ending
that was digestible. I respected their life work before. But, this
movie is likely to make you a fan... or at least of the story. I did
not mention the other actors. But they are all stars in this worthy
story, filled with laughs, mystery, and drama. What's not to like?
<|_=00=_|>
Sylvester Stallone must really love boxing. After returning to the
Rocky films this past decade, he once again enters the ring in Grudge
Match. But the smart thing here is that he's kind of poking fun at
himself. Instead of trying to play a younger boxer which wouldn't be
realistic anymore at his age, he plays a retired boxer who really is
old this time around.

The story focuses on a rivalry between two boxers who fought each other
a couple of times 30 years ago, winning one fight apiece. Naturally,
that situation calls for a "rubber match" to decide the true winner.
But it never happened. Hostility remains between the two guys 3 decades
later though. Stallone plays Henry "Razor" Sharp and Robert De Niro
plays Billy "The Kid" McDonnen. When the two both arrive on set for a
computer-simulated video game that will use their likenesses, they
engage in a physical altercation which soon goes viral for all the
world to see. This prompts a desire to see the two of them in the ring
together once again.

Kevin Hart plays the loud-mouth promoter who puts the fight on. He
plays the same type of character he always plays, but still very funny
nonetheless. The same goes for a funny Alan Arkin as Stallone's trainer
who also plays the same type of character that he always does. So
there's nothing truly unique about the movie, but it doesn't take
itself too seriously and that's kind of a good thing. It focuses on the
funny for the most part, but also adds some depth to the characters
when it shows the struggles they're having in their personal lives.
That's part of the reason they agree to do the fight... along with a
genuine grudge the two still have between each other after all these
years. Some of the jokes can be lame at times, but there are some good
zingers here and there when seeing the two old guys poke fun at each
other. And the fight at the end of the film is done well and worth
waiting for.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Grudge Match in an early screening and I (as most of the
audience) had so much fun. This is a light hearted, nostalgic film with
lots of great jokes and a fantastic cast. 

Kevin Hart delivers, he fits just perfectly in his role. Alan Arkin
steals the show in this one. He is so damn funny with his great one
liners and his impressively cool acting. It is also great to see the
beautiful Kim Basinger on the big screen again. De Niro and Stallone
look 20 years younger than their real age when fighting in the ring,
well choreographed fight scenes by the way. The physics of both
Stallone and De Niro is just impressive. Most 30 year old would be more
than happy to have a body like these two old-timers. There are some
Rocky references in the film, and they are classy ones. 

I find this to be the perfect film for the Christmas Days to have a
great time at the movies. It certainly is not made to please the
critics, it is made to entertain the audience and create a warm,
nostalgic atmosphere. And without any doubt, the film delivers! Can't
wait to see it with some friends on Christmas Day...
<|_=00=_|>
Grudge Match is an entirely satisfying popcorn flick that is good for
just about any kind of movie-goer. The laughs are thoughtful,
consistent, and sometimes enormous. There are some genuinely
side-splitting moments here. And it's not just laughs; the story is
sincere and emotionally driven, with excellent acting across the board
to bolster it. There are essentially two story lines here in parallel
to each other that occasionally intertwine so the plot stays
interesting, granting the movie a little more to offer than your usual
comedy. The movie had heart and if you let it, Grudge Match will win
you over. I don't want to go too much into detail because I really
encourage viewers to go in and check it out for themselves. Bring your
low expectations if that's what you have because it certainly doesn't
hurt. I just can''t believe this movie is doing so poorly in the box
office, because it was in the very least a solid film with everything
executed right. Go see it, and if you like it then see it again because
Grudge Match deserves a much better reputation than it's getting.
<|_=00=_|>
Grudge Match is the story of two well-aged retired boxers, who happen 
to hate each other for varying reasons, who get talked into fighting 
the rematch that was supposed to happen 30 years prior. 

I don't think I'm alone in saying that there were some seriously low 
expectations going into this one, but I must say, there are MANY 
redeeming qualities about this movie that made it a great watch. The 
first thing that stands out to me is probably the first thing on 
everyone's mind - Sylvester Stallone and Robert De Niro combine to be 
about 320 years old. Why do we want to watch them fight??? Well, the 
movie is completely aware of your question, and answers you with this: 
Because it's FUN. The movie never shies away from how old they are, and 
plays on it for MANY fun moments. (On Stallone's end, they make more 
than a couple indirect references to the Rocky movies, with great 
effect.) 

The next thing that stands out? SOLID ACTING. The cast as a whole could 
have easily phoned this one in, relying on name-power so sell some 
tickets, but everyone seemed to be all-in with their characters, and 
give us scene after scene of good comedic interactions. Kevin Hart 
gives us some great moments, Stallone and DeNiro shine when sharing 
scenes, Alan Arkin is a pleasure to watch, Kim Basinger is still a fox, 
and - I'm just going to put this out there - Jon Bernthal is a future 
star, and he absolutely nails his role. (And the guest appearance of 
the UFC's Chael Sonnen was some sweet icing on the cake...the camera 
loves that guy...lol)

It's not all perfect - it runs a bit too long (nearly 2 hours), and it 
does get pretty cheesy towards the end - but Grudge Match is a fun ride 
overall. If you're a boxing fan, boxing-movie fan, comedy fan, or a fan 
of anyone in this movie, don't miss it.

Grudge Match scores a 3.5 out of 5 on the BDBOS.

STAY THROUGH THE CREDITS!!! There's a couple of bonus scenes you'll 
want to catch.

...I've got the strangest craving for some butterscotch 
jellybeans...lol


<|_=00=_|>
Now I am biased in two ways while writing this review. First, Stallone
is my favourite actor and second, I just saw the movie so I am still
within the movie magic that's making me give it 10/10. However, I doubt
the next 24hrs will change anything, Grudge Match is perfect!

Judge it by any standard or any angle you want, the comedy delivers,
the plot is engaging and consistent, the actors are top-notch and
believable in their roles and the score is spot on.

The trailer only gives you a third of what you can expect and take out
from this film. The movie itself is such an enjoyable experience you
will not see the time go by. While there is no suspense, at no point
can you criticize the movie for being predictable. The story is so well
done, it will carry you through the entire 113 minutes. 

The very first 5mins did it for me. No non-sense, straight to the point
and on your way to entertainment. Absolute jewel :D Stallone is 67
years old, and he is still the best.
<|_=00=_|>
I think people started hating this movie because people like hating.

I love the performances by all the leads in this film. I love the
writing, the directing, and the editing. This is not a slap-dash,
make-a-quick-buck film.

Unfortunately, there is one short scene, almost an insert, for what
appears to be nothing more than product placement. I suspect this was
added by a producer simply for the product placement opportunity. It
doesn't work, has a couple of laughs, but completely yanked me out of
what was a well paced movie. It took several minutes to get back into
the flow and made the ending come off cheesier than it would have if
they had kept me in the story.

This movie will stand the test of time. 

I don't know why everything has to be the BEST anymore. Why can't
something just be good and entertaining?

This is not the best movie of the year, but it is a wonderful film with
a heart. And it's FUNNY. There is a lot of variety in the humor-- some
of it on the nose or slapsticky, some of it witty or even urbane.

I saw the morning show on a Monday. Lightly attended, but everyone was
laughing and smiling as they left.

I hope there's a director's cut where that one short mistake scene is
deleted (should have been saved for deleted scenes or over end
credits).

That correction would likely not appease critics who had their
complaints about Rocky and Raging Bull ready weeks before the release,
but it would help.

This is a fantastic ensemble piece that is funny (very much in a
Bridesmaids' kinda of way as weird as that sounds).

Don't let the haters keep you from a delightful film.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is about Henry "Sharp" Razor (Sylvester Stallone) and Billy
"The Kid" McDonnen (Robert De Niro), two boxers who were arch enemies
in their prime, then Razor announcement his retirement from boxing
which makes McDonnen enrage. 30 years later, the thought of a rematch
is asked by the son of the two's previous promoter's son Dante Slate,
Jr. (Kevin Hart). McDonnen is all for it, but Razor is not due to his
own personal reason (which is said in the film). At the end though the
two boxers duke it out but both go home a winner. Personally I thought
the movie was amazingly entertaining. Like I said before, it is
basically a Rocky Balboa film, as I said as the movie was coming
out,"It may have originally been Rocky 7." However the film is a comedy
and it has a good amount of laughs within it. If you are a fan of
sports films, boxing fan, Kevin Hart, or Sylvester Stallone fan go
watch the movie. My biggest grip with the film is the amount of
language. I understand that these types of characters would speak this
much, and the fact that the movie is PG-13, but there really is an
amount of times you can say $H!% and getting annoying/ tired some. I
don't know its probably a personal thing. Overall the movie is a great
watch, and I will definitely add this to my Rocky collection (even
though it isn't a Rocky movie).
<|_=00=_|>
What a refreshing and unexpected (but nice) surprise Grudge Match was
for the wife and I to sit down on a Saturday night, plop the Blu Ray
disc in and for the next 2 hours, just enjoy a decent film minus any
drugs, knife fights, or guns a blazing. When you have two major action
stars such as Robert De Niro and Sylvester Stallone one might expect
that the testosterone level on the big screen would get a bit heavy
especially considering the movies theme is about two old and retired
fighters who come out of retirement after 30 years to put the gloves
back on and get back in to the ring to settle a very old score since
both fighters won one of their two previous matches while in their
prime back in the 1980's.

Robert DeNiro plays Billy "The Kid" McDonnen. Now Billy has a very big
ego and since his boxing career ended prematurely 30 years ago he has
done pretty good for himself owning his own car dealership and a
successful bar called the Knockout. There is one scene in the film that
I just grinned from ear to ear as Billy did a stand-up comedy routine
in his bar with a puppet dressed as a prize fighter sitting in his
corner as Billy bantered back and forth with the prize fighter dummy.
The scene is less than a minute long but I give it full credit for the
originality.

Sylvester Stallone plays Henry "Razor" Sharp. Now Razor was the guy who
decided to hang up his gloves in the prime of his fighting career and
we eventually find out why he retired. No spoiler alert, you will have
to wait and hear it from Razor himself why he chose to retire from the
ring. Razor's life has been kind of frozen in time these past 30 years,
and he now works as a laborer in a factory, goes home to an empty house
with no TV, cable or internet, and eats canned tuna and over ripened
bananas to make ends meet. Razors life seems very depressing. Something
is bothering him and the audience gets interested in finding out what
makes Razor tick. I would have thought a boxing genre film would have
been easier to figure out but the screenwriters did a good job in
keeping the plot a bit deeper than most boxing films and we gradually
grow to like Razor's character and think less of Billy the Kid's
shallow and selfish personality.

There is also a good supporting cast of characters such as Kevin Hart
who plays fight promoter Dante Slate Jr.. Dante's deceased father used
to promote Razor's fights and Razors' memories of Dante Slate Sr. are
not very good as he recalls being ripped off of his prize fight
earnings. So Razor instantly is not prepared to go back in to the ring
with Dante Slate Jr. holding the purse strings. Eventually Dante
convinces Razor to put the gloves back on, but only for a fight
simulation video for a software video company who agrees to pay him
$15K. The movie is worth watching if for nothing else but seeing
Stallone and De Niro dressed up in their head to toe lime green
leotards game gear costumes so the techies can video their fight
simulation. Did I say fight simulation? Well once Billy and Razor are
within ring distance of each other the brouhaha goes viral on the
internet and "the fight is on man!" We eventually get introduced to Kim
Basinger's character Sally, who plays Razor's old love interest.
Something happened to split Razor and Sally apart 30 years ago and we
find out why Razor is a bit disenchanted with his life. When Razor
eventually does agree to fight Billy for the grudge match of the decade
he asks his old and trusted trainer Louis Lightning Conlon, played by
veteran actor Alan Arkin. Louis is currently in a wheelchair and
residing in an old age home, but Razor still wants his old and trusted
friend Louis to get him back in to fighting shape. Razor is an
honorable man and true friend as part of his income is used to pay for
his friends nursing home costs. 

There are a couple of scenes that remind us in a fun way of Stallone's
Rocky films that just add to the films humorous theme. Billy on the
other hand goes through a few trainers including LL Cool J who plays
Frankie Brite, and Billy eventually settles on having his long lost son
BJ played smartly by Jon Bernthal to train him.

Before you know it, we are witness to the fight of the decade in front
of 18,000 fight fans split between who they want to win the fight. Most
film goers always have their own prediction on who will win the main
event. Will Razor win? Will Billy the Kid win? Or maybe it will be a
draw? As I said no spoiler alert coming from me, so let's just say the
ending is a good one. No, let me rephrase this..., I would say the
ending is even better than I anticipated it would be. I Give Grudge
match an 8 out of 10 ranking for the 10 rounds that Grudge Match went.
Watch it and you will not be disappointed. It's a knockout hit.
