
Caught a preview screening of this movie tonight in NYC. I am 26 years
old now, so I was in 8th grade when the original came out.

Thought the first two were awesome but thought the third noticeably
drifted away from what made the first two special.(A little too much
Stifler).

For American Pie 4, when I saw the preview I was excited to see them
all back together, but I didn't know what to expect. I know Hollywood
loves destroying sequels and I didn't know how they were going to
create a story line out of characters that really haven't been together
in forever.

Fear not. I though this movie was almost as good as the original. Two
hours of non-stop cracking-up, but none of it was forced. They brought
back all the characters, but in a way that didn't seem thrown together
or in-genuine. It was about 2 hours and 15 minutes long, but not once
did I think this was dragging. They did a nice job explaining where
everyone has been and it didn't really seem awkward.

The best part of it is, the story is about all 5 of the original guys,
and their relationship with women and sex at their current juncture (31
years old). Each have their own issues (too married, have kids, hate
their jobs, hate their lifestyle, etc.) and the movie is kind of about
them all resolving their that over the course of a reunion weekend.
It's the American Pie which is most similar too the first one. All the
old couples from high-school (Oz/Heather, Kevin/Vicky, Jim/Michelle)
re-hash their past feelings.

Another great thing about the film is that Stifler's character is
written back in the style of American Pie 1 and 2, which I loved. His
part is not over bearing like the Wedding. Kevin, Finch (and Oz) play
much bigger roles than they did they did in the third.

There a couple new characters but none of them are annoying or take up
too much of the story, all those parts are well cast. Jim's Dad and
Stifler's Mom are hilarious on screen together. Jim's Dad is the
funniest he has ever been- but again- not in an over the top way. All
in all, it's a well-written, well-rounded film with some good plot
twists. Tons of references too the old films. Literally, all of the
obscure characters from the first two make an appearance at some point.

BOTTOM LINE: 9/10. If you are a fan of the American Pie films
(especially 1 & 2) your going to LOVE this movie. Worth the $.
<|_=00=_|>
I was 16 when the original American Pie came out. It was a film that
spoke to me greatly. It was my generation's Ridgemont High, you might
say. The sequels too, were enjoyable. But to say that the series didn't
wear itself thin might be an understatement. And don't even get me
started on the direct to DVD creations. However, American Reunion
surprised me with a couple entertaining trailers, and nostalgia grabbed
me by the balls. Having had the opportunity to see an early screening,
I am happy to say that this is the series I remembered it being.

There's nothing too outside the norm for an American Pie series film.
We find the original cast living life over ten years after the original
film. Jim and Michelle are having a few marital issues and raising a
kid. Stiffler is working a job as a temp, dealing with an a-hole boss.
Finch has become a mystery of sorts. Oz is a big shot sportscaster with
a supermodel girlfriend. And Kevin is a stay at home husband, slash
architect. The group returns for their high school reunion and
reconnect with each other and their fellow classmates. But this is a
film that is as much about the audience seeing it as it is about our
favorite foursome. As stated, the film isn't remarkable in the plot
sense. Unlike the previous films, there isn't a big endgame to cling
to. There's no goal of losing virginity like the first film, finding
true love like the second film, or having a successful wedding like the
third film. Instead, these characters just deal with being back in
their hometown and their own individual issues.

If anything, the film is highly nostalgic. It's filled with characters
and situations reminiscent of the previous films. It still manages to
surprise with many of it's shenanigans, from the boys having to get out
of some awkward tight spots, to Jim once again finding himself in
extremely embarrassing situations. Heck we even get a few truly
surprising moments that are also very laugh out loud. But for the
audience that grew up on these films, it will be like a trip down
memory lane. It's fun seeing all your favorite characters return, from
the underused ones to all of the main cast. Even seeing characters like
Oz or Vicky, whose real life counterparts haven't had much of a career
since the American Pie film, are pleasant to see again. And they all do
a great job of reprising these characters. Best of all, the film is
hilarious, with plenty of laugh out loud moments.

My biggest qualm with the film is it's lack of a strong central plot.
Nostalgia only goes so far and there's really nothing to cling to here
in terms of something these characters are working for. By comparison,
there was the ever present goal of the guys losing their virginity.
Here, their personal issues seem meager. Yes, Jim and Michelle are
having issues, but you never really feel like it won't work out.
Knowing these characters, you already know they love each other. The
same goes for most of the others, whom you always feel will come out on
top. This despite a few surprises. And with the whole movie revolving
around the up coming reunion, an event which doesn't seem to have much
affect on the direction these characters take, there's never a real
sense of character growth. Instead, you're just hanging out with the
boys again, watching them get into trouble.

But this is okay. It's okay because the movie is funny. Much of what
happens resembles the kind of humorous situations from the other films.
There are some truly laugh out loud moments and the surprises will have
you howling. Despite my nostalgic interest in the film, I found some
genuinely fun and surprising moments. For fans, this should be a no
brainer. The film is definitely worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Going to keep this short, because it's my first review, and I don't
wamt to bore people.

Saw an early screening today in Amsterdam, and I was really excited
because the trailer promised a lot. And you know what? It was amazing!

Simply because they made it as good as the original and the second
movie. (I liked the first two but I personally think that the third one
drifted away from the original theme a bit) 

I also liked how they made Stifler return to his original state. Crazy
as always, doing things the way he wants to do. The other thing that I
found good was that they briefly showed what everyone does after high
school and at what position they are at the moment.

All in all, great film (what else could you expect from these guys),
I'd say go see it, definitely worth your time!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to catch an advance screening last night at the Mall
of America in Minnesota. This movie will not disappoint anyone who is a
fan of the original movies or the characters. It has all of the
gross-out humor, sexual tension, and most importantly the heart. It
doesn't break in any new ground, but gives great closure to all of the
characters. The laughs also are spread out well from start until during
the credits. In face, I think the first 3 minutes was the funniest I've
ever seen in a movie. Even my wife who is just a casual fan laughed
more at this movie than any other comedy I've taken her to. Stifler is
back!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advance screening of American Reunion in Chicago tonight. Sean
WIlliam Scott and Jason Biggs both attended and spoke with the audience
before the movie and were very grateful and genuine about the movie.
And were very funny too. 

This was the perfect way to end the series. And I hope they do end it
here, because it was perfect. NOT that I wouldn't see American Old
Folks Home, but let's not let it get to that. All the characters were
just as great as they were in the first 2 films. Oz, Kevin, Finch, Jim,
and of course the man who comes with most of the laughs Stifler are all
back. As well as pretty much every single speaking roll from the
original movie. I will say this is as good if not better than the
original. The story is great and very realistic to what most of us are
going through today. We hate our jobs, we're married or in some kind of
middle aged rut. We still just want to be the kids we were in high
school but it's hard because as much as we don't like to admit it we
have all grown up. 

Never fear though with all the boring life stuff, the gang is all back
and come with many many fun moments and get themselves into quite a few
pickles. I'd say as many as the first 2 movies combined. But it doesn't
feel forced or like they threw it in the movie just because they felt
they had to. Everything flowed naturally and kept me and the entire
audience laughing from beginning till the credits rolled. 

All of the characters end up in a great place at the end, and I can
thoroughly say that this will be a classic. No doubt about it. 

Ton of laughs, it had heart, makes you feel like you can relate to
these guys more than ever. I've grown up with these guys and we all
have friends like this. I was sad it ended so soon, even though it was
over 2 hours. It was still sad to see the guys go one last time. 

Overall American Reunion was on par if not better than the original.
The original will always be a classic in our eyes, but this will be a
close second.

To the next step

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being an American Pie fan since the beginning, I was excited about
American Reunion. The boys are back for another crazy, sexual, and
over- the-top adventure.

Since the last film in 2003, I thought they wouldn't be able to perform
as well together. But from start to finish, they played their roles as
if they never left. 

This movie will definitely keep you laughing, especially if you are a
long time fan. Not to mention Jim's dad finally got the screen time he
deserved. 

Now, I don't think it was as good as it could have been. The plot, as
mentioned in other reviews, was plain. But all in all, It was an
amazing sequel to the series. Better than the first? I don't think so.
But as good as the first? YES!

I do recommend watching the last three American Pie movies before going
to see this. You will understand the movie much clearer, and not to
mention the little surprise(s) will have you rolling on the floor
laughing.

Cons: It wasn't dirty enough. The jokes were hysterical, but I wanted
more! I wanted more F bombs, sex jokes, and pie humping! But I guess
that is what the previous Pie films were for ;)

If you are a fan, you will enjoy this film. You will NOT be
disappointed.

10/10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
There is really not much to say here except that the return of Stifler
and his posse....and just about every single memorable character from
the first three films...are welcomed back with open arms in "American
Reunion." After three absolutely sensational, immature-but-awesome
comedies about sex, masturbation and fart jokes (somewhat ignoring the
somewhat mediocre offshoots "Band Camp," "The Naked Mile," "Beta House"
and "The Look of Love"), I really did not know if, over a decade later,
with all the actors and characters older, they could recapture the
crude magic that made the first three instalments such comedy classic.

Guess what? They did.

It is now thirteen years later and the crew converge upon their high
school, all grown up now, for their, you guessed it, high school
reunion. And yes, the film relies heavily on nostalgia and clichés
about friends, sex and lost love, but the writing here is so great, it
really doesn't matter. The film continues the series' reputation of
being politically incorrect and walking the line of taste while still
managing to present it all in a way that makes the audience laugh out
loud despite themselves. All the main characters returned, played by
all the original actors including Jason Biggs, Alyson Hannigan, Sean
William Scott, Chris Klein, Thomas Ian Nicholas and Eddie Kaye Thomas.
Jennifer Coolidge is still as much a MILF as Stifler's mom while Eugene
Levy, the only one to appear in ever single incarnation of these films,
continues his signature role of Jim's dad. Even Tara Reid and Mena
Suvari are back in the mix.

Loads of ridiculous situations, a disgusting hijink and fantastically
hilarious comedy ensues as the gang gets back together, having aged
stupendously (Klein's body has gotten even more porn-worthy) and making
this long-awaited return well worth the time and effort. And if this
film makes the box office it deserves, we may just get invited back to
the party one more time. And I'll be there with bells on.
<|_=00=_|>
American Pie was great. The sequels weren't so good. They were juvenile
and fell flat because the humor was too obvious and dumb. But American
Reunion was awesome! It had great believable storyline, character
development, and well-placed physical humor like the original American
Pie. It brought back the nostalgia of the high school years of the '90s
while commenting on current times.

I brought a friend who has never seen the American Pie series, and she
laughed throughout the entire movie. Seann William Scott aka
"Stifmeister" carries American Reunion just as he did in the original
American Pie.

Sometimes you can tell a movie is going to bomb when you see the
trailers. If the trailers are really funny, chances are the comedy is
going to be a dud because all the funny moments are shown in the
trailers.

Trust me. The trailer does not do this movie a justice for a reason.
You can not fit all funny moments in the trailer.

***Movie contains graphic images*** Word of advice: wait until the
credits end for a nice surprise
<|_=00=_|>
It was 1999 that American Pie launched what would be a series of
teenage sex comedies, given a relatively cost effective formula loaded
with nudity and toilet humour, that exploded at the box office and made
everyone sit up to take note which of its cast members would go on to
make it big. The film spawned two more films that would culminate in a
wedding, before going direct to video in the many spin offs lie Band
Camp, Naked Mile, Beta House and Book of Love that had very little
links to the main characters. It's almost a decade already, and it's
perhaps time to put those spin off films to rest, and bring back the
original cast and their characters to the big screen in a logical
reunion. And why not, given that the individual cast members never
really made it to the big league, that coming together in a show of
unity may rekindle memories of an audience who grew up with them from
1999's original, and in some ways provide one last shot in the arm for
their individual careers.

And so it's a warm hello to old friends with whom we have last left off
without much of a closure for all the characters, and like a real
reunion, we discover just what our friends have been up to during the
course of their absence in our lives. Some are successful, others not,
and some are depending on what definition you're using. There's Jason
Biggs as Jim Levenstein who's still married to Michelle (Alyson
Hannigan) with a kid in tow and having trouble with their non-existent
sex lives, Oz (Chris Klein) being a successful television sports anchor
and celebrity with a model girlfriend (Katrina Bowden), Kevin (Thomas
Ian Nicholas) who's also happily married but dreading a very routine
lifestyle filled with TV and more TV, who would have thought Finch
(Eddie Kaye Thomas) being very much of an all round adventurer, and
Stifler (Seann William Scott) the jock who, well, according to
unwritten rules, finds himself in between jobs, getting really nowhere
in his career, and still bearing a grudge towards Finch for nailing
Stifler's Mom (Jennifer Coolidge).

Some things never change too, as we usually find out during meet ups
with old friends, old flames and once rivals, that when we rekindle the
past, we'll at times tangent into the what ifs. And there are plenty of
such situations that make up the narrative of Reunion, with Jim having
to fend off the advances of his neighbour Kara (Ali Cobrin), whom he
babysat a long time back and is now a nubile 18 year old eager to lose
her virginity to Jim, and both Oz and Kevin discovering old feelings
with their exes Heather (Mena Suvari) and Vicky (Tara Reid). Stifler
faces challenges at work especially that threatens to cancel his
attendance at the school reunion ball, while Finch seems to get onto a
real relationship with Selena (Dania Ramirez).

There's also the return of the evergreen favourite, Jim's dad (Eugene
Levy), now a widower but still finding time to talk about sexuality
very openly to an always embarrassed Jim, and that of a slew of
supporting characters from the earlier films that I will not name to
contain the surprise. But it's a full reunion as the filmmakers pulled
out all the stops in order to make sure of a proper representation
rather than a half-hearted event, in order not to short change the
audience. And surprisingly though that directors Jon Hurwitz and Hayden
Schlossberg seemed to have restrained themselves a lot from their
Harold and Kumar days, and like touching a holy grail of teenage sex
comedies, treated the material and characters here with a lot of
respect rather than going for the jugular because getting the team back
together again with a valid excuse will seem like a long way ahead.

But when the jokes came, they came fast and furious since we have
Stifler in the party and ensuring that his posse of friends get the
best deal out of their short weekend stay in town, and this balances
out with more dramatic moments which can be seen coming from a mile
away. Stifler's party forms the centerpiece where the you-know-what
hits the fan, and for all the amount of nudity in the earlier movies,
American Reunion would win for being the tamest of the lot, toning
blatant nudity down by a lot of notches, and keeping things in relative
PG mode as the narrative chugged along drama rather than comedy, for
the most parts of the second half anyway.

The first American Pie film garnered an R21 rating here, and this one,
although having full front male genitalia on display, male on male
kissing, the requisite foul language and subject matter that will earn
it an R21 easily, its M18 rating perhaps also reflected a relatively
loosening of ratings here in Singapore, although this remains to be
seen whether one off, or gets sustained and gradually loosened up even
more as time goes by. Still, American Reunion, whatever the rating, is
definitely for franchise fans (whether considering the direct to video
titles or not), and I really enjoyed how it went full circle in the
group's reunion in their final scene together. If you're a fan, then
what are you waiting for?
<|_=00=_|>
My school was handing out tickets for a special screening for American
Reunion tonight, I just got back from the screening. I was never a die
hard fan of the American Pie series, but I've always found them to be
quite enjoyable. I still feel the same way when I was watching this
film. I'll be honest, I thought this one wasn't going to be any good
and I thought it would be toned down, I'm glad to be wrong this time
around. I'm not going to go much into the plot except that it's simply
a reunion as all the characters are here to return, which it what you'd
expect coming into this. It's just as sweet and crude as the previous
three. Just like the other films, Seann William Scott is still the best
part of the film. The rest of the cast did just as good as they did
with the previous films. If you're a fan of the previous films, you'll
still find something to enjoy. If you never were a fan, this isn't
going to change your mind.
