
"Better Living Through Chemistry" (2014 release; 92 min.) brings the
story of Doug Varney (played by Sam Rockwell), who is stuck in an
unhappy marriage, and who has just bought the pharmacy from his
father-in-law. One evening, Doug is making house deliveries of
prescriptions, and one of those deliveries is to a McMansion, where the
doorbell is answered by Elizabeth, a beautiful yet bored and unhappy
housewife (played by Olivia Wilde). It's not long before Doug and
Elizabeth hit it off, setting Doug on a path of personal discovery. In
a parallel story, Doug is dealing with his 12 year old son who is going
through a tough stretch himself. To tell you more would spoil your
viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all
plays out.

Couple of comments: first, this is the big screen debut of Geoff Moore
and David Posamentier, who co-directed and also co-wrote this original
screenplay. Second, this is one of those 'little' indie movies that
just could, as the movie doesn't take itself too seriously yet before
you know it 90 min. have come and gone. Third, the character of Doug is
of course crucial to the success of the movie. Originally schedule to
be played by Jeremy Renner (who bowed out due to schedule conflicts),
Sam Rockwell, whom we saw excel just last year in "The Way, Way Back",
gives a commanding performance as Doug, and basically carries the movie
on his shoulders. There are many other smaller choice roles, including
of course Olivia Wilde, but check out also Ray Liotta as the husband of
Elizabeth (max 15 min. of screen time), and Jane Fonda as herself at
the very end (in a blink-and-you'll-miss-it role). Fourth, the movie
was filmed in and around Annapolis, MD, which looks just gorgeous. Last
but not least, there are a lot of great songs in the movie soundtrack,
including Donovan's "Season of the Witch" and lots of indie music. But
Queens of the Stone Age's "Better Living Through Chemistry" is NOT in
the movie.

This movie opened today without any pre-release fanfare or hype at my
local art-house theatre here in Cincinnati. The matinée showing I saw
this at was surprisingly well attended, given the low profile of the
movie and the simultaneous release on Amazon Instant Video. All that
aside, I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. "Better Living Through
Chemistry" is definitely worth checking out, be it in the theater, on
DVD or on Amazon Instant Video.
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever looked around at your life and realized that it didn't
turn out the way you thought it would? Sure, everyone has, and while
most people would just chalk it up to a healthy dose of reality, small
town pharmacist Douglas Varney (Sam Rockwell) is searching for
something more. He's not entirely sure what that something is, until a
chance meeting with local millionaire's wife Elizabeth (Olivia Wilde)
results in the type of mind-blowing, toe-curling sex that he's only
dreamed about.

The fact that Doug is married should serve as a major deterrent to this
sort of activity, but when his wife (Michelle Monaghan) is a highly
competitive cyclist who doles out sex and respect in equal amounts
(read: none at all), it's easy to see why this lonely schlub would be
driven into the arms of a femme fatale. It doesn't hurt that Doug's
place of business gives him unfettered access to a wide array of
prescription drugs, and soon he and Elizabeth fall into a steady cycle
of psychotropic carnality.

The illicit affair instills a newfound confidence in Doug, and much
like Kevin Spacey in American Beauty, he begins to rebel against
everything and everyone that has been holding him back all these years.
The always charismatic Rockwell radiates cool from every pore as he
struts from scene to scene, a cigarette drooping lazily from his lip as
he schemes to beat his wife at her own game: a local bike race dubbed
the Tour de Woodbury, which she has never lost.

There are a few other side plots, including an ill-conceived murder
plot and a surprisingly sweet moment that finds Doug bonding with his
troubled, distant 12-year-old son, but the crux of this film is Doug's
transformation from put-upon loser to swaggering, cocky bad boy.
Rockwell takes the ball and runs with it, and the effective (if
underutilized) supporting cast gives him plenty of room to put his own
stamp on this familiar story.
<|_=00=_|>
A strait-laced pharmacist's uneventful life spirals out of control when
he starts an affair with a trophy-wife customer who takes him on a
joyride involving sex, drugs and possibly murder.

This film comes across as your standard indie comedy with a solid cast.
Olivia Wilde, Sam Rockwell and Ray Liotta, to name a few. Maybe not
quite A-list, but all well-established actors in their own right with
plenty of talent. Through in a cameo by Ben Schwartz, who is definitely
moving up in the world, and you have a strong ensemble.

The film is good, too, with plenty of subtle humor, of a dark nature,
and just enough quirkiness to appease the target audience. Maybe not
quite funny enough to recommend, but worth the time it takes to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I enjoyed this one thoroughly. One, there was rarely a boring
moment, it didn't give me enough time to ponder about what next? Two,
the performances by both Sam and Olivia were convincing and enjoyable,
especially Sam. Once in a while what one needs is pure
entertainment(not nonsensical though!) and this one provides the right
thrills and entertainment in one go. Olivia Wilde is exactly that, just
wild in the movie and has a wonderful screen presence. The chemistry
between the two is great too, and you wish they had more scenes
together. I gave it a 7 for I had a good time watching it and would
recommend it for an evening watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Sam Rockwell has done some really great work. Not here, but he has,
trust me. Ditto Michelle Monaghan, Olivia Wilde and Ray Liotta. And,
let me be clear when I tell you that they try very hard to make this a
nice little comedy. Sadly, all their hard work is pretty much wasted,
and combined with the unnecessary Jane Fonda Narration I found Better
Living Through Chemistry to be one of those movies you might watch some
rainy, boring night - one of those nights when this is the only
possible choice.

Rotten weather tonight? Seen every episode of Two Broke Girls at least
twice? Need to save your gray matter for tomorrow's presentation?
Great! This is a movie for you.

I think that the below average production really detracts from the
film. There is something 'funky' about the sound and the filming is
just a little bit off, like it was filmed half digital/half Eastman
Kodak. No need for me to be more specific, you will notice. Trust me,
again.

Another negative is knowing how much you have enjoyed the leads in the
past. Consider Rockwell in Moon, or Monaghan in True Detective, two
very strong performances. Rockwell in this movie comes off more like
the new Rick Moranis (Honey, I drugged the kids) and I don't recall
ever seeing Michelle so tired around the edges. I mentioned that they
work hard, right? 

This is not some comedic breakthrough, by the way. I do believe it has
all been done before, thematically. 

Though this is a film about a pharmacist, there is nothing new in this
comedy as far as concepts or gags. You have seen it all before. The
script isn't at all fresh, a real problem for me. It even has the
oddball kid, you know the one that is going his own way or words to
that effect. The core concepts that are supposed to work and make us
laugh just don't work often enough.

I don't know if this ever made it to the theaters, or went straight to
video. If it was in general release it is impossible for me to imagine
it generating the sort of buzz to attract many folks to the old movie
house.

However, it is watchable. Sound odd? Not really, just don't expect
much. And, don't worry about pausing when you need a quick trip to the
john, you won't miss much and no new techniques will be introduced.

Trust me.
<|_=00=_|>
If you never start, you'll never finish. Makes sense, also if you don't
break out, you'll stay imprisoned. Both those things do apply to our
main hero here (played with much gusto by Sam Rockwell, whose presence
alone elevates any and every movie). You also get Olivia Wilde who
takes her last name literally ... well her character does.

For a "small" movie that is quite an impressive cast that assembles
here and it does show on screen. There are a few things that might feel
a bit cliché, but that can be attributed to once cynicism or the fact
that one has watched too many movies (I'm mainly talking about myself
here). But even through all this the movie has heart and does keep you
guessing and rooting for the main (naive) guy ... Sam Rockwell can do
that to you (the character he's playing).
<|_=00=_|>
Here is an example of a simple story told in a such a great way. Sam
and Norbert did a great job I think. Although I am still not a fan
seeing adults curse in front of the kids on screen but I guess it
slowly become normal nowadays.

Sad thing is I met many men and women and they mostly go through the
same similar crisis as they do in this movie. I am not an expert or
anything but it feels authentic in this film. What would you do if your
wife disrespect you in front of other people in public? Or what would
you say if your husband always so passive? As it says at the end
sometimes only you can help yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Much better than Breakfast of Champions, and more mature than a Hunter
S. Thompson romp, though with all of the paranoia. Poor Doug. As usual
Sam Rockwell﻿ is able to be all things in one people, taking Doug from
zero to hero and back and forth across the blurring lines like a
master. With no spine, and bullies in all directions all Doug needed
was that little push, and Wilde is just the right level of force to
make it possible to care about Doug even while watching him go from the
guy who judges the junkies to just another one himself. The entire
movie is narrated spectacularly by Jane Fonda﻿, and the final
reveal/payoff is worth it even if it is so telegraphed.(she's holding
the box people ;) ) I really fond a lot of heart in this movie
especially between the father, and Son as they build a bond that many
of us will envy. I recommend this movie completely, there is some
language, and a very adult story line, but for the most part it is
harmless humour, and ironic things that just happen.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a suburban pharmacist undergoing a midlife
crisis. His life spirals out of control when he meets a beautiful
female customer.

"Better Living Through Chemistry" spends an adequate amount of time
building up a picture of Douglas' the unpleasant life. He is constantly
undermined by his loved ones, and it does not feel great to be him. I
feel for him, and I think Sam Rockwell does well in making me care for
his character. Douglas' life changes quickly after Elizabeth arrives,
some for the better and some for the worse. There is much food for
thought, especially whether life is better through chemistry. The build
up of the policeman plus DEA agent encounter is well done as well! It
really got the character and me as well. I enjoy watching "Better
Living Through Chemistry" a lot, as it gives people bits to chew on,
reflecting on their own lives.
<|_=00=_|>
Protagonist is a positive person, which is an under-heel-guy, doing
everything to please his wife and her parents. Very common situation.

In some moment another woman pushes him in right direction to change:
to become a free-spirit person and start taking care about himself. Of
course, it was not a very healthy way - meaning there were some drugs
involved. But again, the situation shown is quite truthful: if we want
good changes - sometimes it's not possible to do EVERYTHING right all
the way, agree? Of course, there are some lucky coincidences which help
our main character to come out clean from all the problems finally. But
once more: haven't you ever had situations in your life, when you are
very close to get into troubles when trying to make things better and
finally as a reward for all your trials you are saved in some magic
way? :) All in all, this movie is very positive. It let you dream when
watching it, but easily gets you back to reality when it ends. With
pleasant thoughts.
