
Just got back from a screening in Vancouver~ Thanks to Clint Eastwood,
it was almost free (only one dollar per ticket) I will try to keep my
review spoiler-free~

Personally, I thought it was a great film. Not exceptional in anyway,
but still great. The tone reminds me a bit of Changeling. Makes sense
since the stories are from the same period. I have to say, with
Eastwood, Leonardo DiCaprio and Dustin Lance Black all on board, I was
kind of expecting something a bit more than this.

I thought the weakest link was the script. It was interesting, but
flawed. Also, the story was not very intriguing. Having watched Milk
(also written by Black) and really liked how the story unfolded, I was
expecting a great story about how J. Edgar Hoover rose to power and how
he gradually transformed into the monster he became in the end. But
instead, the story was told by shifting back and forth in time
countless times, which at some point made me feel emotionally detached
from the story and the characters. The bad bad makeup (I guess we can
all agree on that~) was also very distracting. The elderly characters
looked like wax figures to me.

That said, I really LOVED Eastwood's score. It was moving and really
fit the mood of the film. His direction and camera-work were masterful
as always. Leo was very convincing as J. Edgar, although I keep on
seeing bits and pieces of Howard Hughes in his performance. Judi Dench
and Naomi Watts were both great, however the same thing can not be said
about Armie Hammer. I thought he was much better in The Social Network.
There were a few good moments between him and Leo, but his performance
as the elderly Clyde Tolson was darn right awful. I blame the horrible
makeup.

As for the Oscars, this film will get a few nominations, but I doubt
that it would become a strong contender. Though Leo's performance was
not without its flaws, I thought it was more than enough to secure his
leading actor nomination. Nods for best art direction, best
cinematography and best score are also quite possible. 

This film had the potential to become a masterpiece, but fell short of
my expectations mainly due to the uneven script. While far from being
one of his best, it is nevertheless a welcome addition to Eastwood's
portfolio.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Why are there are these horrible reviews? I just saw this movie
yesterday and it was utterly fantastic. I'm not the only one that
thinks so. The theater was packed with people, mainly from adult to
elderly but it was packed non the less. Everyone was clapping at the
end of the movie. 

"J. Edger" tells the story of how the man J. Edger Hoover came to
power, and goes into his personal life. Clint Eastwood did a wonderful
job at bring this amazing story to life, and his so score was beautiful
too. Leonardo DiCabrio was unbelievable. I couldn't believe how
fantastic he was. It was one of the best performances I personally have
ever seen. If he dose not win an Oscar for this, it would be just
terrible. Everyone else was great too, everyone. And guess what people,
the makeup was FANTASTIC! 

Why people are bashing this movie so much is beyond me. It's not for
everyone I'll admit. It's for people with a brain who want to see a
piece of art instead of some stupid film like the Immortals.
<|_=00=_|>
The infamous words spoken by Pilate to Jesus of Nazareth come to mind
when one ponders the life of John Edgar Hoover. Was he a genius or a
tyrant? A patriot or a dictator? A cross dresser or an uptight man with
no sex life? Nobody knows for certain, and director Clint Eastwood does
not offer a definitive answer to any of these questions, which is
exactly as it should be. Life is rarely cut-and-dried, but moviegoers
seem to have forgotten that fact in the face of media that state
speculation as fact on a regular basis.

I find it not only surprising, but distressing, that a major criticism
from those critics who panned the film is the lack of closure on
Hoover's private life. Unless they are truly obtuse, they must realize
that no film could possibly do such a thing, since his files were
destroyed at his own bidding. All is speculation, and a fine
speculation it is. Leonardo DiCaprio is superb (as usual) in the title
role, never revealing more cards then he chooses to at any given
moment. He receives fine support from Armie Hammer as Clyde Tolson,
Hoover's Second in Command/Rumored Lover, and Naomi Watts as his
endlessly loyal private secretary Helen Gandy. At a time when "red
fever" ran high, Hoover's relentlessly tightening control on government
investigations is shown in flashbacks that only underscore how supreme
power can corrupt even the noblest of intentions.

In the end, the film answers none of the questions that seem so
important to the very critics that disliked it, but in my humble
opinion, a well made film is one that inspires debate or discussion
rather than simply hand down a definitive 'this is the way it was' with
an imperious gavel. With "J Edgar", Eastwood and his cast have
succeeded well.
<|_=00=_|>
In Clint Eastwood's latest biopic J. Edgar, we delve into the personal
life of one of the most powerful and enigmatic figures of the 20th
century. We are shown pieces of a man who was scared, confused, and
extremely intelligent. He knew how to cater to the media, but his
personal life was shrouded in secrecy. It could be argued that J. Edgar
himself wasn't quite sure of who he was.

Leonardo DiCaprio stars as Hoover. We see him evolve from a young
upstart in the US Justice Department to the head of the FBI. DiCaprio
portrays a man of man faults, though not entirely through his own
doing. He overcame a speech impediment, grew up virtually without a
father, and had difficulty expressing himself socially and sexually.
Through DiCaprio's performance, we see just that, a man with a head on
his shoulders, only confiding in those few people he trusted.

In his inner circle was Helen Gandy (Naoimi Watts), his personal
secretary and keeper of Hoover's private files. Her commitment to
Hoover knew no bounds. His right hand man, Clyde Tolson (Armie Hammer),
was, on paper, not the right person to become Hoover's 2nd in command,
but Hoover saw something in Tolson that made him feel comfortable. From
what we see on film, Tolson was more than a friend, more than a
partner. He had no title for Hoover. He was invaluable.

The center of Hoover's world, however, was his mother Annie (Judi
Dench). A stern yet loving woman, she knew what Hoover needed to be
successful. Her approval meant so much to him, and the thought of
letting her down was unfathomable. That would wreak havoc on his
private life throughout his life.

Hoover's appointment as head of the FBI would last for nearly half a
decade. In that time he saw our country through several wars, the "red
scare," gangsters, and a presidential assassination. To compile his
ever major decision would make for a great documentary series, but to
compress it all into a movie under 2 1/2 hours, Eastwood utilizes
recent Oscar winning screenwriter Dustin Lance Black (Milk) to pen the
script. What Black does is paint a picture of Hoover not as the head of
the FBI, but as a man whose image was so out of whack that he himself
had trouble distinguishing fact from fiction.

The film constructed in a way that we are told the story of Hoover's
life through Hoover's own words, not from a general point of view. What
makes this so effective is that we aren't sure of how certain events
actually transpired, making the story, and in effect history, somewhat
clouded, much like the image of Hoover himself.

This image of Hoover has been dissected and speculated for years. Was
he a homosexual? What secrets did he take to the grave? Was he involved
in any conspiracies? These questions are touched upon, but never fully
answered. What we are left with is a portrait of a man left unfinished,
much like the painting of Washington we see several times throughout
the film. Like the painting, Hoover is a man incomplete. That painting
is a reminder to him that even though he is incomplete he can still
make a difference.

Some of the strengths of the film are also its weaknesses. The story
itself if fascinating, but it tends to drag on. It reminded me of The
Good Shepherd. A really good story with great characters based on true
events, just nothing extraordinary. The acting too is well done but,
for me at least, I had a hard time not seeing Leonardo DiCaprio as
Hoover, especially with the makeup. Part of it, especially with
DiCaprio, is his voice. He has such a unique way of speaking and he has
trouble disguising it. His character also reminded me of his
performance in The Aviator.

The acting on the whole, especially Hammer and Dench (I expect nods for
both and DiCaprio as well), is well above average. Eastwood always
manages to extract prime performances from his actors, including when
he is acting. Eastwood also continues his work behind the scenes by
composing the score, his seventh feature length scoring composition.
Like his other composition, there's a heavy, moody, jazzy undertone. He
doesn't overpower us with large orchestral compositions. Instead he
utilizes strings, piano, and a few horns to accent the images.
<|_=00=_|>
It can happen to the best of us. Spielberg, Scorsese, Hitchcock, and
even Clint Eastwood himself are capable of making an
instantly-dismissible picture. Sometimes, it seems, a director will
find himself in a project without much of a passion for it and looking
at the final product, it's kind of hard to see his signature on the
screen. That is the case with Mr. Eastwood's biopic on the life of J.
Edgar Hoover. The movie, "J. Edgar", is everything I did not expect
from Mr. Eastwood considering the deep, thought-provocative and
artistic power of his last movie "Hereafter" as well as the many films
that he made beforehand. Slow, pretentious, and middling.

Many actors have played the infamous FBI founder over the years (once
by Hoover himself, in the 1959 James Stewart movie "The FBI Story").
This time, the role goes to Leonardo DiCaprio. Unfortunately, it seems,
his feelings about the movie seemed to be identical to Mr. Eastwood's,
as he merely ham-acts throughout the entirety of the movie. The only
thing differentiating his performance from scene-to-scene depends on
how much phony make-up has been slapped on his face. It's sort of like
a "Citizen Kane" portrait of a real-life figure, starting around the
time of the man's death and whisking back and forth between the past
and the present. Except whereas that great Orson Welles film from
seventy years ago did it with precision and aesthetic greatness, the
narrative of "J. Edgar" takes such vast leaps that it frequently falls
flat on its face.

The screenplay was written by Dustin Lance Black, who won the Oscar for
Best Screenplay for "Milk." Once again, he more or less writes this
story more as a vessel for a homosexual romance and rights message. And
it is here that he strikes his intended gold. Hoover's lover, his
right-hand man Clyde Tolson, is played with immense passion by Armie
Hammer. And it is the scenes between Mr. Hammer and Mr. DiCaprio that
work. A particularly great scene involves the two secret lovers sharing
a dinner table with some flirtatious Hollywood starlets and nervously
trying to shake off the ladies' sexual advances without giving
themselves away. Also fascinating and frightful is a confrontation
about homosexuality between Mr. DiCaprio and Judi Dench as Hoover's
mother.

So it is in this soulful subplot that Mr. Black's screenplay works, but
when he tries to form a narrative arc about the lifetime of J. Edgar
Hoover and bounce across decades in a coherent manner, it starts to
struggle. Furthermore, apart from the love subplot, there is no
chemistry between the characters. Naomi Watts, as Hoover's secretary,
is given such insignificant things to do that she may as well have been
an extra.

Earlier I mentioned that a passionless project even by a great
director, will appear to lose its creators' signature and that is no
more evident than in here. Mr. Eastwood's directing, though hardly bad,
is rather dull with too many long shots and ponderous slow zooms. And
while Leonardo DiCaprio was an inspired choice to play J. Edgar Hoover,
he does it almost playfully, without much soul or conviction. Most
embarrassing of all is the forced accent with which he enunciates the
dialogue. Capped with some truly horrific make-up, when playing the
elderly Hoover, the actor appears to be giving a comic stand-up
performance at a nightclub. Reputedly, Mr. DiCaprio spent five hours
every morning having the prosthetics applied to his face when playing
the older version of the character. All I can say is that they should
have spent at least six, for the make-up looks like exactly what it is.
And the stuff put on Mr. Hammer for his old-guy moments makes him look
like he belongs in a 30s Universal horror film.

Just as frightful as the makeup is the hack-job cinematography by Tom
Stern. Yes, the same Tom Stern who has lit beautiful images for many of
Clint Eastwood's earlier films, including "Changeling" for which he
deservedly earned an Academy Award nomination. Mr. Stern's specialty
seems to be in low-key lighting. Last year, he did a fabulous job
catching the mood of "Hereafter" with clever use of shadows and
silhouetting lights. But here, he goes overboard. The shadows in "J.
Edgar" are so amateurish and monstrous that (I kid you not) the actors
sometime disappear in them. If there is a symbolic purpose behind this,
I cannot think of it. And other times, the lights are too soft.
Close-ups of characters make them appear to be covered with flour and
worst of all is when the camera tracks into a dark room and
auto-adjusts to the new light...much like a home-video camera.

I never imagined I would see a Clint Eastwood film where I would look
at my watch impatiently before the first hour was even up, but alas the
day has come. "J. Edgar" is a dimwitted, passionless project that
brings almost nothing to our previous knowledge about the formation of
the FBI and the men who made it all possible. Only a couple of sharp,
provocative moments from Dustin Lance Black's screenplay really stand
out. Now Clint Eastwood has made five or six masterpieces during his
forty-year career as a director and about twice as many great films, so
despite my disappointment, I am prepared to allow this one to fade from
my memory.

Not that that would be very hard. If J. Edgar Hoover had a file cabinet
labeled 'Instantly Forgettable,' that is where this film would have
gone.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The best place to start with this
one is by saying what it isn't. It is not a documentary. It is not a
very detailed history lesson. It is not the best biography of the man.
It is not a behind-the-scenes of the FBI. What it is ... another piece
of quality filmmaking from Clint Eastwood. It's an overview of J. Edgar
Hoover and his nearly 50 years of civil service under 8 U.S.
Presidents.

The screenplay is from Dustin Lance Black, who also wrote the script
for Milk, based on the story of Harvey Milk (played by Sean Penn).
Clearly, Eastwood and Black had no interest in setting forth an
historical drama that couldn't possibly be told within a two hour film
structure. No, this is more of a fat-free character study that hits
only a few of the highlights from an enigmatic man's fascinating
career. With so few available details about Hoover's personal life,
some speculation is required ... but Eastwood walks a tightrope so as
to make neither a statement nor mockery.

Therein lies the only problem with the film. While hypnotic to watch,
we are left with an empty feeling when it's over. How can that be? This
man built the foundation of the FBI. He instigated the fingerprint
system. He armed the secret police. His agency tracked down notorious
gangsters. He led an anti-communist movement. He was in the middle of
the investigation for the Lindbergh baby kidnapping. He supposedly kept
secret files on most politicians and celebrities. He viewed the
security of Americans as his responsibility. He was smack dab in the
middle of almost 50 years of American history ... all while being a
power-hungry, paranoid mama's boy who may have been, in her words, a
daffodil.

An elderly Hoover's own words tell his story as he dictates his
memoirs. We are told that his memories of these stories are blurred and
he takes a few liberties to say the least. He longed to be the comic
book hero like his own G-Men. He longed to be recognized for his
contributions, even to the point of desiring a level of celebrity. In
his mind, he was the face of national security and the hero cuffing
many outlaws. In reality, he was also the black-mailing schemer who so
frightened Presidents with his secret files, that all 8 of them backed
off firing him. He could be viewed as the ultimate survivor in a town
where few careers last so long and cross party lines.

The film picks up in 1919 when Hoover is a youngster making a name for
himself as an all-work, no play type. That reputation stuck with him
until the end. When he was first promoted, he hired Helen Gandy (Naomi
Watts)to be his secretary. In one of the most remarkable hires of all
time, she sticks with him until his death in 1972. Staunchly loyal to
Hoover and totally dedicated to her job, Ms. Gandy helped Hoover with
decisions and processes throughout. The other member of his inner
circle was Clyde Tolson (Armie Hammer). Tolson was Hoover's right-hand
man at the bureau, his trusted adviser, his daily lunch partner, and
speculation never ceased on their personal ties.

Judi Dench plays Annie Hoover, J Edgar's controlling mother, who he
lived with until her death. She was also his adviser, supporter and
probably a factor in his stunted social skills. We also get glimpses of
how he dealt with Robert Kennedy (Jeffrey Donovan) and his overall lack
of respect for John Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr. and Richard Nixon.
The Lindbergh case plays a key role because Hoover used it to gain more
power for his bureau and increase funding for weapons, forensic labs
and resources.

As for Leonardo DiCaprio, it's difficult to explain just how
outstanding his performance is. It could have been a caricature, but
instead he affords Hoover the respect his place in history demands. The
50 years of aging through make-up can be startling, especially since
the time lines are mixed up throughout. His speech pattern mimics
Hoover's, as does the growing waist line. There are some Citizen Kane
elements at work in how the story is told and how it's filmed, but
Eastwood wouldn't shy away from such comparisons.

If you want real details on Hoover, there are some very in-depth
biographies out there. The number of documentaries and history books
for this era are limitless. What Eastwood delivers here is an
introduction to J Edgar Hoover. It is interesting enough to watch, and
Leonardo's performance is a must-see, but the film lacks the depth
warranted by the full story.
<|_=00=_|>
Any movie Clint Eastwood makes is certainly worth a look, and Leonardo
DiCaprio is entertaining in anything he does. But this version of J.
Edgar Hoover's story seems superficial, and lacking meat on its bones.

That has more to do with its form  a theatrical film only two hours
and 17 minutes long - relative to the length of the biography at its
core. Hoover was such a complex man, and his career was so long, with
so many chapters, that his story is probably better suited to a 4-to 6
hour HBO mini-series, where more of the details of his life, that this
film with its short running time can only hint at, can be more
completely told.

Dustin Lance Black, who wrote this film's screenplay (as well as that
of Milk), is walking a very fine line here regarding Hoover's complex
personality; it seems that he had a much more intricate story he wanted
to tell, were it not for the confines of the feature film format. Here,
broad brush strokes take the place of long chapters on Hoover's
involvement with the Red Scares of the '20's and '50's, political
blackmail, gambling, organized crime, and of course, homosexuality.

But if it had been made as a mini-series, it probably wouldn't have
attracted Eastwood and DiCaprio, and consequently wouldn't have the
high profile that this film does. That version of his story will have
to wait for another time.

Eastwood chose to shoot this story in a washed-out color palette. The
story jumps back in forth in time, and the closer the events of the
film are to the end of Hoover's life, the more color Eastwood imbues
into the scenes; the earliest moments in the time line are shown in a
color scheme barely above monochrome. It's a subtle effect, but it
helps the viewer keep track of where the scenes exist in Hoover's life.

That long time line necessitates that DiCaprio must be seen in various
makeup schemes to convey the age of his character at any point in the
story. His makeup is uniformly good; but the two other principal actors
in the film, Armie Hammer as Hoover's longtime companion Clyde Tolson,
and Naomi Watts as Hoover's secretary Helen Gandy, don't fare so well
as their characters age. Obviously, the lion's share of the film's
makeup budget was allotted to the star. Hammer, it must be said, gives
a fine performance under all those old-age prosthetics. Christopher
Shyer, who plays Richard Nixon in a brief scene, has the
least-effective verisimilitude of anyone who has played the man in a
motion picture.

But makeup alone does not a performance make. Di Caprio's ability to
remain in character and "age" with him is remarkable, and transcends
the work of his makeup artist. As he did with his portrayal of Howard
Hughes in The Aviator, his skillful use of voice and body to stay true
to his characterization of Hoover through the years is evident
throughout.

One gets the feeling that much of this film was shot in front of a
green screen, no surprise given the various eras of Washington that it
depicts; but to a longtime moviegoer, there's a certain sadness that
imparts to seeing that technique, once the province of the large-scale
action film, used in serious dramas. There was probably no other way to
do it in this day and age, but it just calls attention to itself in a
way that gets in the way of one's immersion into the subject matter.
Admittedly, that's my problem, not the film's.

So, is it worth a look? Sure. Best Picture nominee? In a field of ten,
probably. Will Leo finally win an Oscar this time out? Well, look at it
this way: Paul Newman gave his best performance in The Verdict, but the
Academy finally honored him for The Color of Money. Leo probably should
have won for playing Howard Hughes, but maybe he'll win for playing J.
Edgar.
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood's boldness and creativity paid off in this excellent
portrayal of J. Edgar Hoover's life. A project like that is not pulled
off by just anyone, and the fact that a film like that was even made
shows the importance of Clint Eastwood. His direction was marvelous, by
the way, showing without fear the dark side of the FBI director, but
also showing all the good aspects of this very interesting subject.
Leonardo DiCaprio is another great reason to watch the film, in one of
the most moving performances in his career. His portrayal of a Hoover
both ruthless and emotionally vulnerable was superb, and he has
excelled once again in studying the character. The make up must also be
praised for allowing DiCaprio to portrayal Hoover in many different
stages of his life. J. Edgar, if not Clint's best work, is a very
interesting and moving film, and the fact that it is so
under-appreciated is a mystery to me.
<|_=00=_|>
Snipets of history and then a tabloid romance that, in its day, was
made of rumor and innuendo. A psychotic, paranoid schizophrenic, as I
see it, head of the most powerful Federal Bureau Of Investigation,
corrupted by his own power and his obsession with secrecy is a
character worthy of Peter Lorre but in this new outing of the prolific
Clint Eastwood, J Edgar Hoover is Leonardo DiCaprio! I love both
DiCaprio and Eastwood but not in this. I love DiCaprio for Gilbert
Grape and Eastwood for The Outlaw Josey Wales and Unforgiven. Here they
are both out of their depths. Long, boring film with terrible aging
make-up and no real center. The most unexpected aspect was the time
dedicated to the romance between J Edgar and Clyde Tolson. It humanized
the man without revealing him. That's almost cheating.
<|_=00=_|>
American actor, producer, composer and director Clint Eastwood's
thirty-third feature film is an American production which was written
by screenwriter Dustin Lance Black. It tells the story about J. Edgar
Hoover (1895-1972), who grew up with his two elder siblings in the
Capitol Hill neighbourhood of Washington. In 1917, after receiving his
Master of Laws degree at the George Washington University, he was hired
as a clerk by the Justice Departement where he meet Helen W. Gandy
(1897-1988) who would become his personal secretary. J. Edgar Hoover
was a very private, secretive and ambitious man who was totally
dedicated to his job. He lived with his mother Anne Marie and didn't
have much of a social life, but in 1924, J. Edgar Hoover became the
first director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and during this
period he meet a confidential secretary for the Secretary of War named
Clyde Tolson (1900-1975), whom he hired as his vice director. 

This biographical period film depicts J. Edgar Hoover's participation
in the extensive investigation of the kidnapping of the one-year-old
son of aviators Charles Lindbergh (1902-1974) and Anne Morrow Lindbergh
(1906-2001), which took place in 1932, his ongoing fight against crime
and communism, his private search for information which he could use to
blackmail senator Robert F. Kennedy (1925-1968) and his unjustified
attempts at undermining the reputation of American activist and civil
rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr (1929-1968). Precisely and
engagingly directed and with a tightly structured narrative, this
detailed and descriptive portrayal of a multifaceted man with some very
bright and some very dark attributes draws an intriguing study of
character with poignant depictions of the main character's relationship
with his encouraging mother Anne Marie Scheitlin Hoover (1860-1938),
his relationship with his loyal secretary Helen W. Gandy and a poignant
though ambiguous depiction of his relationship with his devoted friend
Clyde Tolson.

This fast-paced and dialog-driven drama is notable for its austere
atmosphere which is reinforced by the prominent use of light and Clint
Eastwood's tangible score, and the reverent acting performances by
English actress Naomi Watts, English actress Judi Dench, American actor
Armie Hammer and especially Leonardo DiCaprio, who delivers a variable
and emphatic acting performance in an atypical role where he is
transformed by the make-up. A dark and gripping mystery and crime story
which is complimented by a low-keyed love story.
