
I saw Mirror Mirror in theaters back in April with my niece, but I just
decided to write something on it because it has come under a lot of
criticism and honestly I don't know why.I saw a lot of negativity on
YouTube and many other places so it got me to thinking what really is
the problem with movies geared more toward children? 

I think fairy tales should bring out the little kid in everybody, but
I've noticed that some people find it hard to revert back to their
childhood or innocence because they think it's cheesy or corny.And with
the recent comparisons between the two Snow Whites (Mirror vs.Snow
White & the Huntsman) it has gotten more and more ridiculous.There has
already been a dark-version of Snow White (Tale of Terror) if anyone
remembers so there has been done already. A comedic version is
interesting and new.

I can only comment on Mirror Mirror because I saw it and I enjoyed it.
Snow White (Lily Collins) is treated horribly by her wicked stepmother
The Queen (Julia Roberts) who is ruling the kingdom since her father's
mysterious death. Somehow with the help of the dwarfs and the Prince
(Armie Hammer), Snow White begins to believe in herself and realizes
she has the strength to fight off the wicked Queen.

It was a really nice retelling of Snow White because it was a coming of
age story. Never knew who Lily Collins was before this movie, but I
think she was spot-on as Snow White. She has this innocent beauty that
was perfect for Snow White, but she also was courageous, which is a
great role model for young girls nowadays. Might I add, her eyebrows
fit her and there is nothing wrong with them as I've seen nasty
comments about it. They add distinction to her face.

The Prince was really comical and funny. Had me laughing a lot. Never
knew who Armie Hammer was before this movie also. I liked him because
it was the opposite from Disney Princes who usually are perfect in
every way without flaws. They can sing, dance,and sword fight, but he
was pretty dense in a way, but it actually suited the movie and it was
intended to be that way.

Last but not least, Julia Roberts was divine as the wicked Queen.
Honestly, I love her bitchy and sneering her nose at everyone. Julia is
usually seen as this sweetheart but it was great to see this side of
her. I liked her little on and off British accent too and her pompous
narration to the story.

Love the dwarfs, they had absolutely the best one liners. They were
modern and jazzed stuff up.

So again I add, every movie does not have to be sinister and Hannibal
Lector evil for it to be considered a good movie. Nor does it have to
have The Hangover- type jokes and vulgarity to be considered worthy of
laughter.

The critics can go to hell on this one. I will watch this movie again
and again, especially with my niece.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my 11 yr old niece to see this movie and we both loved it. Good
clean family fun. Nice to walk out of a movie singing and dancing for a
change...... Julia Roberts is hilarious, Nathan Lane even more so and
the rest of the cast endearing. Seems if a movie doesn't have violence
or sex, not many like it. That is so sad.... life should be fun
sometimes and this movie made us feel uplifted and happy.

Thanks Julia and Nathan..... I am not familiar with the actress that
played Snow White or the Prince but they were both adorable and funny.

This movie was entertaining for any age, full of action, surprises and
humor..... go see it, don't let the nay sayers keep you away.
<|_=00=_|>
OK - so this is a major re-working of Snow White and in fact you could
say that it is an entirely different story...bar the principle
character names. But to read some of the comments here would be to be
mis-led in the extreme in my terribly humble opinion. Not being a huge
Ms Roberts fan I was unsure as to how I would react to her as a
dominant player in fable setting - but she was capable and trod a fine
line between villainy and comedy that worked. Of the other characters -
as has been noted Snow White stole the show and was a capable lead and
will doubtless go on to far grander things. But the actors delivering
the Dwarf story-line were also in keeping with the piece - OK not
hugely polished but capable of delivering in the contexts of fantasy.
But the real reason for leaving this review is really because of my
kids - they loved it. They were scared, amused, excited and involved
throughout the film and left having sat through the credit dance
sequence first. And frankly it is a film aimed more at them than most
reviewers here. So let's not be too sniffy about "truth" or
"thespianism" or indeed "realism" - this is a young persons film and
looked great, didn't patronise them and had some great ideas brought to
life - not always successfully but with a touch of humour and
imagination so in my book it's a winner and not to be judged too
harshly.
<|_=00=_|>
First off: See this with a good set of friends. Half of the charm for
me was turning to my best friends and seeing the look of horror on
their faces when they realized what I had dragged them to. Here are the
reasons I like this:

A. Costumes were cute. They were supposed to be wild and outlandish but
I found myself really strangely attracted to the dresses. B. Julia
Roberts who? The dwarfs were where it was at! They completely stole the
show. C. It's not supposed to be "stick to the storyline" type of deal
because it's not serious and doesn't take itself too seriously. D. Lily
was adorable. With that sort of big name character it's really hard to
keep it simple like she did. E. The innuendos that the children don't
understand will crack you up and no worries parents... they won't pick
up on them. F. People said it was bad. This might be the hipster in me
but... I was really glad that I didn't think it was.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to IMDb to read reviews of this movie before seeing it. What I
read was not too encouraging so I had fairly low expectations. Boy, was
I surprised to find myself smiling throughout the film while my
daughter and I nudged each other to comment on how much we liked it!
Julie Roberts and Nathan Lane make a stellar duo, and every role was so
well cast. Conceptually, I was thrilled with the visuals, the costuming
and computer animated sets and special effects. Any changes made to the
original story were in my opinion quite clever. The surprise Bollywood
number at the end cinched it for me! Take your family to see this
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this movie expecting another "fairy tale" movie. So I was
pleasantly surprised when the plot took a turn for the unexpected. I
loved how the writers used adult humor to keep audience attention. In
addition, the graphics were surprisingly creative; especially when it
came to the 7 dwarfs. I didn't feel like I was watching an old fable
play out on the big screen. Instead, I felt that I was being told the
story of Snow White for the very first time. I would recommend this
movie to anyone with a sense of humor, and an appreciation for creative
graphics. If you think you are going to fall asleep in this movie,
think again! Mirror Mirror is a great tale for all.
<|_=00=_|>
In this variation on the Snow White story, most of the familiar
elements are in place, augmented by the dwarfs being robbers, and the
Wicked Queen having designs on the Prince (with a view to topping up
the old Exchequer).

Julia Roberts, for whom I do not care, plays the Wicked Queen and plays
her very well. Lily Collins (daughter of Phil) plays Snow White, and
Armie Hammer plays the Prince.

This film cleverly balances a fairly faithful retelling of the story
with a simultaneous gently subversive deconstruction, and I must praise
the script right from the start: it is both clever and funny. The film
looks terrific. Roberts is, as already mentioned, very good, and Lily
Collins is an absolute delight, sweet and vulnerable, yet also with a
degree of feistiness. She is also one of those rare young women whose
face is lit up when she smiles. The dwarfs and the Prince are all very
funny.

This film is charming and delightful, and has a number of surprises,
some of which are a treat (the poisoned apple, and the musical ending,
to name but two). I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading some of the negative reviews, I pretty much did not
expect much out of this movie. While this is indeed a rather boring
movie for adults, I did enjoy the show more than I had expected.

The story is simple and easy to understand, with a few twist here and
there. Admittedly, I did not find the jokes funny at all. Considering
this is a show for kids (correct me if I am wrong), I would have
imagined that kids would love this movie.

Lily Collins is a beautiful young lady with high potential to become a
great actress. The most enjoyable part was probably the ending with
"Ned Stark"
<|_=00=_|>
While this film seems to be perfectly tailored for some audiences, most
discerning viewers will find Mirror Mirror to be lacking depth. Several
plot fixtures are left unexplained, and in general this movie feels
like the writers are trying to shove as many fantasy clichés into one
movie as they can. The movie would undoubtedly have been better had the
writers simply stuck to the original story, but they did not. The
deviation from the classic story was not well done, and in many ways,
it did not make much sense. 

On a positive note, the acting was refreshingly good, particularly on
the part of Julia Roberts. Roberts played the sinister queen quite
excellently, adding a seething sarcasm to each line. Along with the
acting, the aesthetics were good. Makeup could have been better, but
costuming was very well done, and it played a large part in making the
movie coherent. 

In short, the positive qualities of this film were not nearly enough to
make up for the awkward timing, unexplained plot mechanisms, mediocre
dialogue, and unworkable mixture of different fantasy clichés. My
suggestion is that you go see something else.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie and everyone in the theater was clapping
at the end. I do not believe that I have seen a standing ovation before
in a movie theater that didn't have a live performance. It was humorous
and dramatic and silly and I just loved it! Julia Roberts was devious
and cunning with a wacky edge to her part! Lilly Collins is absolutely
gorgeous just as I imagined Snow White should look. The Prince's demise
was hysterical and the dwarfs were the perfect touch to this version of
Snow White. I liked this version better than the Disney movie! Mirror
Mirror was absolutely entertaining! I WILL BUY THIS ONE WHEN IT COMES
OUT ON DVD or BLU-RAY!
