
Everything you were expecting ... except it isn't. Their Finest is very
coherent, with simple yet relatable and sympathetic characters, the
story moves forward as a reaction of the universe and is not
necessarily character-driven, with conflict usually being originated
from authority figures such as the producers/the studio. Their Finest
not only uses the war to drive the plot forward and smartly show how it
constantly affects the characters, but also makes a statement on how
studios and producers control the creative process to win the
audience's approval and give a positive image of the allies. The humor
of the film is simple and sometimes silly in a way that it does not
always add anything to the story. That being said, the simplicity of it
does add a nice layer of happiness to a story that is not meant to be
over-dramatic, and Bill Nighy's performance and character nails in the
comedic aspect. Overall, Their Finest is an above-average romantic
film. It is not groundbreaking and might feel like many films we've
seen before, but will please the audience with a romantic story and a
very well thought conclusion that gives a bittersweet aftertaste.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a movie within a movie. I feel in general, a movie about movies is
a good topic for a movie. People love to hear stories about how the
movies works. I know personally I'm a sucker for this type of drama.

Based on a book called Their Finest Hour and a Half, which I think is a
better title, Their Finest stars Gemma Arterton in a movie that takes
place during World War 2 in England, when women join the workforce in
order keep the world going that was coming to a halt do to the
Blitzkrieg. In this case Arterton's character Catrin Cole, a woman
working for a newspaper that leads to an opportunity to write a
screenplay for a movie.

What I like about the movie is that it's a funny story about how a
screenplay is created. They basically hired Catrin Cole to tell the
story of the war from a women's perspective, namely the true story of a
pair of twins who attempted to use their boat to help rescue soldiers
in France, but the true story is not good enough propaganda to get the
citizens of Britain into the cause, so she has to embellish what
happen.

As the writing progressed, they keep getting stopped by someone,
weather it was the producer or The Secretary of War to add new things
so that they can appeal to the masses, a very interesting process made
hilarious by the movie.

The whole film is a satire on the film industry of 1940s Great Britain
that's still true today. Their Finest also has some romance in it, as
Cartin becomes attracted to her fellow writer on the screenplay, Tom
Buckley. The film is also a good example about how female roles in
society started to shift during World War II.

Bill Nighy was as fun to watch as I was told. He plays an aging actor
finding his popularity is stuck on something he did years ago, and like
Catin finds an opportunity within the war.

Overall, I really enjoined the movie. Gemma Arterton made a really good
lead actress and the movie altogether was a great story.

http://cinemagardens.com
<|_=00=_|>
In a well-mined category, "Their Finest" is a World War 2 comedy/drama
telling a tale I haven't seen told before: the story behind the British
Ministry of Information and their drive to produce propaganda films
that support morale and promote positive messages in a time of national
crisis. For it is 1940 and London is under nightly attack by the
Luftwaffe during the time known as "The Blitz". Unfortunately the
Ministry is run by a bunch of toffs, and their output is laughably
misaligned with the working class population, and especially the female
population:  with their husbands fighting overseas, these two groups
are fast becoming one and the same. For women are finding and enjoying
new empowerment and freedom in being socially unshackled from the
kitchen sink. 

Enter Catrin Cole (Gemma Arterton, "The Girl with all the Gifts") who
is one such woman arriving to a dangerous London from South Wales to
live with struggling disabled artist Ellis (Jack Huston, grandson of
John Huston). Catrin, stretching the truth a little, brings a stirring
'true' tale of derring-do about the Dunkirk evacuation to the
Ministry's attention. She is then employed to "write the slop" (the
woman's dialogue) in the writing team headed by spiky Tom Buckley (Sam
Claflin, "Me Before You").

One of the stars of the film within the film is 'Uncle Frank' played by
the aging but charismatic actor Ambrose Hilliard (Bill Nighy, "Dad's
Army", "Love Actually"). Catrin proves her worth by pouring oil on
troubled waters as the army insist on the introduction of an American
airman (Jake Lacy, "Carol") to the stressful mix. An attraction builds
between Catrin and Tom, but how will the love triangle resolve itself?

As you might expect if you've seen the trailer the film is, in the
main, warm and funny with Gemma Arterton just gorgeously huggable as
the determined young lady trying to make it in a misogynistic 40's
world of work. Arterton is just the perfect "girl next door". But mixed
in with the humour and the romantic storyline is a harsh sprinkling of
the trials of war and not a little heartbreak occurs.  This is at least
a 5 tissue movie. 

Claflin, who is having a strong year with appearances in a wide range
of films, is also eminently watchable. One of his best scenes is a
speech with Arterton about "why people love the movies", a theory that
the film merrily and memorably drives a stake through the heart of!  

Elsewhere Lacy is hilarious as the hapless airman with zero acting
ability; Helen McCrory ("Harry Potter") as Sophie Smith vamps it up
wonderfully as the potential Polish love interest for Hilliard; Richard
E Grant ("Logan") and Jeremy Irons ("The Lion King", "Die Hard: with a
Vengeance") pop up in useful cameos and Eddie Marsan ("Sherlock
Holmes") is also touching as Hilliard's long-suffering agent. 

But it is Bill Nighy's Hilliard who carries most of the wit and humour
of the film with his pompous thespian persona, basking in the dwindling
glory of a much loved series of "Inspector Lynley" films. With his
pomposity progressively warming under the thawing effect of Sophie and
Catrin, you have to love him!  Bill Nighy is, well, Bill Nighy. Hugh
Grant gets it (unfairly) in the neck for "being Hugh Grant" in every
film, but this pales in comparison with Nighy's performances!  But who
cares: his kooky delivery is just delightful and he is a national
treasure!

Slightly less convincing for me was Rachael Stirling's role as a butch
ministry busybody with more than a hint of the lesbian about her. 
Stirling's performance in the role is fine, but would this really have
been so blatant in 1940's Britain?  This didn't really ring true for
me. 

While the film gamely tries to pull off London in the Blitz the film's
limited budget (around £25m) makes everything feel a little
underpowered and 'empty':  a few hundred more extras in the
Underground/Blitz scenes for example would have helped no end. 

However, the special effects crew do their best and the cinematography
by Sebastian Blenkov ("The Riot Club") suitably conveys the mood:  a
scene where Catrin gets caught in a bomb blast outside a clothes shop
is particularly moving.

As with all comedy dramas, sometimes the bedfellows lie uncomfortably
with each other, and a couple of plot twists: one highly predictable;
one shockingly unpredictable make this a non-linear watch. This
roller-coaster of a script by Gaby Chiappe, in an excellent feature
film debut (she actually also has a cameo in the propaganda "carrot
film"!), undeniably adds interest and makes the film more memorable.
However (I know from personal experience) that the twist did not please
everyone in the audience! 

Despite its occasionally uneven tone, this is a really enjoyable watch
(particularly for more mature audiences) and Danish director Lone
Scherfig finally has a vehicle that matches the quality of her much
praised Carey Mulligan vehicle "An Education".

(For the graphical version of this review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
The story of a movie withing the movie during World War II. A lady has
to be a part of the script writing for a movie.

The movie is said to be a feminist comedy drama and I was lucky enough
to watch the Red Carpet Premiere at the Dubai International Film
Festival along with the Director (Lone Scherfig), producer and actor
(Bill Nighy).

Definitely a beautiful period movie with a some slight comic bits here
and there, blended with heart touching sentimental scenes. Beautiful
visuals; sound design and set design are wonderful. The performance of
the actors are added to the quality of the movie.

As the movie movies towards the cliché of a Hollywood ending, the
director decides the other way. A major shocking twist.

An unforgettable movie that will leave a mark in your heart. A must
watch and highly recommended. 

#KiduMovie
<|_=00=_|>
"They're afraid they won't be able to put us back in the box when this
is over, and it makes them belligerent." Phyl Moore (Rachael Stirling)

Phyl is spot on about the focus of Their Finest, a period piece (1940)
about the British film industry's part in supporting WWII. The heart of
this sometimes comic romance is Catrin's (Gemma Arterton) emergence
from secretary to writer in a time when women were expected to be no
more than secretaries. Of course, they would no more be "in the box"
after the war.

Comic moments are plentiful, especially when aging actor Ambrose
Hilliard (Bill Nighy at his best) is on screen. He is in a company
producing a propaganda film to support the war and perhaps induce the
USA to enter the war. Although seeing the inventive ways the industry
created special effects and worked through themes would be a reason for
a cinephile to see this film, the higher takeaway is the growing
empowerment of Catrin, and all women, not just in Britain but
everywhere.

She has a growing affection for fellow writer Ellis (Jack HustonYes,
that Huston grandson), slow and so British reserved that it is one of
the best romances of the year. Although I have reservations about a
woman needing a man to be successful, this romance is authentic because
it grows like ripening fruit, no passion or flowery bombast to speed it
along.

Beyond the romance and the mechanics of early filmmaking, the art of
writing is satisfactorily treated, in fact one of the first times I
have seen it depicted as a communal effort. Besides, I love seeing
ideas and dialogue worked out among the team without overly-dramatic
flourishes but rather with the kind of quiet discovery that may have
occurred with any successful team effort.

Their Finest is part old-fashioned filmmaking with sentiment and sense
overlaid by a progressive theme showing the ascendancy of women in WWII
beyond "Rosie the Riveter." You'll cry a little, you'll laugh a little,
and you'll nod your head a little in admiration of the contributions
made in big wars by this marvelous art form, film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Their Finest" is a clever, charming and funny movie from Danish
director Lone Scherfig. Adding to her most well-known films to date,
"An Education" and "The Riot Club", it is clear that Scherfig is a true
Anglophile at heart, as this is as British as it comes. The film tells
the story of Catrin Cole (Gemma Arterton), a Welsh secretary in London
at the height of the Blitz who finds herself on the writing staff of a
propaganda film about the Dunkirk evacuation. Though married to a
struggling artist (Jack Huston), feelings grow between Catrin and
fellow writer Buckley (Sam Claflin) as they struggle to make "The Nancy
Starling" a film worthy of raising the nation's spirits.

One of the strengths of "Their Finest" is its glorious sense of place
and time. The locations and production design provide a real asset. The
daily threat of the Blitz is rightly given sufficient screen time to
feel like an ever-present menace, while wartime London and an idyllic
Cornish coast are well realised.

"Their Finest" is at its best when the the lines between the movie we
are watching and the movie being produced on screen are blurred. We see
the characters and plot of "The Nancy Starling" evolve within Catrin's
mind in a series of comic scenes which give Bill Nighy's character,
ageing actor Ambrose Hilliard, some of his best moments. In one
particularly inspired moment, the continuation of a real conversation
between the romantic pair is imagined in the same visual style of the
on-screen movie. The writers and director clearly had a lot of fun with
these ideas and their execution is spot on. The creators' love of
cinema is realised in a way only possible in a film about film-making
and film-watching. The emotions of an audience watching "The Nancy
Starling" in the film clearly capture the joy the writers and director
take from cinema in general, and it's very infectious! 

Arterton plays the lead role very capably, creating a likable
protagonist. Among the most memorable performances, Bill Nighy plays
himself very well (it's difficult to imagine who could have played him
better), and Rachael Stirling shines but is sadly underused. Jake Lacy
is also entertaining as the square-jawed American who turns out to be a
terrible actor. The film possibly suffers from the distracting addition
of star cameos (Jeremy Irons popping up here for a single scene), a
fault I find particularly noticeable in British films of this style.

The key fault for me was that the film seemed unsure which of its two
main plot-lines, the making of "The Nancy Starling" and the romance
between Catrin and Buckley, should take centre-stage. Developing both
meant that the beginning and the end of the film suffered. Initially
the film needed to introduce lots of only partially related themes and
concepts, which made the opening scenes feel artificially and
dissatisfyingly forced together. The need to conclude both threads
produced more than a few false endings which certainly made the film
feel its length. The competition between story-lines also meant that
some of the supporting characters, particularly Jack Huston's suffering
artist, did not receive the attention they needed to give enough weight
to their plot contributions. Even Buckley, one of the key players,
didn't seem quite fleshed out enough, though this is not helped by the
poor chemistry between Sam Claflin and Gemma Arterton.

At its best though, "Their Finest" is a wonderful send-up of propaganda
movie-making of the 1940s and a worthy war film in its own right.
<|_=00=_|>
Their Finest (2016) is one of several recent films that remediate
women's conspicuous absence from war history. It stands tall in the war
film genre, as well as in period drama and feminist film. With
beautiful cinematography, it nostalgically evokes the tensions and
deprivations of London in 1940. At the same time, it provides an
instructive insight into the making of a war propaganda movie in the
early days of film history.

The two-part plot line is based on the experiences of young Welshwoman
Catrin Cole (Gemma Arterton) who unexpectedly lands a movie
scriptwriting job in the British Ministry of Information. The first
half of Their Finest is about the planning of a movie for boosting
morale and support for the war; the second is its actual filming. The
thread of continuity is Catrin's relationships; first with her
war-damaged artist lover Ellis Cole (Jack Huston) and then her senior
scriptwriter Tom Buckley (Sam Claflin). Catrin has been hired to write
"the slops", a term used to describe women's interests and views. In
wartime, things change unexpectedly and the movie shifts from an
emphasis on women, to a general rallying call to the nation, and then
to an appeal to America to join the war. The casting of stars shifts
from heroines to a past-his-prime actor Ambrose Hilliard (Bill Nighy)
to an American fighter pilot who turns out to have appalling acting
skills. By the end of Their Finest, we are watching the finished movie
being screened in public having witnessed how it was made and the
effect it has on the people involved.

The making of a war movie within a war film is an original and clever
cinematic construction. The storyboarding, casting, and filming of the
movie provide self-reflexive insights into movie-making itself. This is
a multi-genre film, combining war and filmmaking history, period drama
and romance, but it's inaccurate to call it a comedy. Most of the
humour comes from Bill Nighy's portrayal of the pompous British
artistic classes and his fading light as an actor. In an otherwise
well-directed film, Nighy often overshadows its star, Gemma Arterton,
who is the film's beating heart and champion for women. Nighy has that
rare ability to fill any space into which he walks, but this means that
the film's excellent cast shine only when he is off screen.

There are many reasons for liking this film, including its originality,
acting and filming. It poignantly captures the fragility of life in the
London Blitz with detailed attention to nostalgic sets, costumes, and
mannerisms of an era. The colour palette's de-saturated tonality
reflects the sombre mood of the nation and the narrative covers a lot
of ground. It is ironic, however, that a film dedicated to recognising
the role of women in history should be so under the comedic influence
of a veteran male actor. Despite its efforts to be otherwise, this will
be remembered as a Bill Nighy film. For many, that's not a bad thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Being Danish myself, I am familiar with former work done by Lone
Scherfig and by her relatives (Hans Scherfig; Det forsømte forår) and I
must say I enjoy it when I feel the film has (the) European touch to
it. Also having read the book the film was adapted on 'Their finest
hour and a half' by Lissa Evans, I was not disappointed. Nevertheless. 

Having said this, I really enjoyed watching 'Their Finest' with its
wonderful cast: Gemma Arterton portrays Catrin Cole to perfection, she
looks and acts (behaves) exactly how I was imagining Catrin, when
reading the book. Her persona is perfect for a film set in the 1940s.
Bill Nighy is, as always, fantastic. His performance in this film is a
balance of being perfectly funny and miserable, on spot for a character
like Hilliard. And not to forget, Mr. Sam Claflin, stunning and
charming as he is, his character 'Tom Buckley' has it too.

All in all, I must say I really enjoyed watching 'Their Finest', having
a, sometimes, nerdy approach to the history of the world wars means
when watching a film with ww2 settings and the London Blitz, as 'Their
finest' have, that beautifully shows how to mix history, horror and
love, it simply gives an amazing feeling. The film touches every shade
of feeling of the palette and (most likely) has you crying with both
sorrow and happiness, feeling nervous, excited and understanding with
the Tom Buckley-plot twist in the end. I will admit, it had me feeling
lost in the moment but after having ''swallowed'' and analyzed the
message behind it and what happened with Catrin's character next, I
became more understanding and accepting of Tom's fate. 

As I wrote earlier, 'Their Finest' is a film that has your feelings and
senses mixing up throughout the entire film and if you enjoy a love
story and/or has an interest in the art of film making and in the
history of the World wars, most definitely should you watch this film.
I can and will definitely recommend this film to my peers.

- Michelle Jensen, Copenhagen.
<|_=00=_|>
(RATING: ☆☆☆☆ out of 5 ) 

GRADE: B 

THIS FILM IS RECOMMENDED.

IN BRIEF: A well acted and thoroughly entertaining war story.

SYNOPSIS: During World War II, a secretary joins a movie crew to make a
propaganda film about Dunkirk.

JIM'S REVIEW: Let's face it, with a film entitled Their Finest, the bar
is set mighty high. And while the film is not the finest film you will
ever see, it is still a fine film worthy of one's attention. It boasts
very good acting, a literate script, strong direction and period
details, and an intriguing premise. Not all of these elements works as
a whole, but the parts are genuinely compelling.

￼A movie production crew wants to tell "a story that will inspire the
world". These are desperate times, in 1940 war-town London. Public
spirits is low and the government wants the entertainment industry to
provide a more positive uplift to the doom and glory that is an
everyday occurrence for the English folk by creating a propaganda film
to unite the country. Thrown into the mix of creative souls is Catrin
Cole (Gemma Arterton), a former secretary hired as a screenwriter to
bring a more authentic woman's point of view. It is there she meets Tom
Buckley (Sam Clafin), a cynical talented writer, although she is
involved with Ellis Cole (Jack Huston) an egotistical artist. But duty
calls and Catrin has found her calling, both professionally and
personally.

Also on the set is Phyl Moore (Rachael Stirling), a tough-as-nails
Rosalind Russell type, Carl Lundbeck (Jake Lacy), an American war hero
turned actor ala Audie Murphy (with even less talent), and a washed-up
matinée idol, Ambrose Hilliard (the reliable Bill Nighy). Adding more
prestige to this movie-within-a-movie are such steadfast British stars
as Richard E. Grant, Jeremy Irons, and Eddie Marsan, although their
contributions are mere cameo walk-ons. All of the actors are superb,
even if some of their roles are underwritten.

￼The film, when always entertaining, is in need of a few rewrites. Some
scenes seems out of place and supporting characters lack depth. It
feels as if there are two films vying for the moviegoer's attention:
the down-on-his-luck aging actor in search of a hit, and a tender love
story about two writers who find each other. While both are interesting
and acted to maximum effect, the plot rarely gels, especially with some
contrivances toward the third act. The overall mood varies from comedic
moments to pure melodrama and then serious wartime drama. Lone Scherfig
solidly directs but she doesn't find the right tone and Gaby Chaippe's
screenplay needs to show more realism and edginess rather than seeing
the story through rose-colored glasses.

￼Still, the chemistry between the ill-matched lovers is palpable and
Ms. Arterton and Mr. Clafin make a charming duo. Add the self-effacing
subtlety of Mr. Nighy to add a taste of the bittersweet and Their
Finest is a refreshing change of pace, especially from the usual dregs
of the pre-summer movie season.
<|_=00=_|>
The best that can be said about the film Their Finest - about WWII
propaganda films - is that I didn't walk out. Although I was sorely
tempted to, about halfway through, when I realised how tedious and
sluggish the story and script was. It's set in London during the Blitz,
but where's the tension? Where's the drama? The locations and lighting
and sets are nicely presented, yet the plot and dialogue have the
quality of a polite suburban play. The whole movie doesn't hang
together as a solid piece of work. Gemma Arterton gives a heartfelt go
at her role as budding scriptwriter Catherine Cole. But the actor who
plays her poor artist husband doesn't have much chemistry with her, and
doesn't get much, of interest, to say or do. Jack Huston, as
Catherine's real love interest, fellow writer Ellis, is smart, and also
attempts to give his role some depth. As the faded film star who acts
in the propaganda films, Bill Nighy does his mildly amusing Bill Nighy
schtick. You can imagine him as a former matinée idol. It's just that
overall in Their Finest, not enough happens to make you really love, or
identify with, the characters or the storyline. Quite a few times, the
horribly random nature of the bombing of London is depicted, but it's
as if someone had read the script and gone, OK, we need something
dramatic to happen about now, how about we kill off character X? It
seems pretty bloodless and meaningless. The film purports to be a
comedy, but there isn't much even gentle humour. Maybe this is the
wrong film to watch about the Blitz. Maybe one day someone will make an
incredibly moving and engrossing film with some of the elements
depicted here. For example, how your best friend could be killed in an
instant while crossing the road. Meanwhile, I think in order to enjoy
Their Finest, you would have to be a very undemanding viewer.
