
A friend of mine warned me to go in with zero expectations. So I did. I
read a few reviews around the internet about the movie, going on about
how the audience weren't roaring with laughter. 

Well that simply wasn't what I just been through. There was a scene or
two where the audience even started applauding! 

Frankly speaking, this movie is a vast improvement over the first one,
with heightened unpredictability and more genuine gags. 

I think what you'll have to remember, if you're gonna catch it, is that
Atkinson is best known for his slapstick (+silent) comedy, and not
hilarious lines like Adam Sandler. 

If you're expecting a deep plot and clever dialogue, you won't find it
in this movie - though I must say that the move has gotten the balance
of plot, dialogue, and comedy, quite right.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny English is back! The film kicks off swiftly indeed, with English
being retrained for service. If there is one impressive thing, the
pacing is spot on. Whilst the first film lent more towards witty
dialog, Reborn relies more on visual gags. Standout sequences include
English on a gadget powered wheelchair racing down the streets of
London, along with the majority of action scenes. The chair gag in Mi7
is also most welcome. The music composer must be commended for a
rousing score, frequently referencing the Johnny English Theme,
particularly during the splendid opening titles sequence. The cast is
solid, particularly Rosamund Pike. Whilst Ben Miller does not appear
unfortunately, Daniel Kaluuya does an average job of replacing the
sidekick role as Agent Tucker. The other performances are pretty spot
on.

Overall Oliver Parker and Rowan Atkinson have made a fun, entertaining
film, barely missing the heights of the first adventure. Stay for the
after credits scene!
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny English 2 is fantastic. I watched it before it came out and I
have to say, once it comes out everyone MUST go see it. It is not a
total slapstick, childishly funny comedy. Quite the contrary; Johnny
English Reborn is an amazing movie that entertains all ages. My mother
was in hysterics at some points in the movie. I highly recommend this
to everyone and anyone. The plot is not the simplest but not the
hardest to follow either. There are many funny moments, many of which
are in the trailer. The action is very...active. There is no gore or
excessive blood. Most of the deaths are portrayed humorously and have
funny sides. My positive review comes with one warning. Be EXTREMELY
careful, no matter who you are with, where you are watching it, or when
you are watching it, as this movie may cause excessive laughter. :)
Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
For those sick of the recent high school/teen comedies and rom-coms
we're bashed with these days, this film will be a breath of fresh air
for you. Sure, the film has some rehashed comedic scenes, but a lot of
the humour is pure laugh-out-loud type layered on very good bits of
suspense and chase scenes. I really loved the well-choreographed chase
scenes and the climactic battle, which was something the first film
lacked.

The first film made me laugh so much back then and I've watched it a
lot of times since 2003. Watching it now as I'm older, I thought its
plot was too formulaic and the characters, beside Malkovich, were weak
and bland. This film, however, had a great damn cast and a well written
overall story. I liked how it had more darker elements than the first
one - the violence, the suspense and the chase scenes were thorough,
whereas in the first film everything seemed light and slapstick-ish,
even the villains. The villains in this were top-notch and serious.

This film began a little unfunny and was been-there-done-that with its
humour, but around 15 minutes later good humour started to kick in. The
funny scenes in this film were pretty infrequent and laugh out loud
type, while the funny scenes in the first film were more chuckle type
and frequent. But I still prefer the humour in this one. Rowan Atkinson
was still excellent with his humour, and I doubted that because I
thought he lost his magic because of his awful Bean 2 film.

The film had scenes were I laughed so much. I really loved those
classic Rowan Atkinson situations and his witty lines. The fight scenes
were awesome and I loved how they made them humorous at the same time.
The climactic scene in the mountains was just epic. What I loved about
this film is that it mixed suspense and comedy at the same time, and
that was awesomely done.

The music composer must be commended for a rousing score, frequently
referencing the Johnny English Theme, particularly during the splendid
opening titles sequence. The cast is solid, particularly Rosamund Pike.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I just saw Johnny English Reborn. It was excellent as a comedy.
It had lots of funny moments.

I'll be clear: it's not the best movie I've ever seen, but, as I
already said, it was excellent as a comedy. It is even better than the
first Johnny English film, however, I'm a bit disappointed that they
didn't include Bough from the first film.

Rowan Atkinson's performance was, of course, brilliant. All the other
actors also acted great, and I have nothing against this funny, great
comedy.

I highly recommend this movie because it is obviously worth seeing!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is damn funny. I didn't watch the first show, but I can
assure you, when I went to watch it yesterday at 21.15, all shows from
20.45, 21.00, 21.15, 21.30, 21.45 were full. Also, during the parts
where Mr Bean just talked something funny, the whole theatre was
laughing. I almost threw my popcorn up into the air during the chair
shrinking part, and my dad choked on his drink. The whole movie is
funny and not in a lowbrow way like most movies you see nowadays with
disgusting sex or poop jokes. It has the British humour. And the
opening scenes imitate the parkour one in James Bond but it is much
more realistic. I think, if you don't set your expectations too high,
you will find it above your expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Britain's beloved spy is back in Oliver Parker's new spy adventure
'Johnny English Reborn'. Needless to say, the film spoofs the spy
action thriller genre (the first titles that pop in mind are those
James Bond flicks) and does an excellent job in doing so. And of
course, Atkinson is playing the lead so one can expect at least some
laugh out loud moments (and there are many of them). The script is
funny and the amusing action sequences are remarkably shot. The title
role was obviously written for Rowan Atkinson and he performs all guns
blazing, tickling you to the bone. Very few can pull off slapstick as
well as he does. He is accompanied by two smoking hot beauties, Gillian
Anderson (who does a very impressive fake British accent as she
stresses and stretches each word) and Rosamund Pike (as a professional
behavioural therapist who inadvertently happens to know hypnotherapy).
Dominic West does a good evil villain.

With a solid balance of story, dialogue, action and humour, 'Johnny
English Reborn' is a terrific sequel. One doesn't have to have watched
the first film to fully enjoy this one. I was enjoying it so much that
I found myself wanting more when it finished.
<|_=00=_|>
My boys and I like the first film. Have the DVD; watch it regularly. It
is laugh out loud funny even on the second, third, etc time of
watching.

This second film could have built on that legacy. However, even from
the previews it all seemed laboured; uninspired, and it was. Should
have gone with my first instincts.

Even with Rosamund Pike and Gillian Anderson this film was predictable,
tired, unfunny. So much less than it should of been.

The gag about the chair going up and down. Is that the best the writer
could do. The wheelchair with fast, v fast and f fast. Possibly the
worst chase scene I've ever seen. The kung-fu master scenes. Is there
nothing in this film that is original.

Wish I could like it more but now beginning to think 4/10 was
over-generous.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny English Reborn is a comedy spy-thriller with Rowan Atkinson as
inept secret agent versus a nasty organization called Vortex . It
maintains the slapstick franchise including a good cast as Gillian
Amstrong , Rosamund Pike , Dominic West and professionally directed by
Oliver Parker . In his latest adventure, the most unlikely intelligence
officer in Her Majesty's Secret Service is recruited by MI7 and must
stop a group of international assassins before they eliminate a world
leader and cause global chaos. Now that the world needs him once again,
Johnny English goes into the action . In the years since MI-7's top spy
vanished off the grid, he has been honing his unique skills in a remote
region of Asia. But when his agency superiors learn of an attempt
against the Chinese premier's life, they must hunt down the highly
unorthodox agent. Now that the world needs him once again, maladroit
klutz Johnny English is back in action. With one shot at redemption, he
must employ the latest in hi-tech gadgets to unravel a web of
conspiracy that runs throughout the KGB, CIA and even MI-7. With mere
days until a heads of state conference, one man must use every trick in
his playbook to protect us all. For Johnny English who stumbles through
cases like a bull in a factory , disaster may be an option, but failure
never is and he invariably and usually by accident manages to solves
them . 

Fun comedy spy-thriller in which Rowan Atkinson returns to the role of
the accidental secret agent who doesn't know fear or danger . Amusing
moments along with embarrassing in this first entry about ignorant
secret agent Johnny English with a likable Rowan Atkinson , as he's a
complete spectacle . This second installment is a passable and
acceptable comedy because of the formula is well known with 'The Pink
Panther' series and a shameless James Bond-spoof , a fun caricature of
the world's most known spy . Bemusing screenplay by Hamish McColl based
on the characters created by Neal Purvis and Robert Wade , being
inspired by a series of credit card television . It stars clumsy Rowan
Atkinson as one man show accompanied by a sympathetic and fresh agent
well played by Daniel Kaluuya .¨ Johnny English¨ release was the first
part of series as the inept and bungler secret agent from MI-7 , this
following is a good sequel, intermittently hilarious , that results to
be as good as the first . The movie gets entertaining and comical
moments here and there. This slapstick picture contains amusing , funny
scenes , fresh and diverting moments but also flaws and gaps . Rowan
Atkinson steals the show parodying the ordinary international secret
agent , James Bond-alike , including his ordinary faces , grimaces and
gestures . Appears as secondaries some prestigious British/American
actors as Dominic West , Gillian Armstrong , Richard Schiff , Isla
Blair and Tim McInnerny as Patch Quartermain . The actors seem to enjoy
themselves immensely giving funny interpretations . Lively and
atmospheric Original Music by Ilan Eshkeri . Colorful and glimmer
cinematography by Danny Cohen . The film was well directed by Oliver
Parker (Portrait of Dorian Gray , Otelo, An ideal husband , Fade to
black , The importance of being Ernest) . Several chuckles and gags ,
the result of which is one acceptable second entry . Sit back and enjoy
the show of Johnny doing what he does best a funny caricature .The
flick will appeal to Rowan Atkinson fans who plays stunningly the
highly unorthodox agent.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies i saw this year. I cannot believe why i let my
friends persuade me to spend 9 Euros (for the cinema ticket) to watch
it. The humorous scenes are so stretched out and so intentional that
are not funny any more, all the actors are over-acting in a way that
it's like trying to tell you "now...i'm going to do something funny
now, be ready to laugh" and the sounds & music were so loud that i
couldn't at least take a nap until it's over.

No reason to watch it, unless you need a reason to spend 1,5 hour
standing in front of your TV set and eat a lot of popcorn, candies,
marshmallows etc.
