
I can't believe I almost didn't see this movie based on the lower
rating and negative reviews. What a shame that would have been! There
are always plenty of long reviews, so I won't bore you with mine.

This movie was absolutely wonderful. It has some drama, suspenseful
music and scenes from start to finish, and even a bit of romance (but
not nearly enough to make this a romantic or "chick" movie).

Each of the chosen actors were perfect for their part and they
portrayed assigned characters beautifully. They were very likable and
believable.

I'm not going to compare this movie with any other, but if you're like
me and love movies such as The Sixth Sense, Shutter Island, Inception,
Dream House, etc... I promise you will love this movie as well. You
also, like me, may decide to immediately watch it the 2nd time to see
if there are any clues you missed preparing you for the last 15 minutes
of movie.

Out of over 700 movies in my collection, only 32 have a 10 star rating.
This movie comes VERY close to that category. Definitely a must see!
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at an advance preview and it is fantastic. If you like
your a fan of Spanish horror like The Orphanage of Hierro then you will
love this. 

Delibrately hiding key facts throughout the film to keep you guessing
so ignore the reviews here trying to compare this to Paranormal
Activity 3. This is a film where you have to use your brain, you have
to concentrate and let the film take you on a journey and if you do
then you will be justly rewarded with a scary ghost story.

It builds and builds to an excellent ending , you just need a little
bit of patience and a little bit of brain power to get you there.
<|_=00=_|>
I love old-fashioned ghost stories, both in literature and in moving
picture. It's a harder genre than people give credit to, especially
because it's age. Since it has been done to death, almost every
possibility and approach seems to have been covered. However, there are
movies that have taken the this tired formula and made splendid films -
The Orphanage is a good example of a ghost story done right. The
Awakening started off right. The acting was good, the mood was
efficiently set and the cinematography gorgeous to look at. I was many
times at absolute awe at the beautiful images and camera shots that the
movie boosted. However, the central thing in a movie is it's plot, and
that's where things get shaky. The plot wasn't that great to begin with
and as it progressed became less interesting, managing nonetheless to
sustain my interest throughout until the end, which was by far the
film's greatest weakness. The ending "twist" came too late and was done
with too much haste, which hurt it's already shaky believability. I
think the ending despite being far-fetched could still work if done
more competently and with more preparation. It's still an enjoyable
movie, but the beautiful and eerie imagery would be much better served
by a better plot. All in all, a solid 5 for the film, 10 for the
cinematography. This cinematographer deserves to be well known,
assuming he isn't already.
<|_=00=_|>
I found "The Awakening" to be a breath of fresh air for the
Horror/Suspense genre. With so many shaky cam, found footage, reality
show type horror/suspense movies hitting the box offices and living
rooms around the world with poor character development, over the top
torture and gore, plots so thin they are the only transparent ghosts in
the picture. "The Awakening" is bound to be an instant classic! It's
done with just the right amount of restraint, it has a rather
Hitchcockian tone to it.What you don't see is far more suspenseful and
adds to it.Sometimes less really is more. There is a fine line to walk
especially with a ghost story, to achieve that sense of spine tingling,
skin crawling feeling and that element can only be teased from the
psyche with mystery, not in your face guts or a head being lopped off -
that is shock value and gross out, which is perfectly fine for a
slasher pic or a grind house movie, but not a good ghost story. 

"The Awakening" is set in 1921 England, our Protagonist Florence
Cathcart a free thinking, strong willed ghost buster, author and hoax
crusher opens this gem of a movie by diving right into the fray.
Mediums, psychics and séances' were all the rage during that time
period, which began with the religion of spiritualism. Spiritualism
developed and reached its peak growth in the 1840's to the 1920's. With
many patrons from the Aristocratic and famous class, like Abraham
Lincoln joining his wife for a séance after the death of their young
son. After WWI many bereaved souls were searching for a connection to
loved ones lost either from deadly illness or the horrors of war and
were further victimized by unscrupulous charlatans seeking only coin
and selling false hope. Florence's main objective is to put a stop to
this and shed light and truth on the subject of death, the afterlife
and ghosts. But after being invited to a supposedly haunted old grand
estate that was converted into a boy's boarding school, with a recent
death of a student and a rumor of an old murder and sightings of a
ghost, Florence finds much more than school boy pranks and hoaxes - she
finds something good, something frightening and something truly
enlightening. 

The character development in "The Awakening" is done perfectly with
solid performances from the entire cast. The cinematography is
excellent as is the entire production tip to tail. From sets and
wardrobe to the musical score. The research done for the story and time
period is what really brings this ghost story to life. It's the small
details and creepy little surprises that all add to the reality of the
time this story is told and the ensuing mystery. I must also comment on
the pacing - this movie wasted no time, it's no action packed, a scare
a minute kind of movie, it's far more subtle, but it's never slow or
boring and nothing is wasted. 

As a true horror/suspense connoisseur (I have a degree in film
production and I was a make-up artist/Stylist for print, film and T.V.
for 12 years.) I'd like to comment on some of the cynical and negative
reviews. One cannot simply lump all horror and suspense films together.
There are many subsets of the genre (Slasher, Grind House, Mystery,
Supernatural, Creature, Occult, Gothic..etc.)and each has it's own
flavor so to speak. You cannot compare a movie like "A nightmare on Elm
street" to "The Changeling". Though they are both considered to be
horror, one is supernatural slasher and the other is classic ghost
story. Even when comparing movies in the same subset like "The house on
haunted hill" with "The Haunting" both of which have remakes, have huge
differences, usually found in the details and presentation and should
be considered unique in their own right. While it may be true that
there is nothing new under the sun and we've all seen the same plots
and themes over and over again - I have found there is always something
new to add to the age old themes.

This movie is in my top 10 of great ghost stories - 8 out of 10 stars
for "The Awakening".
<|_=00=_|>
Ghost debunking author, spiritual hoax nemesis and early benefactor of
the suffragette movement, Florence, is invited to a boys boarding
school where the children are terrorised by a phantom child and the
teachers by the aftermath of WW1. She is to debunk the ghost story and
return the school to business as usual.

A rational explanation quickly reveals itself, through the simple
application of Holmesian deduction, a chemistry, set and some bells on
strings. However, haunted by her personal sense of guilt and loss,
Florence finds the rational solution unsatisfactory and searches
instead for an antidote to her own suffering.

Haunting cinematography, a strong cast and a story line which supports
both suspense and character depth, enable this film to stand alongside
"the orphanage" and "the Others" rather than being shadowed by them.

Winner of the Jury Prize at the Gerardmer Film Festival in France.
<|_=00=_|>
I think a lot of people go to view this movie as a scary, jumpy horror
movie and fall into that trap. This movie is different, it's not
focused on the horror or the scare, it's focused on the story of
Florence Cathcart (played by the fantastic Rebecca Hall) and her drive
to prove that spirits are not real and are just 'naughty little
troublemakers'. However, she is not really trying to prove spirits
aren't real, she's actually looking for a sign that they are real, and
her dead, nearly-fiancée has passed over.

It is a really good movie, with a great story, great acting and a great
big twist at the end. For some people this movie drags on too much and
a lot of it doesn't matter in the end. For me, I loved every second of
the story, and the ending was just superb. The twist, when it is
revealed, really will make you go 'wait, what?' and I think the movie
is worth watching just for the twist.

As I said in the summary, do not go to see this if you're wanting a
scary horror movie, or a horror movie really, go watch it for the
fantastic storyline and superb acting by all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
The Awakening is the best old-fashioned ghost story made in modern time
since The Others. The film to me was so emotionally powerful, with an
engrossing tale of loss, loneliness, grief and fear. Don't go in with
expectations of being scared out of your mind even though there is some
well executed scares in this film. It's not the type of horror film
that really focuses on that element because it doesn't need to rely on
it so heavily like most horror movies do these days. The film's
strengths are its atmosphere, effective suspense, impeccable
performances, a story worth telling and a twist that through me for a
loop. The most under appreciated horror film of 2012.

Rebecca Hall plays Florence Cathcart, a Hoax exposer who is called to a
boarding house to investigate strange paranormal activity. Rebecca is
one of the most under used actresses of today! She was so mesmerizing
in this role and it's a shame that this didn't get a wide theatrical
release so people can see what a great actress she is; this was Oscar
worthy to me. The rest of the cast was great too, that include Dominic
West who plays Robert Mallory and Imelda Staunton who gives a
heartbreaking performance as the caretaker Maud Hill. These characters
were so moving and heartfelt and give the story an emotional punch.

Director and writer, Nick Murphy shows true talent in his first full
length feature film, and has strength as a writer. His ability to
capture emotion along with shocks and spooks is breathtaking to me; his
film grabs and doesn't let go. He is a director to look out for.
Stephen Volk who is no stranger to the horror genre, he also wrote
screenplays for Gothic, The Kiss, The Guardian, Superstition and
Octane. He shows true growth here as a solid writer for this genre.
They should collaborate again! Overall, The Awakening treads a lot on
familiar grounds, but there is true talent in front and behind the
camera that you can really appreciate the presentation. It could of
used a couple more scares but the ones thrown at us were effectively
spooky. The acting, characters, suspense and surprising twist though,
truly drive this film. Recommended! 7.9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
There are noticeable borrowings in terms of themes and atmosphere from
the 1961 classic THE INNOCENTS and more recent creepy hits such as as
THE SIXTH SENSE and THE OTHERS in this tale of Florence (Rebecca Hall),
a nervous investigator of the paranormal who sets out to disprove the
existence of a ghostly schoolboy at a remote boarding school in 1921.
Imelda Staunton plays the school matron in a style somewhere between
Hattie Jacques and Mrs Danvers; Dominic West is a war-traumatised
teacher who you somehow know will end up in a bonk scene with our
heroine.

There's an endearingly precocious schoolboy called Thomas (Isaac
Hempstead Wright) who hasn't gone home for the holidays; Thomas
provides a solid counterpoint to the ghost-boy whom we as well as
Florence get glimpses of. There's a haunted dolls-house that belongs in
the Cabinet of Doctor Caligari. The pace is well-timed. The
cinematography is outstanding.

The "exposition" at the end of the movie just about makes sense, but
the film teeters on the brink of becoming one of those dire
Psycho-shockers from Joan Crawford's twilight years, although Rebecca
Hall is (thankfully) a much better actress. THE AWKENING has a
satisfying number of make-you-jump moments - like a fun-fair ghost
train, scary when you're on it but a bit daft when you think about it
afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
The Awakening is pretty much what you would expect it to be. It's well
made with gorgeous cinematography and strong performances from its
cast. And the story if unsurprising is solidly made and well told. The
film is directed well and builds a nice amount of suspense throughout.
At times its confusing because of the sheer amount of convoluted ideals
being thrown around. The story concerns an educated young woman who
debunks ghost theories. She is approached by the headmaster of a school
to help out with a problem concerning the boys being frightened there.
After some convincing she arrives at the location and begins her
investigation. Many secrets are discovered and it builds to a somewhat
expected finale. For those of you who've seen the brilliant films The
Others, The Orphanage and The Devil's Backbone there's not much new
here. Still it's competently made and there is a nice slow burn of
suspense even culminating in some surprising scares and plot twists.
Overall it's a old fashioned classic spook fest with a bit of wit and
borrowed imagination from slightly better films. A bonus scene features
sexy Dominic West in a solid performance shedding his clothes which is
much appreciated but unnecessary like the other "bathtub" scene. And
there seems to be niche with that running through the proceedings it's
almost as if the people involved with making the film knew they had
something that wasn't the most original concept so they threw in
unnecessary things to kind of lead you astray it's a little
manipulative on their part but keeps you engaged as a viewer and you
don't feel too cheated at the films conclusion. Overall it's an
elegant, solid but expected ghost story.
