
I could not understand the low rate of this movie. I thought it was an
horror comedy movie but it is really a comedy.

I started laughing in the beginning and the best character is Albert,
the 8 years old boy that needs to be babysitted because his widow
mother has a party with her new 26 year old boyfriend.

The nerds are great, specially the jap/korean/oriental guy, I do not
know where he comes from.

The scene in the chicken fast food is hilarious.

Maybe everybody was expecting a more sexual content like in the OC but
the director delivered very well. It has lost some timing near the end
but the last scene with Albert made me give this movie an 8.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie on demand, and although there was some flaws, I
thought it was very good, for reference, I'm 17 years old.

The story covers Wren, played by Victoria Justice, trying to find her
trouble-making, prankster brother on Halloween.

There was a few cliché's, but I found them very easy to overlook,
especially when you consider the fact that the cliché's are just
sub-plots.

A lot of people are complaining that Nickeloden made a movie that isn't
family friendly, but this wasn't the first time Nickeloden did this
(Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging!!) so I didn't have a problem with
this film being produced by Nickeloden and I honestly don't see why
other people do.

I found this movie VERY funny and the main characters very compelling,
Jane Levy's character is probably one of my favourite supporting
character's in a comedy film at the moment.

Overall I enjoyed this movie for the overall atmosphere and give it a
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A teenage girl and her best friend want to attend the Halloween party
with the cool kids, but are stuck trick-or-treating with her little
brother. He becomes lost, and they spend the evening searching for him.
What ensues is supposed to be a funny adventure of oddball characters
getting themselves into amusing situations, but there just is not much
to laugh at here. In the end the girl is destined to come to some sort
of realization about what she really deems important, which is
predictable and does not add much to the movie. Victoria Justice, who
plays the girl, is pretty and likable enough, but that is not enough to
make this movie fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Never have I seen a Nickelodeon movie packed with more foul language,
drinking, illegal behavior, and sexual references than Fun Size. The
title, and the fact that it's a Nick movie, falsely implies that
parents should take their kids and go see it. False, as this movie is
supposed to target high school kids as its primary audience. It does
have jokes in it that kids would find funny, but in my mind, it's
pretty inappropriate to be viewed by younger kids.

That's not to say it isn't entertaining. There's lots of hit-and-miss
going on here, with about half of the jokes actually succeeding in
being funny. I did laugh out loud several times, which is the only
reason I'm rating this at a 5/10.

The plot itself is very weak, and we wonder why the police aren't
assisting Wren in finding her brother. Also, the girl who is supposed
to be her best friend doesn't seem the least bit interested in helping
her. And the two boys who like Wren, one a jock, and one a geek, look
almost identical. Then the subplot involving the little brother and a
dorky convenience store clerk who wants revenge on someone, which we
never really find out why, at least I didn't pick up on it. ("I'm not
luring a little kid into my car.") Wren's father just recently passed,
and her mother is dating a 26 year old moron who lives with his
parents. (Why, you ask? My guess is they needed a reason for the mother
to be leaving the house for the night.)

To summarize, there were some pretty funny moments, but as a movie,
it's below average at best. Definitely not Nickelodeon's best work, by
a long shot, but at least I don't feel like I wasted 90 minutes of my
life. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had such a strange tone to it. It resembles a teen comedy,
but from the marketing, it's easy to mistake it as a family film. It
somehow ends up being very chaste while pushing the limits of the PG-13
rating. The way the scenes play out have a very odd timing and
delivery; I think that on paper, it would read as a pretty clever
script, but often feels clunky and amateurish in execution. So the
result was that there were a lot of times I was ready to laugh, but as
a scene unfolded, ended up more confused by the unusual choices. The
Nickelodeon brand adds to that confusion, being that parents expect to
trust it for family entertainment. I think a strong director with a
good sense of who the audience was for this movie could have made a
little bit better film.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I'm not sure who this movie is marketed to. Kids?
Nickelodeon's logo scrolls at the beginning of the movie giving that
impression, yet there are crass jokes such as "tadpoles in your dad's
sac". There's also breast touching, sexual tension during said breast
touching, and a boy commenting on his mother's small boobs. This would
be fine and dandy, if the rest of the content wasn't so juvenile. I
personally don't mind crass jokes, but I felt as if they were out of
place. I just felt as though type of people who'd appreciate tadpoles
in ball sacs aren't going to enjoy watching a one-armed Spider-Man fool
adults out of candy while trick-or-treating. (You may think I'm being a
"prude" with this review, but I appreciate the humor and gratuitous
nudity in films such as "Harold & Kumar". It's juts that "Harold &
Kumar" knows what it is and what sort of audience is watching it.)

Alfred is supposed to be the charming yet devious little boy character,
but he was just so unlikeable. You're introduced to him on the toilet,
hearing the sound effects of poop plopping into the water. As if once
weren't enough, the last shot you see is, likewise, Alfred pooping on
the toilet - sound effects and all. It's not funny, it's pretty gross,
actually. Make sure you aren't snacking on popcorn while you watch.

A lot of the antics the teenagers get into while driving around feel
very forced, with little resolution. Peng shooting chicken at a bully
that he never encounters again? A kid totals his car, and his mothers
not only don't care, but give him keys to a second car? I don't know. I
just don't believe anything presented to me, and yet it doesn't have
that surreality of something like "Tide Land". Though, it wasn't a
complete waste of time. Thomas Middleditch & Thomas Mann play charming
characters, Victoria Justice and Jane Levy are likewise talented actors
who tried their best to bring lukewarm material to life. If you're
looking for a slightly inappropriate and awkward Halloween movie to
watch with the family, well, why not? Just don't expect too much out of
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This stars the latest Disney princess. It's Halloween and Wren
(Victoria Justice) just wants to party with her best friend (Jane
Levy). Instead her mother (Chelsea Handler) insists that she takes her
little brother out for trick or treat. While out, she loses her brother
and a mad cap search for him begins. 

Josh Schwartz who wrote and produced TV shows Gossip Girl, Chuck, and
The O.C. directs this teen movie. The movie does have potential. The
leads are likable. A night of crazy adventure is usually fun and
compelling. Keeping the kid silent was a mistake, and a better rewrite
was needed. The search is completely illogical. The kid lacks charisma
and not talking doesn't help any. Although Victoria Justice has the
charisma to lead this movie which is the most important aspect.
<|_=00=_|>
Fun Size- *1/2 (out of four): There are more laughs and more fun in an
episode of "Victorious" than in this farce of a film, which would have
fared better had it been released straight to DVD. It is crudely
written, the teenage qualms seem entirely artificial and clichéd. There
are some funny and even sweet moments in it, but the bad outweighs the
good here. It tries to pay homage to older (and better) teen flicks of
the '80s, but it falls far short, emerging as little more than a comedy
full of gags and stereotypical characters. It might be enjoyable for a
small minority of people, but I'm sure most will be quite bored by it.
Definitely one to skip.
<|_=00=_|>
Fun Size (2012): Dir: Josh Schwartz / Cast: Victoria Justice, Jane
Levy, Chelsea Handler, Thomas Mann, Jackson Niccol: Perhaps the title
references the young kid that runs about throughout in a Spider-Man
costume on Halloween night but it doesn't matter. The film isn't fun at
any size. It stars Victoria Justice who is disappointed because her
Halloween plans are sabotaged when her widowed mother decide to go to a
Halloween party with a much younger guy. Justice is joined by her
cynical friend, played by Jane Levy. They manage to lose the kid
brother who is hardly anything like a normal kid. He is like a junior
James Bond. Most kids would be scared but this one has the same life
line as the Home Alone kids. This kid gets into a car with a convenient
store clerk who has no social life. This film could have been Superbad
but instead it becomes an insult to the genre. We get to see a large
plastic chicken crash through a car in the appearance of anal humping.
We have another situation where the young kid is locked in a house
after a prank gone wrong. Director Josh Schwartz has one element to his
favor and that is the locations, otherwise this potential cult film
becomes a lazy exercise in crude humour that resorts to naked children
on the toilet. The characters are dull and the cast can merely recite
tired jokes, except for Jackson Niccol as the kid who just makes facial
reactions and shrugs a lot. Superbad had genuine character, meaning and
payoff that viewers may relate to. The only sizable fun thing about
this junk is the massive stampede to the theatre lobby to ask for a
refund. This film is more trick than treat. Score: 2 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Fun Size is the teen comedy produced by Nickeloden (the company who are
responsible for iCarly and Wizards of Waveraly Place). It is about a
girl who is forced to babysit her little brother when Halloween plans
go awry. However, he goes missing and she has to set out with her nerd
friends to find him...wow, that is a bland plot.

I have to admit, I didn't admire the idea of watching it judging from
the trailer, but my friends wanted to see it, so I decided to give it a
shot...what a dreadful mistake that was.

I must have slept through most of the movie, as I can't really remember
what happened, but I was jumping for joy in my seat when it finished.
This is a plain, dim-witted, over-the-top and rarely funny film, which
has an uninteresting storyline, stereotypical characters (the glamorous
girls who fall in love with hot boys and the nerds with big glasses and
rabbit teeth) and gross jokes (gross as in reference to sexual acts).

The film is clearly aimed at young teenage girls, (it certainly didn't
hit me)and is good for the drama queens.
