
The Paramount marketing department would have you think this film is a
wacky laugh fest. Which is a pity, since more people would enjoy the
film if their expectations were different. They go in thinking the film
is one way. When in reality, it's a whole other thing. The film is much
more touching, funny, and real. I cared about the two main characters,
and how they interacted. I was interested in what was at stake for
them. For me, the smaller moments of the film made it enjoyable. It was
delightful to see Streisand and Rogen working off each other like they
have known each other for years. Be sure to stay for the credits to see
just how well they played off each other.
<|_=00=_|>
Aside from her near-cameo appearances in two ensemble comedies, Barbra
Streisand has not starred in a movie in sixteen long years, not since
1996's "The Mirror Has Two Faces" which she also directed. Her output
as an actress has been meager since around 1980 when she started
directing films, building houses and returning to the concert stage
periodically, so it was with both great anticipation and some
trepidation that I saw this light- hearted 2012 comedy. What a relief
to find she hasn't missed a beat in her sharp comedy timing. I think
she's terrific as Joyce Brewster, the energetically overbearing mother
of Andy, an organic chemical engineer who long ago moved to California
and has recently invented a cleaning solution he is pitching to various
store chains headquartered across the country. He plans a weekend visit
with Joyce in New Jersey, but upon an intriguing discovery about her
past, he invites her on an eight-day cross-country road trip with him.

As directed by Anne Fletcher ("The Proposal") and written by Dan
Fogelman (the underrated "Crazy Stupid Love") who based his script on
his own late mother, the film is about how their two mismatched
personalities unsurprisingly clash at every stop as their relationship
twists and turns with each new humiliation for Andy and each new
revelation for the both of them, a few of them quite poignant. The film
is at its comedic best when she and co-star Seth Rogen as Andy volley
back and forth with her well-meaning thoughts and antics at odds with
his spiky annoyance at anything she says or does. Rogen plays against
type as the coiled-up Andy since his stoner-dude personality has been
the basis of much of his previous comedy. Here he needs to show some
dramatic gravity (as he did earlier this year in "Take This Waltz") and
again does surprisingly well when necessary. There is a confrontation
scene between the two characters that I wish could have gone on a bit
longer and deeper than it did, but he manages to bring a real edge to
the film in ways I didn't quite expect from him.

Of course there are predictable comedy pieces that also work like a
steak-eating contest in Texas where Joyce has to down a fifty-ounce
piece of beef in an hour to avoid a $100 tab. There's also quite a
supporting cast here, but like Streisand movies of yore, the familiar
actors contribute moments that amount to nearly bit parts. Kathy Najimy
and Miriam Margolyes are among Joyce's Weight Watchers friends in a
quick dinner scene early in the story, while Adam Scott and Ari Graynor
show up at the very end of the road trip in San Francisco. In between
are appearances by Brett Cullen as a cowboy who becomes smitten with
Joyce during the eating contest and Nora Dunn as an officious HSN TV
hostess. But that's fine since Rogen really lets Streisand dominate the
movie all the way from pushing off potential suitors at a mature
singles mixer to getting into the wrong car at a mini-mart pit-stop to
getting drunk in a motel bar to sharing her innocently ignorant
perceptions of stereotypes. This is only her 19th film since her
extraordinary debut in "Funny Girl" 44 years ago, reason enough to
enjoy the warm, accomplished performance she gives here.
<|_=00=_|>
Mama don't let your boys grow up to be cowboys or better yet organic
chemist. In this fun tale you see Andy Brewster (Seth Rogen) is on a
mission to sell his discovered organic cleaning product and find a
distributor. In a caring move he invites his mother Joyce Brewster
(Barbra Streisand) to come along for the eight day cross country trip.
Most movies feature two guys or girls in a crazy road trip but never a
mother and son. Freud was right, we all have mother issues and Andy
finally deals with his overbearing mother as he sets out to discover
his own identity. This movie is fun, touching, and is above the bond
between mother and son. In the preview I saw I took my own mother and
she enjoyed it. In a special live simulcast with Barbra Streisand and
Seth Rogen they took questions about the Road Trip. According to
Streisand, she was pursued by director Ann Fletcher for the role. It
was not until she read the script out loud with her own son that she
fell in love with the role. Streisand did a phenomenal job and you get
the feeling that the role is way below her pay grade. They did
accommodate all her request. All the scenes were shot within forty five
minutes of her house in Malibu, California and she did not even have to
drive. According to the pop diva, she has not driven for over a decade.
She was also asked if she would ever like to take a road trip with
someone and she said Marlon Brando. She did take a day trip with him
once to check out the desert wild flowers once and had fun. When asked
if Babs had any resemblance with his real life mother, Rogen said that
they are both strong Jewish women but that his mother resembled more a
past character that Streisand played in Meet the Fockers. His mother is
a Jewish hippie type of woman. The Guilt Trip opens December 19,
perfect for the holiday season and a fun tale of love, joy, and
celebrating life. In the end it will make you appreciate your mother
and the characters discovered that they were more alike than different.
<|_=00=_|>
At the beginning of the movie I would agree with some of the sentiments
of the reviewers (see the scathing reviews on Rotten Tomatoes), however
I stuck with it and was rewarded. 

The second half really picks up and everything comes to frankly a
touching and satisfying conclusion with great performances. 

Which just confirms that many reviewers must have skipped out after
only watching about 30 minutes of the movie and reviewed it based on
the first weakest segment.

As the movie progresses the performances, the chemistry between Rogan
and Streisand, the story and the comedy takes off and it becomes the
movie you hoped it would be. It really has a heart, you just need to be
patient for it to come along. Hang in there ;-)

Filmmakers take note - you HAVE to grab your audience in the first
20-30 minutes, especially if some of them are jaded reviewers watching
screener DVDs that they might just skip if they get the least bit bored
and publish a scathing review as punishment.
<|_=00=_|>
Nice movie with strong, likable actors. I'd call it a holistic movie,
it's so complete. The only thing missing from the movie is the point.
Why on earth would I want to see another middle-aged man take his dear
mom on a road trip? Marveling at why I don't take my mum on a lengthy
cross-country trip in an uncomfortably small car hasn't really kept me
awake at night. I'm not surprised that it might get awkward. Coz it's
her motherly duty to make me feel awkward. My job is to stay the feck
clear of her. That's called son-mom-dynamics. Unlike Andy, I did study
on the other end of the country to get as far away as possible from my
parentals. The quality of the institution had nothing whatsoever to do
with it. If I'd had the choice to either study brain surgery in my
mum's basement or to attend the Compton Council College for assistant
janitors on the other coast, my job would have been as clear as a
spring day in the Mohave. That's maybe not very nice, but it sure is
healthy.

Also, the movie is predictable. When the Southron gentleman introduces
himself to Joyce, we KNOW she won't get to meet her puppy love object
in Frisco. And I was waiting all through the movie for Andy to finally
drink his cleanser, knowing that this would be presented in the movie
as a brilliant selling point, which it isn't.
<|_=00=_|>
How is it possible that when you put together an esteemed actress with
the ambassador of a new generation comedy that you get a second rate
movie? For starters this film started off as a wannabe comedy. It was
as if the cast were trying their hardest to make us laugh but it just
did not work. The obsessive neurotic mother with the geeky kind of son
was somewhat off for laughs.

Then the conversation developed, the story unfolded but despite the
charm and warmth it conveyed as well as being engaging, it never really
went beyond making the audience smile, so the supposed comedy never
happened which is a shame as the ingredients were there.
<|_=00=_|>
Barbra Streisand and Seth Rogen are a great comedy team. In fact, the
best part of Guilt Trip is when the credits are rolling at the end, and
there are several scenes that the two of them apparently improvised
during the filming. If the whole movie had been as entertaining as
those outtakes, I would have given it a "10." 

Unfortunately, the makers of Guilt Trip appear to believe that a movie
requires a plot, and sadly, this one was clunky. For a comedy film to
work, you either have to completely put reality aside (Blazing Saddles
or Rocky Horror Picture Show), or somehow believe an unbelievable story
(Airplane or the Blues Brothers). This film didn't fall into either
category. The plot just wasn't strong enough to support the premise
that any son would be crazy enough to take his mother on a long
business trip with him, and there was no reason why he kept bringing
her to all his business appointments. And his mother's nutty revealing
of her deepest family secret, and her insane baby-naming system, were
clearly tossed in just to provide somewhere for this film to go.

Don't get me wrong. I'd really like Streisand and Rogen to do another
road trip together. But next time, let's just say that space aliens
abducted them and forced them to travel together. And let both of the
stars ad lib their way through the adventure. I'd pay to see that one.
<|_=00=_|>
When the previews before the main feature show about as much promise as
a toddler would in a university seminar, your hopes for what you paid
for on your trip to the cinema certainly diminish. The Guilt Trip is a
high-concept film that revolves around a mother named Joyce (Barbra
Streisand) and her son Andy (Seth Rogen) as they embark on a (you
guessed it!) road trip across the US for Andy's career, and throw some
romance in there too for no apparent reason.

It's never a good sign if you leave a supposed 'comedy' film being able
to count the number of times you laughed with just one hand (I tallied
three). The first hour or so of The Guilt Trip just continues to play
off of the same non developing character traits and one archetypal
joke. Joyce is the stereotypical, overly-attached mother whose
incessant nagging and unwanted presence in her son's life is a fact
oblivious to her. The film continues to regurgitate this one aspect of
their relationship, and in no way deals with it with any style or
substance.

It's as if screenwriter Dan Fogelman conjured up a single sentence for
the bond between the two protagonists, then when he could write no
more, just decided to rearrange the words of this sentence, hoping
nobody would ever notice. The writer's intentions were clearly to be
annoying but funny, but instead it is annoyingly unfunny just the way
that this mother and son interact. It honestly felt as if my brain
cells were being violated by hearing the same joke over and over again.

To be more optimistic, The Guilt Trip certainly leaves its worst
qualities in the first half of the film. Midway through their trip,
they refuel and begin to gain some momentum that makes the 95 minute
journey considerably more tolerable, and my desire to punch the
unlikable characters did in fact decline. The humour begins to become
less one- dimensional but still can only manage to extract a minute
amount of audience laughter. Nonetheless, this is most definitely what
the picture needed following its motionless first half; the successor
provides more instances of cheap amusement that keep you engaged enough
to appreciate the minor modest revitalisation in cinematic quality. One
way to have fun throughout The Guilt Trip is to try and guess the punch
line of every joke during the time that the set up is being told. This
is probably the only feeling of accomplishment one could obtain from
their time experiencing the film. 

The Guilt Trip is not a dreadful film by any means, but nor is it a
good one. This is easily the least entertaining and most forgettable
Seth Rogen film that his catalogue of comedies has to offer. It's
predictable, it's a comedy without humour and the only thing that could
make some of jokes more awkward (not in a good sense) would be if
Barbra Streisand's character was sitting beside you, behaving in her
annoying role. The only reason I would have for recommending you devote
your time and money to this 'comedy' would be if you desire to occupy
some time and nothing else appeals to you. Even then, I would suggest
waiting until a Wednesday to use your Orange code and throw in your
student card for extra discount, as full admission price would almost
unquestionably make you feel a sense of guilt for making the trip after
you leave the cinema screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I looked forward to this film, thinking it would be a hilarious
showcase of not only Streisand's talents but an expose of the difficult
relationships between mothers and grown sons. I got neither. It was
boring just a few minutes into it. I felt Mr. Rogen's acting was
plausible and done well. However, hers was lackluster and not up to her
usual standards. There were very few laughs at all. The difficulties of
the relationship were not highlighted very much either. Some of the
dialog was nonsensical to say the least. I also thought it ridiculous
to have her considering 50 year-olds for dating and trying to convince
us she was under 60; usually it's the other way around. All in all I
was very disappointed in this movie and had to concur with another
woman leaving the theater at the same time when she said "what a waste
of time!"
<|_=00=_|>
Is it funny? Yes, if you can laugh at yourself.

Critics are flat wrong to give this film a bad review. The touching
story tells about the adult relationship - at least its improvement -
between a mother and son. Actually a lot of it reminded me of my
daughter and me. "No, Mom, I do not want to join you in pilates."

The mother's out-of-control phone call frequency and tendency to
unrealistically reassure her son of success are measured out between
restrained and very real grinding gears as they try to share time
together. My least favorite bit was the $100 meal, but it set up nicely
her last phone call. Even as they said goodbye at the airport, they
mistimed their interactions spot on. They separated with an improved
mother-son bond. Delightful.

Not a slapstick comedy. I did find specific scenes side-hugging
hilarious, mostly because I could see myself and my children splashed
incongruently across the scene. Where you laugh will be as individual
as you are as a viewer.
