
This movie is one of the absolute worst Disney movies that I have seen
in recent days like Wreck It Ralph (2012), Frozen (2013), Snow White
and the Hunstman (2012), all of which are not as good as Disney
classics like The Little Mermaid (1989), Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs (1937), The Incredibles (2004), the toy story trilogy, Monsters
Inc. (2001), Finding Nemo (2003), Pirates of the Caribbean series,
Cinderella (1950), Fantasia (1940), Pinocchio (1940), or even Sleeping
Beauty (1959), and also this movie is one of the worst movies of the
year. The movie tells the story of a boy named Alexander (played by Ed
Oxenbould) who is about to go to school and before he does he has a
piece of bubble gum stuck in his hair and this clumsy event ends up
with more stupid events that we as viewers are supposed to call funny
for example everyone is scrambling to get ready and take care of the
baby, his mom (played by Jennifer Garner opens the bathroom door in
which her son Anthony (played by Dylan Minnette) naked and lots of
other hell breaks loose. Director Miguel Arteta uses the same
directorial technique as Dennjis Dugan when he directs one of those
goofy Adam Sandler, but instead this one is with Steve Carell as the
bumbling father during the course of the film. Even though the movie
was very baldy written it had good moral standards because the only
thing that this movie tries so hard to tell us is that people don't
have to have good days all of the time and that sometimes you got to
have the unfortunate bad days. The acting in this movie is very cheesy
throughout with a decent cast humiliating themselves in a so called
"good movie for children", (in which I don't think that this movie is
goo d for anyone at any age, and why this movie had to be made I don't
know. Anyway back to the reason why I think that the acting is terrible
because you got Steve Carell and Jennifer Garner acting as very stupid
parents Dylan Minnette and Kerris Dorsey acting as very dumb older
siblings, Bella Thorne as Anthony's girlfriend Celia who is truly a
spoiled princess, and we got a young Ed Oxenbould who tries so hard to
give a good performance but he really gives the only good performance
in the entire movie. What a waste of money.
<|_=00=_|>
The reason I give this a 5 out of 10 is that this movie is a good one
for the kids. A movie with a simple lesson to accept the bad days and
enjoy every good one. To be more positive. 

About the movie out of my point of view? Well, not that awesome, but
you can't expect a lot of this kind of movies. Steve Carell didn't
perform at his best, that is obvious, but that wasn't even necessary. 

After all, this whole movie was from the point of view of Alexander. Of
course they did choose to make it a little childish. I believe the
acting was also based on the viewer to be around 5 - 10 years old. Some
simple jokes, not a lot of jokes where to use the brain, but more of
the eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
The poster, the trailer and the genre will leave many assuming the
worst. Another movie with over-the-top sight gags that would never
happen in reality and are unable to entertain adult viewers. 

But this Alexander is not terrible. Instead it takes the high road in
the family movie category by not depicting a dysfunctional family but
instead showing us how parents and kids can pull together and overcome
difficult circumstances. I was impressed that all the "terrible" things
that happen could pretty much actually occur. And with four kids
myself, let me assure you that some days really do play out similar to
the one shown here. Of course, they aren't quite this crazy, but they
are realistic enough family-inclined that will be able to relate to the
antics on screen, and that's what makes the humor in this movie work so
well.

I was also pleased to see two parents who are not "stupid". Both the
father and mother are intelligent and hard working and are doing their
best to make a bad day better for their kids. Call it sentimental if
you wish, but for those of us with family experiences I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised at how entertaining and touching this film is.
Within the scope of similar movies, this one is an 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
DISCLAIMER: Review may contain Spoilers

2ND DISCLAIMER: However, since this film is cinematic trash, such a
spoiler seems to give the illusion that people want to see this. I
assure you, you do not. Oh yeah, spoiler alert! This movie is cinematic
trash. 

When I first saw the trailer to this film, I rolled my eyes and
shrugged it off. I knew from the get-go I wasn't gonna enjoy this film,
probably because I'm not the biggest fan of Family Pictures. Finally, I
was dragged into this film with my father(I'm a teenager, 17 as of the
writing of my review) and he seemed open minded enough to watch such a
film. I had decided to go in, since we were about to go to Honeywell
and we wished to kill time.

I bring this up because I hopefully wished this film would be just a
waste of time, nothing taken and nothing given. But it surely took
something of mine, and I'm not just talking about 9 Dollars and a
couple of my brain cells.

How bad is it? Well, the movie begins with Kerris Dorsey throwing up in
a bush and ending with male strippers dressed like Outback hunters. And
this is by Disney? Odd, since I never remembered Disney trying this
hard to make an Adam Sandler movie! At least Sandler goes in guns
blazing with his blights on cinema, and one can admit that with each
future attempt, he slowly is grasping the reigns. But here, in
Alexander, almost every bit of Sandler's movies feel like Oscars when
compared to Disney's attempt to clone trash into treasure.

Even Academy Award winning, Oscar-Nominated actor Steve Carell seems
oddly drained of his usual charisma and comedic presence here. In fact,
I believe his role in Hope Springs brought in more laughs. Even sadder,
newcomer actor Edward Oxenbould tries his hardest to keep this train
wreck on track, even giving a surprisingly good effort as one of the
only characters that manage to have a lot going for him. Giving a solid
performance with a talent all his own, which is something that's hard
to come by in young actors. It's too bad he had to sabotage his
filmography early by leading the charge of a film that's only funny
joke comes in the absurdity of a Dick Van Dyke book reading.

The premise of Alexander and the Needlessly Long Title is that
Alexander(Oxenbould) is the second youngest of his perfect family, yet
he always seems to get the bulk of the bad days. The dad(Carell) is
signing up for a Video-Games development team, the mother is selling a
soon to be best-seller book for tykes, the older brother and sister
both have gained respected positions of their school's extra-curricular
activities, and even the baby seems to be near perfect as for babies
concerns(unlike any of my nieces and nephew, to tell you the truth).
All while poor Alexander seems to have the worst lot the days.(despite
the worst thing happening being the burning of his crush's notebook.)

One night before his birthday(which is weird, since wishes usually come
AT your birthday, like in Liar Liar), Little Alex makes a wish that
invokes the wrath of God upon his Brady Bunch family and those who have
wronged him before-hand. The family all over sleeps, the sister ends up
sick, the car is out of juice, and soon the family endures one hell of
a bad day. Even the baby's favorite Binky is destroyed in the garbage
disposal. Oh the humanity!

The film starts to nosedive from this point, where most of the jokes
are based on either bodily functions, references to other Disney films
like Wreck-it Ralph, and quite possibly the most times I've heard the
word for "Male Reproductive Organ" in such a family film. Seriously,
they say it like 9 times, and it just feels awkward as hell. Some
characters are bland, ranging from the surprisingly only funny,
aforementioned Dick Van Dyke and the bland, spoiled rich girl
Cella(Bella Thorne), both of which are only there to pull the story in
motion, despite most of the funnier moments happening with them.

Near the end, Carell tries to right the wrong by ordering "Outback
Cowboys" for Alexander's Australian-themed birthday party(there was a
part of the original book where he wished to move to Australia, and
Oxenfourd himself is from there as well, because here, Alexander is
OBSESSED with Australia.). I secretly knew which direction this movie
would take, and I begged the film not to go there. But, as with the
worst of the worst, it went to said direction, giving us the male
strippers I mentioned earlier. This, now, was the only film I walked
out of before the end credits

I hated this film. And I can't believe how these critics not managed to
put this in the same lines as North, Richie Rich, and Milk Money.
Probably because being mentioned with those travesties would give
Alexander some kind of appeal. Trust me, it is not. It's really not.

All in all, Alexander and the Needlessly Long Title ends up being one
of the worst films, I've personally had the displeasure to see in 2014.
Stay away from this awful film if you can. Don't see this even if you
think you'll like it. I certainly tried, and look what happened then!

Final Result- E Ranking (0.5 stars out of five)
<|_=00=_|>
Disney's trips into live-action comedy always have a consistent tone:
bright, bubbly, bumbling, and inoffensive, with just the slightest hint
of edge. Alexander is no different. If only its humor would land...and
when it did, it wasn't beat to death. Instead of spending any amount of
time on a coherent story or a real purpose, it sways towards cheap,
dumb humor. Alexander is the kind of nonsensical slapstick "family"
comedy that kids will inevitably enjoy and forget, while parents will
be forced to endure and forget. Alexander is a preteen that has a bad
but NORMAL day (popularity, girls, small chemistry fire); that same
day, his family is celebrating some truly great developments (new job,
best-selling book, first prom). Alex decides, out of spite or
loneliness or something, that his misery deserves company, so he wishes
for them to have a horrible day. And they do. And by the end of the
movie, they area better family?! What's the lesson in that?! If things
aren't going your way, then hope the people you love have it even
worse? The premise could've been solid: really push the over-the-top
notion of this down-on-his-luck kid struggling to survive juxtaposed
against a perfect and aloof family. They even hired some great
performers that could've really gotten some genuine laughs.
Unfortunately, most of these actors are completely wasted, and in the
end, Alexander tries to have its cake and eat it too, half its toe in
fantasy and the other half in sloppy reality. Maybe I'm asking too much
from a kid's film, but Alexander is a pointless and mostly laughless
outing.
<|_=00=_|>
One thing I definitely wasn't expecting to do during Alexander and the
terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day, was laugh. It's nowhere near
a perfect comedy, but is still very enjoyable. Watching the trailer for
this movie all I was thinking was 1. Another bomb for Steve Carell (who
can be laugh out loud hilarious) and 2. I want to barf right now. I
mean this movie just looked so awful. For the kind of movie this is, a
62% on rotten tomatoes is absolutely shocking. But you can never know
how good a movie is until you watch it so I thought "what the hell,
I'll give it a shot".

So basically, Alexander (I'm not saying the whole title) is about a kid
who is about a kid who can never seem to have an actually decent day.
We get a day in the life of him in the first 15 or 20 min of the film
and yeah...his life totally sucks. His family seems to have great
things going for themselves, his mom works happily in the book
industry, his sister is the best stage actress in her school, his older
brother is dating a hot chick and about to get his driver's license,
and his father and his baby brother really don't do anything at all.
The next day is Alexander's birthday and nobody from his school is
coming because they're all going to some cool kid's party. That night
at midnight, Alexander makes a wish that his family knew what a totally
awful day is like. Of course, the wish comes true, and we get to see
Alexander have a great day while his family has a god awful day. 

It's a pretty stupid concept. I can't say it's executed perfectly, but
for the kind of film it is the filmmakers execute it well. It's kind of
hard to believe that I liked this movie. There's many laugh out loud
moments and even though it has some Hollywood moments, it's not
consistent. I've seen some family films these days that try and fail to
put in some mild jokes that push the PG rating. In this, they do that
perfectly because they're not too profound adult jokes. 

Overall, Alexander and the terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day
mostly avoids the Hollywood territory. It's not a fabulous comedy by
any means, but you'll get a lot of laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in expecting this comedy to deliver at least fun and laughs to
enjoy but, alas, it fell extremely short on almost every aspect of
story, comedy and character developments. Who ever did the casting
should not have done so. Either that or somebody must have decided to
pay up on favors.

The beginning was predictable as was the plot as was the final ending.
You know a film is bad when the kids and parents both seem restless at
many points during the film. This film lacked substance and creative
material not to mention a brief and simple title for average movie
goers.
<|_=00=_|>
nice light family movie show the importance of the family and positives
and show that you can extract the good from any bad day or worst
situation

nice way to show the funny events through the movie nice casting in
summary the movie have all the element of watchable good movie nothing
much to say about it
<|_=00=_|>
Film Review of the movie Alexander and the terrible horrible no good
very bad day.

Introduction Alexander and the terrible horrible, no good, very bad day
was launched in 2014 by Disney, and was directed by Miguel Arteta.
Alexander and the terrible is a comedy and family film with an age
limit year 9+. It was produced by Shawn Levy, Dan Levina and Lisa
Henson.

Main actors Steve Carell as Ben Cooper.

Jennifer Garner as Kelly Cooper.

Dylan Remind Gillette as Anthony Cooper.

Kerris Dorsey as Emily Cooper.

Ed Oxenbould as Alexander Cooper.

Elise Vargas and Zoey Vargas as Baby Trevor

Main Action The film begins with Alexander wakes up in the morning,
everyone else has a glorious day. He goes get to brush your teeth, and
her sister Kelly discovers gum in his hair. He ends up cutting a piece
of hair. The mother can be vice president, the father can join a game
company as a video game programmer. His brother has a perfect life with
girlfriend and will run up to the driver's license and her sister has
got the role in Peter Pan play at school. He comes to school and learns
that Phillip Parker is having a party not birthday on Alexander's
birthday, everyone will go to his party. Alexander set fire to "Crush"
his lab book. He ran after day with more and more bad luck. The next
day was the his birthday, his desire that everyone in the family got to
know how his day was every day. Alexander has an absolutely perfect
day. Phillip Parker has gotten chickenpox and his party is canceled.
While Alexander has an absolutely perfect day has everyone else in the
family an absolutely terrible no good no good very bad day. Mora nearly
lost your job, dad's interview did not go well, Baby Trevor ate a pen,
her sister is very ill and his brother crashed the car and did not pass
a driver's license test. They go to the doctor and get cough syrup to
Emily, but Emily drinking everything gets much cough syrup and becomes
"High" before the play. She crashes the whole scene and the whole
spectacle was ruined!

no job and was promoted to vice president of the company. His father
got a interview at a Japanese restaurant, the interview is going very
well. He managed to get 10 shrimp in a row in the mouth while a cook
tossed shrimp on him, but he is set on fire .. He was a fierce pirate!
He got the job because the game designers thought he was cool and had
good ideas on a Space simulator game.

So, it comes to Alexander's birthday ... It was an alligator in the
house! Parent had rented in a whole Australian zoo in the garden.
Alexander loves Australia, throughout his room is covered by Australian
souvenirs. The party was fighting well, there were many cubs basis of
the school and the whole class to Alexander arrived at the party but,
they had rented 3 "Cowboys" to the party which was actually male
strippers, "Cowboys" understood that it was a children's party they had
been hired in to. Therefore, they began to dance with back flips and
cool tricks to the children who watched.

Environment The environment in the film is very sunny, they spend much
of the color green. The film seems to be filmed in the USA with typical
yellow school buses and chemistry labs. The action takes place most at
school, at home, on the street and at work. It's very calm atmosphere
and environment in the film. Means and camera The film seems to be in
the present (2014) they use modern technology to daily use for example
phone and PC. There is much joy between families and friends, expected
since it is a children / family film. Alexander's values ​​are family
and friends. The protagonists have no form of special development. No
one who was naughty or nice that was good or bad. Film is told by
Alexander with narration through film. There was tension curve when the
family got unlucky, and highlight when the family gathered and tried to
resist bad luck The film will be shown at eye level / normal
perspective, comrade moved very smooth.Vi see people in a half-close
and close image, we see the environment in the light of people who are
focused on. The edited movie to a leisurely pace. The cliffs sometimes
between people, and shows the drive sometimes. Tuning of the film is
quite kid-friendly, widely used bright colors and quiet sound. The film
has a varied pace, started quietly and walked faster when Alexander
wanted the family bad luck that birthday wish. I think the movie is
trying to tell us that some days are just too poor to try to fix. And
that Man should be happy in family and friends. I think the morale of
the film is that one should not wish bad things over his family, and
that some days are just too bad to fix. The film is suitable for
teenagers, they had some jokes / scenes that were a little
inappropriate for children under 12 years. Eg. That Emily was "High",
male strippers. Without those, it had been a clear 7-9 year age limit.
Self-assessment Would recommend it to family and friends to watch the
. It's a good movie to watch if you are bored. It shows what the
family can achieve if they just stand together. Seems movie was pretty
good, was somewhat inappropriate jokes and scenes in the film. There
are many funny scenes where the family has unimaginable bad luck
Otherwise it was a good film with humorous scenes and a good end where
the family gets together and have a good day. I therefore I think this
movie deserves a 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
When something fresh and successful comes along, everyone wants a piece
of it. Shortly following the films release, a number of copycats emerge
and to be honest most of them are terrible. Maybe it's because we tend
to compare it to the original or maybe it's because the scripts are
rushed and just aren't that good. In any case, after the release of the
Wimpy Kid series, we saw a lot of these family comedies, centering on
the not so popular kids, and as expected, most of them were awful, with
one notable exception. Alexander's bad day focuses on a young man whose
birthday coincides with his first day of middle school, which doesn't
go so well. After receiving no sympathy from his family, Alexander
wishes that they all had their own bad day, and the results were
hilarious. This isn't the typical PG family comedy you see from Disney,
as it was quite raunchy for them and really pushes the boundary of that
PG rating. Ed Oxenbould stars as Alexander and fits the role like a
glove. Oxenbould looks and sounds kind of awkward, after all it is a
strange age, but watching him gave the feeling that he's not all that
unfamiliar with being unpopular. Possibly playing on real life
experience, he rivals Alex Gordon with a performance that was not only
believable, but it was also very funny. Another advantage this film has
over the Wimpy Kid series is that the young cast has help from some of
Hollywood's elite, as co-stars include Steve Carell and Jennifer
Garner. The pair give a lot of support and the producers use them to
break-up the middle school monotony that would has surely ensued. While
not my usual genre, I loved the Wimpy kid series, but Alexander's bad
day is more than an adequate alternative for those who are looking for
something a little bit different.
