
I usually avoid movies I know will be explicit and include crude humor
because it's just not my cup of tea. So, right off the bat I was
expecting this movie to be absolutely horrible... I do not know if it
was my low expectations before the screening, but I actually enjoyed
this movie very much. In order to enjoy this movie, however, you do
have to somewhat detach yourself from thinking too much into the wealth
of racist and crude humor contained in the movie. Nevertheless, The
Dictator is satire, it is a movie making fun of the real world, and if
you let it be, it makes you aware (while laughing) at the racist
thoughts and stereotypes ordinary people have everyday. Yes, it has its
strange and explicit scenes, but overall, I think it has substance and
it was very funny. Put your "Victorian" influences aside for a night
and have a good laugh. Watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie with my friend. I would consider that we both
have a good sense of humor and are open to all sorts of jokes. I have
seen other movies by Sacha Baron Cohen, like Bruno and Borat. I found
Borat to be hilarious, but Bruno was a bit over the top for me. This
movie strikes a balance between the two, but leans more towards (my
personally favored) Borat side.

The comedy in this movie is both hilarious and uncomfortable at times.
It has the same LOL- quality as it did in Borat, but there are scenes
where the comedy is so crude that it is almost uncomfortable
watching/listening to it. The movie is definitely funny, but you will
not enjoy it if you do not find jokes about racism and stereotypes
funny.

The plot is your typical Sacha Baron Cohen plot; a person from an
entirely different culture travels to America and you watch how
incompatible the two cultures are. Also, just like most of Sacha Baron
Cohen movies, there is a love story intertwined. It's not the dramatic
and sensitive kind of love story though. The plot itself is not very
immersive, and I believe that its only purpose is to lead you to the
funny parts.

I will say this though, the ending speech of this movie given by 'The
Dictator' really impressed me. It made me realize how well Sacha Baron
Cohen understands politics and stereotypes. You have to hear it for
yourself.

If you're looking for a movie with consistent but crude laugh-out-loud
comedy, but do not look for a serious and powerful plot, then you will
enjoy this film. On the other hand, if you cringe at racist and
stereotype jokes, you will be covering your ears virtually the entire
movie.

Approach with an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a little perplexed having read a couple of user reviews - one of
them said this was movie was unbelievable and unconvincing due to the
fact that it had a love theme going on? huh? I suppose the film 'A
Nightmare on Elm Street' is unbelievable too? In fact, how many movies
are believable? 'The Dictator' is a comedy, nothing less and nothing
more than that, and that was the intention. Whether it's believable or
not is irrelevant. The movie had plenty of laugh out loud moments.

I'm glad this movie headed in a different direction from his previous
efforts. Had the film continued in the same fashion as the reality TV
way, then I don't think it would have stood any chance of working, not
with this new character anyway. So to those who are expecting and
hoping for something similar to Bruno and Borat you may be left a
little disappointed, but for those who wouldn't mind seeing something
slightly different, and can take a movie for what it is, then you
should enjoy this, as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
The non-stop jokes, off-color humor, slapstick and under 90 minute
running time of "The Dictator" hearkens back to early Woody Allen gems
like "What's Up Tiger Lily," "Take The Money and Run," "Bananas," and
"Love and Death. And, in the world of comedy, that's quite a
compliment.

Like Cohen, Allen's first films were often misunderstood. Some folks
just did not get the joke. Many still don't get it today. The object of
comedy has always been to take down the high and mighty by whatever
means necessary. And, if you happen to be a Middle Eastern despot, you
will find much to be offended by here. But, as Allen often did as well,
Cohen uses racial and gender stereotypes to shine a light on people's
attitudes, and that's likely to put off others as well. That's fine.
Some comedy just isn't for everyone.

While his writing style owes much to Allen, his acting chops are also
influenced heavily by one of Britain's greatest comics, Peter Sellers.
You can see it in his outrageous accents and in his ridiculous
pratfalls. Like Sellers, Cohen is fearless in his characterizations
and, again, like Sellers, there will be those who will take offense in
this. Again, not for everyone. But, if you laughed your butt off at
Sellers' simpleton Indian character destroying a Hollywood party, you
will be laughing here too.

And that's what we're talking about; laughs. Not every joke works. Many
fall flat. But the film starts off fast and furious with a rapid
succession of gags, most of which work hilariously, settles down for a
bit and then takes off again, literally. His verbal sparring with
co-star Jason Mantzoukas is one of the highlights as are many of the
fun cameo appearances and a running joke about his name that I will not
reveal here. There are many great sight gags that are easily missed and
the appearance of his Efawadh character at the U.N. channels a scene
right out of Allen's "Sleeper." There's a few scatological and sex
jokes also (one about excrement, one about urination, one about
masturbation, several about body parts), and these, if you ask me, are
the low point of the film (except a child birth scene that's as funny
as it is outrageous). But, the bodily fluid gags, so rampant in comedy
films today, are actually few and far between. And there's a bit of a
message, too.

We're not dealing with "Citizen Kane" here. But, then, this film made
me laugh much more.
<|_=00=_|>
I wish there were more comedies like that - crossing over the political
correctness line, but not over the line of good taste, so as to make a
movie hard to watch.

The film is quite pointy, it is for a moderate audience and will make
all kinds of extremists quite unhappy. The plot is well thought out and
funny. It'll nail you to the screen.

I like the unorthodox character of this film, Sacha Baron Cohen's
movies are definitely one of the kind. I wouldn't consider the humor
crude, but it is certainly honest. Some of the unthinkable things you
see are likely to have happened in reality.
<|_=00=_|>
Just been to see this film and could never stop laughing. Sacha Baron
Cohen is a true comedic talent...an excellent writer as the jokes in it
are genius. The film is short but packed full of laughter. Perhaps I'm
an easy laugher, but what can I say, I liked it!!! A LOT!!! As well as
the comedy being brilliant, the actual plot/storyline is superb also.
From watching the trailer, and then watching the film, it was actually
a completely different story to how I thought it was going to be. I
wasn't very excited to see the film after the trailers, but decided to
venture in... I enjoyed it much more than I expected and will likely
see it again! It isn't for the easily-offended but if this is your sort
of humor then you need to go and watch it now!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the funniest movies I know! There are so many good jokes based
on what's happening in the world. If you read the news on a daily basis
and know what's going on in the world you'll like this movie. Some
people may not like Cohen but I think he's a genius. It really takes
something to show the problems that we have in a funny way. However you
should really go and watch that movie, it's worth the money. I
personally watched it twice in theater. Now I really don't know what to
write anymore without giving away any jokes because the jokes come one
after another. I was already laughing out loud after one minute. It's
really cool if you watch a movie in theater and everyone in the room is
laughing. So my definitive final conclusion is that The Dictator is
more than a movie, it's an experience ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview screening of this in London.

As expected from Sacha's previous outings and trailers, this film is in
extremely bad taste with plenty of filth, blatant offence (disguised as
naivety) of every race, gender, age, animal, disability, sexual
orientations, terrorism and politics. Sacha gets away with it because
no one is left out. No one, including white folks and straight men.
Actually, I lie. I don't know how the hell he gets away with it. The
important question is, though, is it funny? Yeah...mostly.

There are enough roll in the isle moments to make this worth the ticket
but there are also plenty of misfired jokes too, some of which really
makes you groan but that's to be expected for a relentless joke firing
machine which incidentally has (perhaps mercifully) a short run time of
84mins. 

Another burning question I ask myself, while watching this is do I feel
guilty laughing at some of the offencive jokes? Yes I do, my guilty
conscience raises its ugly head but then I realise (or perhaps I'm just
making excuses) that I am laughing at the Dictator's naivety and
hilarious sense of misplaced morality while others around him frown at
his demeanours.

This is a departure from the Borat, Ali G, and Bruno stable. With those
previous films, real people are sought after and ridiculed by
scrutinising their reactions and moral bases. This film, however is
purely fictitious, Naked Gun style comedy very much similar to Eddie
Murphy's Coming to America with obviously a lot lot less subtlety.
However, Sacha's Dictator has pretty much the same political
correctness that Borat has but with more hilarious Dictatorship
cravings such as executing anyone that annoys him.

A good supporting cast thankfully gives this zany film a little bit
more variety, particularly Anna Francis, comically playing off the
Dictator's character who frankly dominates almost every frame (as I
guess a dictator would). John C Reilly also gives a short but hilarious
turn. And then there are a few special cameo celebrity guest
appearances (or victims, rather) sprinkled around. 

There are a couple of moments political satire that stands out in
hilarity and I wish there was more of it. Alas, it seems vulgarity is
more favoured.

So if you have no guilty conscience, welcome vulgarity and all things
"un-pc" with open arms, do not despise Sacha Cohen Baron and are
willing to kiss his armpits (last one is optional), then I reckon you
will enjoy this film. For me, filthy films are not my normal cup of
tea, nevertheless I did enjoy this but I need a long shower after
watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really cannot believe the reviews I am reading about this film, how
funny it is, an instant classics etc... Let me first begin by saying I
am a huge Sacha b Cohen fan, I love his stuff, Ali G, Borat & Bruno.
All hysterically funny, some what very unnerving to watch at times, but
that a massive part of the appeal... They were below the belt humor,
especially Bruno, that you really hadn't seen before and didn't know
how to react to it, which made it hysterical.

The dictator was non of that. It had brief funny bits in, that were
really obvious as well, throughout the film. I was so disappointed as
the trailer looked funny and being an avid fan could not wait for the
release. But like i say, it wasn't, it was just obvious lets make quick
money Hollywood nonsense that so many films seem to be these days.

I actually started to think, "is it me, am I getting too old for this
sort of stuff?". I'm 48 and went to see the film with my 20 year old
sons who also thought the film was rubbish!!

What is it with so many films these days that they seem to of lost all
sense of character? I love a film, I love a good comedy, but I haven't
seen anything decent in a long time because there always seems to be
something missing or lacking from the the films these days. Has all the
writers run out of ideas, or has everything just been done to death
now?

Get your act together Sacha, you know your better than this Hollywood
bulls**t, don't let those idiots ruin what and who you are!!

That's the truth right there pal, despite all the hype I bet you agree
with my comments!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely dirty, offensive, hilarious, racist, and
crazy over-the-top moments. It's about the same style as Sacha Baron
Cohen's previous movies, but it's done much better. Cohen plays a silly
ruthless dictator named Admiral General Aladeen. He is very
anti-semitic and plans on creating nuclear weapons. He hates the very
idea of democracy. While on his way to the United Nations, he's
betrayed and shaven so no one would recognize him. He's taken in by
Zoey, a vegan hippie, and gives him a job at her store. Will Aladeen
make it to the U.N. to stop democracy from coming to his country, or
will Zoey change his heart? I would definitely recommend THE
DICTATOR!!!
