
Basically, if you're a romantic drama type, you'll love this movie. I'm
NOT a romantic drama type, and I still enjoyed it immensely. The
shining star, no pun intended, for me was Channing Tatum. He added so
much subtle, and sometimes not-so-subtle, comedy to the movie. The
ending was also not expected but I was satisfied with it. That said
though, I could have easily watched another 30 minutes of this. No one
was ready for it to end and that's a good sign. The plot is what it is,
being based on a true story and all. It felt like the screenwriters and
director wanted to stay close to the actual events and it worked. I
would have paid for this and been happy. Romance drama fans will be
pleased. Non romance drama fans will be pleased.
<|_=00=_|>
When I went with my two friends to see this movie, I thought we were in
for a ladies night out and a teary chick flick. I was pleasantly
surprised. The drama and dialog were very believable and realistic, and
it was pleasingly funny in places. The fact that the setting was
clearly Chicago without any effort to try and hide street signs and
restaurant placards only added to the charm and believability of the
movie. Quickly into the film I was wishing I was friends with this
couple and could hang out with them and be part of their lives. When
the credits started rolling I desired our relationship to continue.
O.k. maybe I had a couple of tears, but I would definitely see this
movie again and take my husband. After seeing the number of men in the
audience who enjoyed it, I think he would feel comfortable attending
and glad that he went.
<|_=00=_|>
The Vow is a wonderful little movie. At first blush, the movie seemed
like it's another 50 First Dates, but without the comedy. The only
similarity to 50 First Dates is that both the female leads suffer from
amnesia with their respective significant others trying to win her
heart. The Vow actually comes across having a feel more like The
Notebook.

It's the story of the romance between Leo (Channing Tatum) and Paige
(Rachel McAdams), and who are victims of a car accident. Leo recovers,
but Paige emerges with no memories of her whole relationship nor
marriage to Leo, and he must now make her fall in love with him again.
In her mind, as Leo says in one of the trailers for this movie, she's
still engaged to her ex-fiancé.

The movie manages to avoid cheap Hollywood writing, and gently leads
you down its plot. Just when you think you might know where the story
is going, it heads in a different direction. Details are revealed to
you layer by layer as Paige discovers them. Tatum's voice-over was
somewhat annoying, and unnecessary.

In trying to remember her memories, Paige manages to gain a new life.
Opening in time for Valentine's Day, this makes for a wonderful
date-night movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Vow was made for the Valentine's Day audience. As I went into this
movie on the evening of February 14th, the theatre was packed with
couples. This movie gave them exactly what they paid for. There were
plenty of cute moments that make you say, "ahhhhhh." There strange
nostalgic moments that makes you realize exactly how much time Rachel
McAdams forgot (wait for the moment when she turns to Channing Tatum
and asks him who the President of the United States is).

This movie delivered for the audience at large. But several problems
persist. For such a unique perspective on memory loss, The Vow falls
into the flow of the average romantic comedy. As the core of the
storyline develops (which strangely reminds me of Terri Schiavo), I
can't help but feel like I have seen this before. There were so many
interesting possibilities that a memory-loss movie could pursue.
Instead, the writing team (which is known for big star movies such as
He's Just Not That Into You and Valentine's Day) decides to take the
safe route. The writing team stops this movie from being great.

Despite its problems, The Vow relies heavily on its actors. With Rachel
McAdams, Channing Tatum, Sam Neill, and Scott Speedman (who I still see
as the romantic interest from the TV hit "Felicity), relying so heavily
on your actors is perfectly alright. Rachel McAdams and Channing Tatum
have a chemistry that I didn't expect. This chemistry drives the
storyline forwards and leads to several dramatic and hilarious scenes
that will surprise you.

I need to make a note about movies that are "Based on a True Story."
It's difficult to take these story lines at face value. By basing a
story on true events, the producers are hoping that you will not look
too far into the plausibility of the situation. When you compare the
movie with the true events, however, the differences are immense.
Namely, the movie makes the crash result in one problem: the loss of
several years of memories. In reality, the woman what badly hurt and
also suffered from severe short term memory loss. The possibility of
losing several years of memories and not haven't any other physical
side-effects (aside form a tiny scar around her eyes) is almost
entirely impossible.

The Vow is cute enough to enjoy at face-value. If you are looking for a
movie to simply enjoy and not think too deeply, this is the movie for
you. 2012 has been an awful year for Romantic Comedies. One for the
Money was dreadful. This Means War promises to be almost as bad. If you
are pining for a romantic comedy, this will fill your appetite until
the first great one of the year is released. Looking over the list of
romantic comedies to be released, however, there isn't much. My money
is on the new American Pie movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In Chicago, Paige (Rachel McAdams) and Leo (Channing Tatum) have just
married and they are in love for each other. In a snowing night, they
have a car accident and Paige has a serious head injury and stays in
coma. When she awakes, she has partial recollection of her life until
five years ago and she does not recognize Leo.

Her estranged parents Rita (Jessica Lange) and Bill Thornton (Sam
Neill) use the unusual situation to bring Paige back home. Leo decides
to woo her again to have his wife back, but her ex-fiancé Jeremy (Scott
Speedman) is courting Paige and she does not know why she had broken
with him.

"The Vow" is a cute movie based on a true story. The cast is great,
with Jessica Lange, Sam Neill and Scott Speedman in supporting roles.
The charming Rachel McAdams performs a character that had completely
changed her personality from a silly Valley girl dominated by her
wealthy parents to a cool artist, but after the accident she returns to
her previous behavior; however the role of Leo deserved a better actor.
My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Para Sempre" ("Forever")
<|_=00=_|>
The movie doesn't touch you at the right level so you don't cry. It's
the kind of story you know how it has to end so you're waiting too long
for Paige and Leo to get back together.

The film requires plenty of just go with it. From the "here's a reason
to take off my seat belt" to the tap to the back of the car that
launches Paige through the windshield, things seemed so written. Add to
this Leo showing up in the hospital with a tea shirt cut like, and in
the color of scrubs to look like a doctor.

The story about what turned Paige into a rebel complete with tattoo
seemed forced. If she was upset with her parents, why didn't she
maintain a relationship with her sister?

Good performances make it watchable especially if you don't think too
much. Jessica Lange is well past the stage of King Kong bait. No reason
to see it in a theater, wait for cable or DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
For a story that seems tailor-made to be a tug at your heartstrings,
tearjerker kind of movie (and it's inspired by an actual story of a
woman who loses her memory of her husband after a car crash and falls
in love with him all over again, so how could this miss?) it is
surprisingly weak in the emotion department. The problems begin with
the lack of any discernible chemistry between Rachel McAdams and
Channing Tatum (who play Paige and Leo - the fictional couple who go
through that nightmare scenario) and it continues with weak acting and
a bunch of important characters who are just totally unlikable. The
only part of the movie that came across to me as raw with emotion was
when Leo slugged Jeremy in the face. I'd have done the same thing under
the circumstances. But it made me wonder why this movie had to be
populated with such imbecilic characters.

Sam Neill as Paige's father and Jessica Lange as her mother are nothing
short of manipulative as they try to turn their daughter's horrible
accident and memory loss to their own advantage, actively trying to cut
Leo out of their daughter's life, and Jeremy (Scott Speedman) is no
less manipulative. The downright ugliness of those characters certainly
raises up in the viewer a desire for things to work out for Leo and
Paige, but they don't make the movie enjoyable. McAdams struck me as
lost through most of this - her portrayal of Paige and her situation
just not coming across as believable, and Tatum didn't especially
impress me either.

The basic concept has been seen before. Think "50 First Dates"
(although this is more serious than that) or "Regarding Henry"
(although this is less serious than that.) What this should have going
for it is the "inspired by true events" angle, but frankly that gets
done so much now that I don't think anyone takes it all that seriously.
I'm glad it worked out for the real life couple whose story did inspire
this. I just wish this movie had itself been a bit more inspiring.
(2/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer and immediately thought chick flick something good to
see with the girls or drag my boyfriend too. And sitting in the theater
as the credits are rolling the only thing going through my mind was
that I felt jipped. It's nothing like how it seems in the trailer. The
trailer makes it out that she's working with Leo to regain her memory
and eventually fall back in love with him. And it is like the last 20
minutes! The rest of the time you just want to punch her because she's
acting like a little brat unwilling to even consider the reasons or
facts about her being with Leo. She basically blows him off and acts
like he doesn't even matter. Redbox it is my suggestion.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was essentially like a mediocre version of a Nicholas Sparks
book-to-film movie. The acting was great but the execution just wasn't
there. Rachel McAdams' character seemed pretty stupid and, given that
it's a true story, it just makes it seem even more dumb. There have got
to be 1000 such stories with "smarter" people involved or better
endings. The fact that this movie was based on one with a moronic
character and a mediocre ending shows just how masochist viewers are.
The movie is slow, not emotional enough given the subject matter, and
just in general not all that good. The only emotional part of the movie
was the scene with Paige (McAdams' character) interacting with her mom
near the end of the movie. For a film about a girl who loses her memory
and therefore the memory of the love of her life, this movie was pretty
blah. The movie wasn't terrible but it definitely doesn't reach the
elite chick-flick level.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is blah and pretty boring. There is zero chemistry between
the stars. The set director seems to think messy is what an authentic
apartment in the city looks like and the whoever was in charge of
wardrobe should be made to wear those hideous outfits for the next
year.

The only reason this didn't get a one from me is that it really does
capture that "hometown in the big city" essence of some of the
neighborhoods in Chicago. 

The following contains general spoilers, not specifics.

What really turned me off about this movie was that anyone thought this
story was inspiring enough to put it on screen. I was shocked when I
found out it was based proudly on a real story. Let me tell you I would
not want to know the woman who was the inspiration for Paige. 

The movie portrayed Paige after the accident, but they don't really
show us much of what she as like before the accident. The few glimpses
give us the impression that she was a woman who loved life and honored
the bond of marriage. I don't buy it. Losing your memory may change
things, but, it does not change your underlying personality. Paige
didn't turn into a selfish, uncaring _itch. She probably always was
one.

A decent woman would have put some effort into recovering her marriage
and would have, at the very least, had some respect for the man she was
married to. This woman didn't care that she was ripping this poor man's
heart out. She cared for no one but herself. At least as far as the
movie was concerned, she never gave much thought to anyone but herself.
She was, after all, not the only one who was going through a traumatic,
life-changing experience and she was not the only one injured in the
car crash. If this story is actually true, my heart goes to the woman's
real family.

This should never have been immortalized in film. It is the very
epitome of the "me" generation. 

The best part of the movie for me was when the end credits finally
started rolling so we could leave.
