
Wendy (Heche) and her family have just moved into a new town where her
husband is set to be the new Pastor in the church. What starts off as a
nice new life in a town with great people soon turns horrific when the
true intentions of the outgoing Pastor are revealed.

It started off really slow with no real character development. It went
from a slow Feel good movie to a romantic until there was something
like a horror. 

It's all agonizingly slow build-up to one of the girls getting
possessed by an ancient evil). Constant crosscuts give the impression
that nobody involved could make it through a full scene without nodding
off. 

Even Anne Heche (not a big role) could not drag this movie out of the
boring trash (not her best performance, mildly said). The music is
sometimes far fetched and not in accordance with the current evnet.
Almost everything seems to go in slow motion, Such as a pickup truck
gliding past houses at the residential speed limit. The movie is a
waste of time.....
<|_=00=_|>
I first heard about this film when Slash was doing interviews about how
the company was going to make films more reminiscent to older horror
films, where they played on the psychological aspect rather than
relying on gore or overt special effects. I was immediately looking
forward to it for this reason alone - the horror genre seems stuck in a
deep rut, and only knows how to remake Japanese films, make yet another
uninspired haunted house film, or go down the Saw/Hostel route and make
it as bloody and nauseating as possible.

This film doesn't deserve the lowly rating it has received here on
IMDb. I suspect much of that is simply the people rating aren't used to
this type of horror - not all the answers are given to you, it's a
slow-burning story too. It is wonderful at what it does, but if you're
rating it as a comparison to Nightmare on Elm Street then you'll be
disappointed.

One of the main things I liked about this film was the development of
the characters. In horror today much of the time you never get to know
who the people are - and often, if you do get to know them, you don't
like them. Probably to make it easier when they inevitably get bumped
off. Nothing Left to Fear took the time to build the characters up
though - we get a voyeuristic glimpse into their lives; the close
family, the realistic bond between the sisters, the doubt and hope in
the parents after moving to a new town.

The character of Noah was excellent too - from watching other films the
audience would have certain expectations or suspicions about him, and
it was great how his character didn't play out to any clichés, which
was a welcome twist.

I felt the film had a good pace too - again, it utilised time to build
up the characters and the plot, and there were some very good
subtleties and references to the situation that can be picked up on
second viewing.

One of the best things about the film was how it didn't rely on effects
or overt scare tactics, it managed to be creepy without it. The score
was artfully done, especially during the 'Passover' scene, building up
the tension beautifully. Of course, *some* effects were used, but it
was tasteful and to accurately portray the story, rather than as a tool
to scare the audience to save the writers the job of actually writing
something scary.

Contrary to some other reviews, I found the acting well done.
Especially for a horror flick, which as a genre is absolutely plagued
with sub-par actors. Again I suspect this is just because this is a
type of horror a lot of modern viewers aren't used to, but anyone with
even a passing interest in older horrors will enjoy this one - think
Rosemary's Baby: an entirely different story to Nothing Left to Fear,
but one that expertly built tension and avoided clichés, creating
familiarity with the characters. NLTF is more like that than Saw or
Insidious, and it's all the better for it.

It isn't the best horror film ever made, but it's by no means the worst
and in comparison to most horrors of the last decade (or 2) it really
stands on its own as an enjoyable, creepy film. It's also worth
remembering that this is a debut film for everyone - it's Slash's first
turn as producer, it was the director's first film behind the the
camera, and the company's first offering.

If you're fed up with the factory-line horrors of late, knowing that
it'll be another knock-off or cheap imitation, give Nothing Left to
Fear a try with an open mind. It's a very good film, and gives pause
for recollection at the end, where each viewer can reach their own
conclusions about what happened and why.
<|_=00=_|>
Pastor Dan and his family relocate to the a small town in the Midwest
for his new job. His daughter Becky, upon arrival, begins having
horrific nightmares. These night terrors provide the audience with a
bit of horror until the main plot actually begins to unravel. By the
time the mystery is revealed, you'll be scratching your head and
wondering what just happened.

Pros: The acting was decent and the budget was right. We also have the
nightmares, which are creative and foreshadow the story, without giving
it away too much. 

Cons: The creature in the movie was CGI and looked cheap. Also the plot
did failed to explain why the town was accursed to begin with.

I give it 6.5 out of ten. For a similar movie that was made right, I
recommend The Shrine.
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably a film would make a passable 'first horror' film for a
teenager ... however as a thirty something I found it dull, facile and
utterly boring. If you like a film with some sort of pace - this is
certainly not the film for you. It's a shame as the cast seems
promising and the premise is actually quite interesting. The main issue
this film has is it is sloooooow to the point of being a cure for
insomnia. I'm assuming the idea was to give the viewer plenty of
'getting to know you' room with the characters so we really really care
about them, get invested in them. Yeah -that doesn't happen here. All
that happens is you find yourself watching the clock waiting to see how
long it is before it ends. Adding to that is lacklustre cinematography,
dull scripts and painful to watch teen led drama and all in all this
film is a fail.
<|_=00=_|>
Heche, the once promising actress whom I enjoyed very much in several
films, was sent to the gates of hell -- this film (and that's what this
film is about). This may be the worst film I ever watched all the way
through. Kinda makes you yearn for the good old days when nitrate films
slowly disintegrated and became lost to history.

Anne Heche is pretty much irrelevant to the film, other than that there
has to be a mother (karma exists...she and several other family members
die before the film is over). James Tupper is satisfactory as the
father/minister, but perhaps he is better suited for soap operas than
the big screen. Ethan Peck is a handsome young actor, but -- at least
in this film -- seems pretty bland. Rebekah Brandes, as one of the
daughters, may have some potential. Matty B...oh please. Jennifer Stone
gets another "okay" as the daughter/victim. Clancy Brown is quite good
as the departing pastor.

The story is another of the never-ending horror stories about a young
woman being sacrificed to hell. But this one is different -- it's
really lousy. The first half of the film is totally boring, which the
director apparently mistook for building suspense; there was no
suspense in the first half of the film. In terms of being a director,
Anthony Leonardi III is not ready to leave the art department, where he
has spent most of his career. In the "Los Angeles Times" review of this
film it was written that "director Anthony Leonardi III and writer
Jonathan Mills have let not one scary moment on screen" and that actors
Heche and Tupper should write apology notes to their fans." Truer words
were never spoke.

I like horror films, but I'm so glad I didn't waste money to see this
one at the theater. And my suggestion to you is that you not spend your
time watching this on cable.

I'll tell you what I thought while watching this -- didn't anyone
notice how badly things were going???
<|_=00=_|>
Classic example of a film that had potential but which also had a
producer who failed to see the importance of an actual story-line.
(Which made any sense)

The story follows a family being lured to a village on the pretense of
the father (a pastor) taking a job at the village church. The villagers
have an ulterior motive. One of the family members is selected to be
possessed by the devil, in a pagan type "wickerman" village ritual. The
devil (occupying the body of possessed family member) is then left
about its business to kill all but one of the family members. The
remaining one is used in a further ritual to banish the devil back to
wherever it came from.

The next family is lured to the village to continue the cycle.

All this is fine and dandy. But there is no explanation of crucial
background details / any details to make sense of the plot?

Why the devil is given a sacrifice from a family to possess for just
long enough to kill part of that family, before being unhappily
banished again?

What happens if the cycle doesn't take place?

What is the criteria of the ritual which needs to be fulfilled? One
dead, two dead? Once a year? 

Maybe Just don't bother and see what happens??

Also things happen throughout the film which seem irrelevant or
unexplained;

At one point the father within the doomed family is rendered
unconscious with chloroform over his face and locked in a church. Why
did that happen? Did they intend to save him from the devil?

At one point the other pastor of the village coughs up black blood when
the possessed member (devil) is injured - I hoped this would lead to a
twist in the plot which explained that he was manufacturing the whole
need for this ritual due to an evil pseudo identity- but nothing more
came of it.

At one point there is red crosses painted on the doors and at others
scenes of sheep having their blood drained into buckets- can we assume
one is connected to ther other. Can we assume the red Sheep blood
crosses keeps the devil out? (Why?) 

Assuming things is the theme of this movie.

all in all it's always enjoyable watching scenes of possessed people
killing their family members. Even if completely random with no
explanation for why it is necessary is ever given.

On a side note Can't help but notice striking resemblance between "the
devil" and the grumpy girl from the well in "the ring"

:)
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot recall having seen even one decent movie featuring Anne Heche;
she seems to be jinxed and to be a jinx. In this flick she mumbles and
swallows her lines, slurring many words in that irritating nasal style
favoured by so many very young girls today: odd because Ms Heche is not
a young girl. This absurd, time-waster film starts predictably,
continues predictably, ends predictably, with no compelling scenes or
real character development. At least the first several minutes had some
light balance, but most of the remainder was shot in almost darkness --
probably to help hide the abysmal fx and pathetic acting. What can I
say on a positive note about this cinematic experience? Well, it's over
and I will never see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite rare I can't find anything at least partly entertaining from
a horror movie, this one is one of the rare exceptions that confirms
the rule. I've seen tons of "indie" horror movies that were made with
only bits of the budget of that movie, that could at least make me feel
entertained. Very disappointing.

The acting is painfully bad, the story doesn't tie together with it's
holes filled plot, the image is grainy and poor and as if it wasn't
enough, the CGIs are so lame it makes it that much more painful to
watch. Even the few attempts at cheap scares don't even work! There are
so many goofs that made it through the editing, I believe the poor soul
that had to do it probably fell asleep. 

I had a hard time staying awake as the whole movie was so boring.

Love yourselves and don't waste time watching this poor movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This an okay movie. Good if you need to kill a couple of hours.
However, the plot line is bizarre. You are left wondering why they do
the things they do. The story does not set you up with any background
on the town, and why the townspeople are so weird. Also, they say this
is based on events and urban legends surrounding Stull, KS. They missed
the mark, and then over exaggerated it. This storyline has nothing to
do with anything that has ever happened in Stull, KS. Also, Stull, KS
had two strange murders years ago, and is barely a town. It is
unincorporated. There is an old church and cemetery where they say
satanic rituals are performed, and a few houses, and a few other
buildings. 

Regarding the real Stull and the old church - for reasons unknown to
anyone including the land owner, someone tore down the old tiny brick
church a few years ago. It is a pile of rubble. However, there is still
a staircase underneath the ground, that leads down to no-where. They
say that is a gateway to hell and you will feel a powerful pull if you
start down the stairs, and lose all track of time (like weeks). And
people who have camped near the cemetery have reported seriously
bizarre stuff and sounds. There is nothing like the real Stull legends
in the movie.

Regarding the movie, the children/young adult actors in this movie
dominate the film, and if it weren't for them, it would be pretty
robotic and dull. Heche was not into this movie at all, it seemed like
she felt obligated to be there. 

Bottomline -- it's definitely more bizarre than scary, so watch it if
you are bored and you have seen every other scary flick with a higher
rating.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I realize this movie isn't the best ever made or anything, but I
really don't understand all the negative reviews. Just don't watch it
with too many expectations. If you want an action packed thriller,
you're gonna be disappointed. If you want a bloody slasher, you're
going to be disappointed. If you want edge-of-your-seat suspense,
shocking jump scares, and a stellar plot line, you're gonna be
disappointed. If you just want to watch a fun horror flick with a
decent story line, moderately scary scenes, and an overall suspenseful
feel, you'll probably like this one. I agree, this movie definitely
starts slow. But if you give yourself a chance to get into the mood,
watch clear to the end, and enjoy it for what it is, it's really not
bad. Like I said, just enjoy it for what it is, and you probably won't
be too disappointed.
