
The movie was a waste of time and i am really disappointed. I could
describe this movie as a "wanna be movie"...the director wants to be
Guy Ritchie but he is not...50 cent wants to be an actor but he is not,
Ryan Phillipe wants to be a bad guy but he is not, because of his baby
face...when you see Bruce Willis on the cover you expect him to be
actually present in the movie but he is not...everything in this
project is poor...i really gave it a chance and watched all 90 min but
it was a waste of time. The act was too slow, it tried to build up
characters but it failed...many things were simply not there as script
and acting. I had hard time understanding the words of 50 cent, Ryan
Phillipe was OK but this character was simply not for him...he matches
other roles much better...Bruce Willis was OK too but he had a very
small and insignificant role.
<|_=00=_|>
Well this type of genre, i.e action, crime, heist is right up my
street. Add Bruce Willis to the frame and you would think that I was
onto a winner. Unfortunately this was not the case. I found the film to
be poorly directed, the acting wooden and the storyline predictable if
slightly erratic. After reading the synopsis I kind of thought I would
be in for a decent hour and a half. I found myself dropping off 55
minutes into the film which for an action film is pretty poor. Of
course, I say action but the truth is there was very little action in
it. Add to it a strange religious undertone which I suppose is to
signify the lead role is looking for redemption and you get a complete
mismatch/ conflict of interests. I give it a generous four out of ten
but take into consideration this is about the lowest I have ever scored
a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe the second half of this movie gets better. I don't know because I
couldn't stand watching any more than I did. I forgave the cheesy film
look, figuring it was intended to be part of the look and feel of
calibre of these characters - low grade hoodlums and unprofessional
professionals. The sequencing of events is clumsy. The believability of
what each of the characters is doing is way low. How one of the mob
guys shoots himself in the head while waiting for "a bag" (was it pot?
big deal!) is highly questionable. That the diamond guy ("hit man")
finds our protagonist so easily, then tells him he's got a week (a
week!?) to make good...well it was about there I began to consider to
quitting this movie. How did they get Bruce Willis to sign on? Willis
as the "mob boss" was...well, what can I say. His smirk just didn't
convey Godfather. This movie is not worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen movies that have plot holes big enough to drive trucks
through, some big enough to drive aircraft carriers through, but this
has got to be the first movie that I've seen that an entire planet
could get through the myriad of plot holes.

*****Oh Yes there be SPOILERS***** 

Plot Hole 1 So, let me understand this correctly, the ENTIRE Detroit
Police Department has gone on vacation for this movie.

We start out with 3 guys pulling over a car in downtown Detroit in the
middle of the morning by jumping out of their vehicle and just rattling
off a whole bunch of rounds with automatic weapons. LITERALLY hundreds,
perhaps thousands of bystanders, and not ONE of them thinks to call
911? Oh, and of course there isn't a police car within 1 or 2 miles of
this location? 

Plot Hole 2 The boys speed away in a vehicle that is completely
discreet, practically invisible... a brand new Chrysler White Van with
a logo on it, to some location down near the river to wait for their
contact to show up. Now of course, one of the 3 bad guys turns on his
two friends that he grew up with and shoots them, leaving one of them
alive of course, otherwise the movie would end there...wouldn't that
have been NICE? 

Then we have plot holes that I cannot understand because they're so
strange.

The Shooter has a sister that NEITHER one of his BEST BOYHOOD friends
know about and she just happens to be the DRIVER for the guy they
robbed.

Oh, the guy that got killed and was OBVIOUSLY one of the three guys
that pulled off the robbery just gets collected by ???? and has a nice
funeral instead of perhaps a cop or two determining who he was and
looking for his friends, etc. (Maybe in the cutbacks in Detroit there's
no homicide department or violent crimes department or robbery
department) Then we have a hit-man (we don't ever learn who he works
for) and we have Bruce Willis entering as the Mob Boss who magically
finds the guy who got shot (50 cent) and wants to hire him to do a job
for him which has NOTHING to do with the earlier things.

I watched this because I LIKE Bruce Willis, he's a good actor and does
a lot of really good movies, but really Bruce, did they offer you THAT
much money you couldn't walk away from this one? 

You cannot watch this movie without going WTF at least a dozen times.
I've reviewed some movies that I've advised you to just enjoy and go
along for the ride because of the great action sequences, THIS is NOT
going to be one of them. PLEASE give this a pass and let it end up in
the BARGAIN BIN of some obscure convenience store as soon as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Having noticed that this movie contains two big names such as Bruce
Willis and Ryan Phillippe, you may think that this is a worthy film.
No, you are entirely wrong.

I've never seen such an amateurish film with such high-profile actors.
It seems like out of $22 million spent on this flick, $20 million have
been spent on actors' fees, and the remaining trifling sum of money was
spent on production.

This film lacks everything - what you get is very bad acting, an
incoherent unrealistic plot. Basically, you cannot help but wonder why
everything happens the way it's portrayed because most of the scenes in
the movie make no sense at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I endured watching this film just so i can get a good laugh. It has no
story, everything happens in a random way, the plot is almost
inexistent.

The thing that is hard to believe is that Bruce Willis is in this
movie. It has a 5 minute role in total so you can imagine that they
used his image just to make this movie interesting, but after 15
minutes of watching you will realize that its a very poor movie.

If you are in the mood of laughing and making fun and you are with
friends, i recommend it, there is a lot to mock in the movie.

I never wrote a review before, but this movie made me do this.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so I didn't have particularly high expectations for this, and I'm
not going to bother emphasising Curtis Jackson's flat performance,
since it's likely you've seen how "expressive" this guy is in
everything else he's ever done, as it is, if I know he's in a movie, I
already have a pretty good clue that he won't be the highlight.

So what else have we got? Ryan Phillippe, and Bruce Willis... OK, Bruce
pulls out a reasonable performance, but he really doesn't have much to
work with, due to a muddled, thin script.

So of course the same difficulties apply to Ryan Phillippe, however,
since he has a much larger part in this it's difficult to see that his
performance is OK, and really he's let down by the poor script.

Well, look, Curtis Jackson, I'm not sure why this guy wants to be an
actor, for the moment he'll have to keep wanting, because he hasn't
pulled anything out the sack with this one. It's not that his
performance is dreadful, it's just ... empty, and he really isn't
bringing any soul to his character, and I've got to say, I really hope
he gets better than this, because I know he's going to keep trying.

Anyway, if you watch this, brush the sick off yourself and go watch Way
of the Gun so you can forgive Ryan Phillippe.

In summary even casting a lead that could act probably wouldn't have
save this shoddy script, but there's a few good moments that will
entertain.
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing it had a good cast I thought this could be a good film, wrong!
It's just a over hyped B grader by using a few big name actors, sure
Ryan Phillippe is in it here and there but Bruce Willis is in it only
for the name, as he is in this film for around 20 minutes, Bruce is
only in it to prop up this film. 50 cents is just not credible as an
actor, and Bruce and Ryan can't help him raise the bar past the level
of B grade.

The story is nothing new, it's predictable and plain boring, and that
music score! they are really trying to make this sound like a serious
crime drama, but they failed, it just proves again it takes more then
well know actors to make a good film.

Would I recommend this film? yeah sure if I did not like you! give it a
miss, walk your dog instead, wash your car, ring your mum! as this film
is not worth wasting your time on.

Solid 1 out of 10, it would have been a zero but I did love that GTO,
the main high light of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Desperately bad acting, paralleled only by the plot (or lack thereof).

The movie was totally disjointed, and was completely devoid of anything
that would grab the attention of any audience with an IQ greater the
date of the month on which they were unfortunate enough to be subjected
to this, for want of a better or more appropriate phrase, B-Movie.

I rarely comment on movies, but this is possibly the worst movie I've
ever had the misfortune of sharing the same room as, far less,
watching.

As much as I'd like to blame the writer, it's impossible to lay the
blame at the door of any single person. As far as I can see, everyone
involved in the making of this movie is equally to blame, and as a
foot-note, it's sad to see that Bruce Willis never matured into a
decent actor...
<|_=00=_|>
Barely interesting since this scenario already have been used thousand
times. A heist, then betrayal (a necessary twist, without it the
storyline simply wouldn't take off), then the guy who was betrayed and
gun down miraculously survived, then seeking revenge, then the party
that has been robbed sending out pros to seek out the robbers....then
another 3rd party suddenly budged in, then things getting complicated
(this we usually call a twist in the plot), then blah, blah, and blah.
You know it and I know it where this story would end, you don't need me
to show the direction, do you? The performance of Bruce Willis is so
1-dimensional stereotyped without any feeling like watching a dead fish
pretends to be a human being. His acting is so pretentious with limited
emotions and passions, without even trying to break some new ground for
his later day acting transcendence or enhancement. There are more
better senior actors to play this role but the casting agency seemed
still believe this guy got some box office attraction. Believe you me,
dude, he's not, because he can only play the same dead fish like
character in different titled movies.

The other two young actors indeed tried very hard to play the roles but
since the screenplay is so formulaic and so predictable, they are just
two very uninteresting characters in a very boring predictable movie.
The only thing that needs to be recommended to these two younger actors
is that they have shown been working out daily, so the long chase in
the busy business area didn't show any fatigue or heavy breaths in the
end. Obviously, the chase have been shot and edited together scene by
scene, so they could still look so tireless.

This is a very predictable and very forgettable old movie with a new
title and different actors. Did you ever try to drink a lukewarm water?
