
If your idea of funny is excessive unnecessary profanity (it seems
almost every line in the film contains it) inserted instead of actual
humor, uninspired sex jokes, gross images with no pay off, and lame
satire, then you may enjoy Sausage Party.

Allegedly, the inspiration for making this movie was the creators'
desire to make the first "adult" 3D animated film. The interpretation
of "adult" here seems to be the same as when it's used to describe
porn--in other words, "adult" in the sense that you wouldn't want
children to watch it but not in the sense that it shows much
sophistication.

I have nothing against gross or low humor. But that's just it. There
aren't really any jokes in this movie. Punchlines here are usually
someone dropping an f-bomb. If you are not 11 years old, you may want
something more. Visual gags are sometimes interesting, but do not
induce laughter. The animation is well done and there are many
celebrity voices involved, all of whom act well, but to what end?

Anyone familiar with the sort of movies Seth Rogen ends up in (toilet,
sex, and drug humor) then you will have a fair idea of how this pans
out. There are characters taking drugs and talking about "getting
baked." HA! HA! Items from the grocery store make crude remarks and
simulate sex acts. HA! HA! Many of the characterizations simply involve
people yelling a lot. HA! HA! There's brutal violence. HA! HA!

News emerging since the opening suggests that the artists working on
this project were treated cruelly and unfairly. That's how I felt as an
audience member.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is the equivalent to a sixteen year old, fairly privileged
middle class boy, who has a baseball cap, curtains and t-shirt with the
marijuana leaf on it yet has only ever smoked one spliff and made a
huge deal about it. He thinks that smoking weed makes him relevant. So
he needs to let everyone know he does it because there's nothing else
that will appeal about him. Because he doesn't want to come off as a
nerd, he lowers his intelligence and because he is too 'dumb' to
actually be funny, he swears every 10 seconds to constitute humour.
Possibly still faps over that one single poster of a tanned girl in a
bikini that his Uncle bought him on his birthday because he was
'becoming a man, bro.'

It was described to my boyfriend as 'offensive'. It wasn't. It's
vulgar. It's not even the funny kind.

I watched it last night with my boyfriend. Only us and a group of three
'lads' were in the cinema. Understand, we all laughed more during the
adverts and trailers than we did the actual movie.

Within the first five minutes, I was embarrassed that I subjected my
boyfriend and I to this and knew it was going to disappoint me.

Immediately, you're met with profanity. Now, once or twice to give the
impression that hot dogs swear is fine. Swearing so much to substitute
for lack of humour is just pathetic. Amidst the language, nothing funny
was said. That's bad writing.

There's the joke that hot dogs are having sex with buns when they're
put into the buns. That makes sense as a joke. It's a safe bet. This
would have been modestly funny had it not been repeated throughout the
whole film.

Yes, we get it. The sausage is a phallic shape and goes into a bun.

It really puts it to you within the first few minutes. A pack of
sausages shaming each other about their size and shape. (BECAUSE THEY
ARE METAPHORICAL PENISES DON'T YOU KNOW! HAR HAR!) Again though, not
funny or clever. Then courting the lady-buns by being vulgar. Sausage
calls bun a b***h.

It was clear that I'd sat us down for an uninspired and lazy flop.

I laughed modestly twice. I laughed out of obligation and embarrassment
about 5 times.

There were a few clever bits. I am a fan of wordplay, so to see someone
riding a bottle of 'Horseradish Sauce' was satisfying. The Frankfurters
were played as Nazis who hated 'Juice' and their symbol was 'ff', made
to look the Nazi alternative. Offensive, yes, but a little clever. I
like offensive humour.

There were so many opportunities for actual humour it hurts. Nothing
that could have been funny was displayed for more than a second.

There was a graphic rape scene.

I get that it sounds ridiculous when you hear that it's a douche
forcefully sucking the juice out of a carton.

You might think I am being silly, but I swear to you, if it had been
humans, it would have been pretty horrific.

Because it was a cartoon, you were expected to laugh at rape.

Ha ha. No. I don't think any of the viewers found that funny, even the
'laddish' blokes at the back didn't crack a humoured grin.

There's also this really awkward sex scene at the end where all the
food engage. This is to really bring home the hot-dog/penis metaphor.

A taco has lesbian sex with a bread roll.

My fingers hurt from typing.

If you're 12 years old and completely new to sex, drugs and swearwords,
you and your dude-bros will love this.

If you require a little more maturity and intelligence in your humour,
AVOID. Otherwise you'll leave needing to take a shower and needing to
withdraw from cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
If could give it a 0/10 I would.

I'm not going to cry p.c. nonsense about the crude humour, I like crude
humour, but in spades, this film was just a continuous attempt at badly
executed shock value (food orgy) with absolutely no real story wrapped
around it, they find out the world is "evil", kill the store staff, but
never question the giant plot holes involved, such as:

If it is a film about talking food, how come a toilet roll and a douche
can talk, but no other inanimate objects can't talk? Among other logic
defying questions.

It reached a point where at the end they ran out of ideas and decided
to build a StarGate to find the actors who voice them in real life for
some reason or another, at that point I had checked out completely.

To conclude, it's too adult for kids, yet too stupid for adults.

Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly didn't think I'd like this movie nearly as much as I
actually do. I went in essentially expecting a typical Seth Rogan
comedy, just random jokes and nothing else. But the rumors were true,
it actually is more clever than it has any right to be.

I'll first say this, I don't think everyone will find it funny. If you
aren't already a fan of Seth Rogan's movies, like I am, the humor
probably won't do much for you. But I don't think anyone can deny that
the movie's story is very smart, and I think might make up for some of
the negatives you may have about the movie. The early reviews were
right, it has a lot of clever things to say about religion, about
taboos in society, about bigotry between cultures, and it's not lazy
about any of these subjects.

Let me talk about the jokes for a second. Yes there are plenty of
sexual jokes in it, a lot of which I found funny. But I think the
majority of the laughs I had came from the different ethnic foods
interacting with each other. I could watch the Bagel and Lavash argue
with each other all day. If anything I think the majority of the sort
of sexual jokes people expect from the movie happen at the very end,
like the last 10 minutes of the movie.

The voice acting is also top notch. All the voices fit well with every
character in the movie. I would love to see all of the actors in this
in other animated roles. Some of the actors play there roles so well I
had no idea which character they were. I had no idea that Edward Norton
was the Bagel, or that Paul Rudd was the main Grocery Store employee.
They all give great performances.

But don't get me wrong, there are problems. Probably the major one
being that the villain really doesn't need to be there. He just kind of
serves to be a slightly disturbing character, who sucks out other
products' juice to become stronger. If they cut him out of the movie we
wouldn't have missed anything, apart from a few jokes from him. Also
the ending is very, well, an ending, in that it ends the movie. It's
one of those endings I wouldn't really describe as "bad" or "good" it's
just sort of "I don't really know how else they could have ended it, so
yeah I guess that works."

The animation isn't all that great either, I mean it's not awful, but
it really shows that this is this particular company's first animated
film. One thing in particular that put me off was the designs on the
human characters, they're so hideous to look at. I have a feeling
that's part of the joke, but they really do look gross, and
off-putting.

There is one more thing I have to say though. In the long run I'm a
little worried about the impact this might have on other R rated
animated movies. I'm a little worried that this might affect other
movies in a similar fashion as how Shrek affected kids movies. Like how
Shrek was funny and made a lot of money, so other studios, and
Dreamworks themselves, tried to replicate the success, and we ended up
getting really bad "Self-Aware Parody" movies like Chicken Little. I
just don't want the same thing to happen with this movie.

I wouldn't call this movie "typical Adult Swim fodder" like I thought
I'd be calling it. It's too clever to deserve that label. It's a movie
that actually understands what "Satire" is, and in a day and age where
we have people just posting racial obscenities and calling it "satire"
when called out on it, I think it's great to see an R rated animated
movie actually understand how to do satire.

I would recommend giving this movie a chance. I really respect that it
doesn't just throw crap at the wall and expects you to laugh. I
wouldn't go as far as to call this one of my favorite animated movies
of all time, but I will say I'm glad I saw it, and I had a lot of fun
watching it. I would give this movie an 8/10. It's not one of the
greatest movies ever made, but I do respect it, and I want to see more
good R rated animated movies come out of it.
<|_=00=_|>
So this is the animated movie that came out of nowhere and got a bunch
of people of talking all because of it's trailer. Let me tell you right
now, the red-band trailer for this movie is funnier than the movie
itself. And the whole reason the trailer made me laugh was because at
first it looks like a regular animated movie, then the swearing and sex
jokes happen. Speaking of which, this movie is nothing but swearing and
sex jokes, oh and stereotypes. Because writing personalities for
animated characters is so difficult, almost every character is just a
walking stereotype. The bagel's Jewish, the lavash is Muslim, the
sauerkraut is a Nazi, are you laughing yet?!? That is the extent of
this movies "humor", it is literally just that. So if you think
swearing and sex jokes is the pinnacle of comedy, then this'll be the
funniest movie you've ever seen. However, if you're above the age of
14, then this movie will just exist, exist and not be funny in the
slightest. This movie only made me chuckle twice, I laughed more during
"The Theory of Everything", and I'm pretty sure that movie wasn't a
freakin' comedy!!! This is without a doubt the worst animated movie
I've seen, and it's a shame that actors like Edward Norton had to be in
it. I can't wait for the eventual sequel where all the food comes to
the real world and interacts with their voice actors, won't that be
hilarious?! Does anybody else think that the makers of this movie paid
off top critics to give this positive reviews? Because I honestly can't
understand why anyone who's old enough to see an R-rated movie would
find this funny at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I start this review I'm telling you that I generally love Seth
Rogan's sense of humour and all of the actors that were voicing the
characters I love as well, but this movie made me cringe. The entire
plot of the movie sounded great and watching the trailers definitely
caught everyone's attention, and it's not that often that an adult
animation comes out and gets that much hype. It had a really good
unique idea. The voice acting and animations were done really well.
That's about where the positivity ends.

The first time I tried to watch it with my boyfriend, and we shut it
off after the "rape scene" with the douche and the juice box about 15
minutes or so into the movie. I mean, I can get how it can kind of be
comical because I mean, it's a douche and a juice box, but just the
fact that they were trying to compare it to rape was a bit screwed up
and made me uncomfortable.

The second time I tried to watch it was with one of my friends who
swore it was hilarious and we just had to watch it so I was forced to
watch it and finish it. The entire time she was laughing at every
stupid and lazy attempt they made at humour and I was sitting there
straight-faced wishing it was over.

I have a pretty good sense of humour but the constant sexual jokes in
this movie weren't even clever at all and they were pretty pathetic..
the kind of twelve year old boys make when they try to make everything
sound sexual. I was happy when I thought movie had finally come to an
end when suddenly all the food randomly started having this massive
orgy which was another 5 minutes of pointless ridiculousness.

Honestly, this had a good idea but just turned out to be complete
trash, and not the funny kind. It was just pathetic and sad that people
wasted so much time and money to create it. If you have this certain
sense of humour that finds absolutely everything funny, you'd probably
laugh a few times. If you're like me where it takes more than some weak
sexual innuendos and over-the-top deaths to make you laugh then please
do yourself a favour and skip this one. Everyone I know that has seen
this (except that one friend) hated it.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off this review by saying I like Seth Rogen. I like
low-brow, shock humor. I love biting satire. By all metrics, I
should've been the target audience for this film. But I couldn't
remember the last time a movie actually made me as angry as I felt
watching Sausage Party.

Look, I *get* what this movie was trying to do. Really, I do. Its
admirable ambition is the ONLY reason I give it a 3/10 and not a 1. But
it fails in every place it was trying to succeed. Let me explain.

1. It fails as a send-up of saccharine Pixar animated films. Parody
really is an art form of its own. To do it well, the medium needs to
look and feel - at first blush - like something sincere, which allows
the artist to invert expectations of the audience (thus, humor). Just
look at the best satire: The Onion takes on the tone of a daily
newspaper; Young Frankenstein feels like a classic horror film; Weird
Al Yankovic sounds like the musicians he parodies. Parody requires a
nuanced and keen understanding of whatever source material it's
sending-up.

Sausage Party seems to think it's a Pixar parody because it a) uses
inanimate objects as characters, and b) is animated. But that's not
what makes Pixar movies Pixar movies. They have emotion, they have
clever characters, and they make unexpected and subtle observations on
humanity.

The closest Sausage Party came to giving us Pixar-inspired characters
were the queer taco and the Stephen Hawking-esque piece of chewed up
gum, and neither is on screen long enough to carry the film. The rest
of the "parody" is dependent on the fact that animation as a medium is
most commonly used for children's entertainment, and Sausage Party
clearly isn't for children. If that's parody, then it's parody in its
laziest, most artificial form.

2. It fails as shock humor. I get that this is subjective and everyone
has their own meter for "what is shocking," but I'm going to go out on
a limb and say no one over the age of 11 thinks cartoon characters
being vulgar is shocking. South Park busted down that barrier two
decades ago. Adult Swim has been around for almost as long. In a world
of Borat, 4chan, and There's Something About Mary, if you want to go
for pure shock laughs, you need a lot more than f-bombs and sex puns.

That being said, for shock humor to actually be, well, shocking, it
needs to come as a surprise. If the entire film beats you over the head
with profanity, drug references, and wiener jokes, then it by
definition can't be shocking. It simply becomes tedium.

3. It fails as commentary on organized religion. This was probably the
most disappointing failure because the idea that humans are gods over
food and food has to tell themselves the gods are bringing them to a
"great beyond" to give their lives meaning is indeed a clever concept.
There was an opportunity for Rogen n Co to make an anti- Veggie Tales
that could've been something sharp and brilliant. But it just so poorly
done.

Matt Stone and Trey Parker did the anti-belief message beautifully in
The Book of Mormon. In it, the characters grow to question their faith,
and their new-found skepticism pays off with a unique and clever spin
at the end (with lots of smart laughs along the way).

In Sausage Party, on the other hand, instead of using religious
skepticism as a vehicle for character development, it was more the bow
that tied a bunch of juvenile jokes to some pseudo-intelligent theme.
There was no organic transformation. It was a forced conclusion to
justify ending on an orgy (because ultimately nothing really matters
and all we have is joy and pleasure in this life yadda yadda ya get
it?! GET IT?!?)

The fact Sausage Party had such potential makes the results all the
more annoying. In more skilled hands it really could've been a fun,
acerbic send-up of Pixar AND religion. Instead, what we have is an
over-long, single-joke animated SNL skit with all the charm and
brilliance of a jackhammer. Painful.
<|_=00=_|>
It was good until the orgy. No, seriously. It ends very poorly. Very
badly.

Weird. Just. Weird. I think I would have enjoyed the movie a whole lot
more if it weren't for the end. Also, Seth Rogan in another movie where
he's a stoner. Shocking.
<|_=00=_|>
Interesting concept - the entirety of the interesting part can be seen
in the trailers. Save yourself both the money and an hour and a half of
your life.

Once you get past the shock novelty of food talking and being
ridiculously raunchy the movie becomes pathetic, repetitive and dull.

Bottom line- Should have been a 5 minute cartoon. Beyond that it is
really just a raunchy, garbage philosophy, amorality play - A vehicle
for the usual nihilistic liberal memes involving sexuality, romanticism
of hard drugs and atheism. I could forgive the vacuous leftist part if
the movie were genuinely creative and funny. It isn't. It is an Utterly
stupid, vacuous waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the thing about propaganda films. If they are bad when
Christians do it (God's Not Dead 1&2, Kirk Cameron Saves Christmas)
they are not going to be better when atheists do it. That's what it
felt like watching this movie. Sausage Party is the God's Not Dead of
an atheist propaganda movie. You are preached at for the entire run
time on why it's bad to believe in a religion, while having to sit
through painfully obvious jokes that don't land. (Oh the douche is a
douche. Hahaha creative) Now before I'm accused of being some whack job
fundamentalist let me say that I hate the other propaganda films. If I
want to watch propaganda I'll go to the source and watch it. Sausage
party is even worse because the trailer doesn't show how preachy it
actually is.

It's sad too because the cast is super talented too. (Kroll, Whig,
Cera, Rogan, Hayak) which means that the fault lies solely on the
writing which comes off more as a summer camp sketch than a movie. It
relies way too heavily on recycled racist tropes that were done better
in a 50s Looney Tunes cartoon. That mixed with just yawn worthy sexual
innuendo makes the film unbearable and leaves you praying that the film
ends soon. Which is ironic because that's the opposite of what the film
wants you to do.
