
I saw the trailers for this, thought it looked funny and i like Stiller
so gave it a whirl. What a mistake! This is not the comedy the trailers
made it out to be, they show the best bits and when it came to watching
the whole film it fell flat. This film was trying to be an intellectual
dark comedy, maybe in the vein of Woody Allen but lacked the style,
sophistication and plot. The mid life crisis thing, done many times
before but better, the role reversal with the oldies doing the social
media thing and the younger couple living like hippie bohemians felt
like an attempt to be clever but just didn't feel real. The whole moral
conscience thing Stiller had was muddled because of the way the plot
didn't really make out that anyone had done anything very much wrong.
This was deliberate but made the whole morality issue just too subtle
for the audience to care. At the end i couldn't care less whether they
had a baby together or not and found it all very irritating. I know it
was supposed to be allegorical and therefore clever but to me at least
it was just badly done and a bit pretentious.
<|_=00=_|>
Noah Baumbach's film concerning a documentary filmmaker and his wife
who have lost their friends to the baby track is disappointing. The
couple, Ben Stiller and Naomi Watts, meet up with a younger couple
played by Adam Driver and Amanda Seyfried, re-spark their lives but
questions creep in about what the younger couple is really after, and
what is the right path in life.

To be honest the film is enjoyable on its own terms. It has laughs and
is occasionally strangely moving. 

The problem with the film is that the terms of the film are kind of
messed up. The film has a big subtext concerning honesty in documentary
films and a quest by Stiller's character to uncover what the Adam
Driver character is doing- the problem is the film subverts it and
throws it aside in the final minutes. The collapse begins when the
Charles Grodin character, a respected documentary filmmaker makes a
speech about integrity and then two minutes later says that everything
he had just said (and said pretty much in the film up to that point)
doesn't matter. Its a wtf moment that had myself and more than a few
people in the audience at The New York Film Festival scratching our
heads. The film's the collapse is kind of complete at the end of the
film which is a kind of out of left field turn for the Watts and
Stiller character. The ending kind of throws numerous plot lines aside
and is a feel good moment that feels contrived.

When the film ended I was left confused. What was Baumbach going for?

After the NYFF screening someone in the audience asked Baumbach the
questions I wanted to. He said that all that mattered was the final bit
of the film. That was what he was going for and everything he was doing
was for that. He also added that we shouldn't have paid any attention
to the integrity/making a documentary stuff since he only put it in so
that the Stiller character had something to do. We weren't suppose to
have paid attention to that since that isn't what the film was about.

Really?

Without that the film really isn't about anything. Without it the film
doesn't have a reason to be seen.

Truthfully I don't hate the film, I hate its construction. The film has
moments and characters but its as morally bankrupt as the Adam Driver
character.

A disappointing film
<|_=00=_|>
Getting older is an odd business. We know it happens to us, every day,
every month, every year. And yet, it also sneaks up on us. Suddenly,
we're the oldest people in the room, with the most out-of-date
vocabulary, squinting and fussing when once we used to laugh and shrug
it all off. Our zest for life is rapidly depleting, and time is running
out. Writer-director Noah Baumbach's While We're Young is a wise, witty
look at a couple caught in between generations - they're middle- aged,
by any and all measures, but are still young enough to hear the siren
call of reckless adventure and self-exploration. It's a shame that
Baumbach's film winds up making a far less successful segue into the
realm of a psychological semi-thriller.

Filmmaker Josh (Ben Stiller) has been in a state of arrested
development for years. As his friends settle down with babies and
careers, he's been making the same dense, complicated documentary for
close to a decade, whilst his happy marriage to Cornelia (Naomi Watts)
remains in the same gear as it has for ages. But Josh gains a new lease
on life when he meets Jamie (Adam Driver) and his wife Darby (Amanda
Seyfried), a free-spirited pair of twenty-something-year-olds who still
sparkle with the possibilities of life, hope and renewal.

While We're Young is at its best when it makes thoughtful, sharp
observations about aging. In the first half of the film, Josh rushes to
keep up with his new young friends, dragging Cornelia along for the
ride. Suddenly, they're shaken out of the rut of their lives, wearing
jaunty hats, participating in mass spiritual retreats, and forcing
their less flexible bodies into hip-hop classes. Baumbach skilfully
juxtaposes this with Josh and Cornelia's increasing disenchantment with
their old friends, Marina (Maria Dizzia) and Fletcher (Adam Horovitz),
who are caught up in a frenzy of new baby worship. Baumbach's insights
are nestled within his scenes and characters - tiny lines or moments
will strike home for anyone who's felt out of place for age-related
reasons.

What works less well is the moody semi-thriller (possibly titled Not
Quite Single White Male) that Baumbach tries to graft onto his comedy
about life and aging. It plays very well at first, as Jamie reveals
himself to be - just like Josh - a documentarian, and one who - unlike
Josh - seems to have everything work out perfectly at every step of the
filmmaking process. It's a nice contrast, because it prompts Josh to
keep questioning himself about whether he has, after all, squandered
away his youth on something that was never meant to be.

However, Jamie's relationship with Josh takes on a more sinister tone
as the film progresses. His intentions are called into question, with
the shortcuts he takes and the friends he makes bordering on the
questionable. It's good character work, to be sure, but ends up
confusing rather than deepening the overall narrative. By the time Josh
barrels toward an awkward showdown with Jamie, Baumbach seems to have
forgotten the point he was making with the film in the first place.

Nonetheless, the film is a worthy vehicle for Stiller and Watts to
really dig into their characters and relationship. It's nice to see
Stiller really embrace a darker, deeper role that's not quite in his
wheelhouse. He pulls it off very well indeed, lending great weight and
an unexpected vulnerability to Josh's insecurities. Watts, too,
relishes the part of Cornelia, one of the best-written roles in recent
memory for a woman in her forties. The film may ultimately belong to
Josh, but Watts' Cornelia isn't merely set dressing meant to evoke a
life. She's a full-fledged person in her own right, tough and tender,
with her own personal heartbreaks that make her the person we see in
the film.

You wouldn't think it, given their wildly divergent career paths to
date, but Stiller and Watts also share plenty of chemistry. He may be
better known for comedy and she for drama, but it's evident here that
they can each handle both with plenty of intelligence and polish. It's
a delight, therefore, to watch them navigate the tapestry of their
relationship, as Josh - fired by jealousy and paranoia - starts
worrying at threads of it such that it begins to unravel before
Cornelia's eyes. And yet, the fact that these two characters truly love
and respect each other through it all is never in doubt.

Although While We're Young may not completely come together as a
coherent whole, that doesn't detract from the quiet wonders of this
smart, whimsical, bitingly real film. It's a pleasure to spend time
with characters this real and rounded, to recognise in them the abandon
of youth and the relative stability of age. In his offbeat way,
Baumbach is warning us that trade-offs between the two may be less
rigid than we have been taught to expect. Like the film itself, it's a
welcome insight, one that's filled with both hope and maturity.
<|_=00=_|>
It feels as if we're back in "Greenburg" territory with "While We're
Young" made four years later, since we have the same writer and
director (Noah Baumbach) and the same lead actor (Ben Stiller) playing
a similar central character. This time, Stiller is Josh, married to
Cornelia (Naomi Watts), a middle-aged married couple who find
themselves hooking up with Jamie (Adam Driver) and Darby (Amanda
Seyfried), a couple in their twenties, who remind the older pair of the
freshness and spontaneity of youth while he struggles professionally
and she laments their inability to become parents.

The female roles are underwritten and, while Driver is good, this is
really Stiller's film. The trouble is that he is such an irritating
character, unable to complete a long-running project to produce a
boring documentary and foolishly trying to recapture his lost youth.
There are some funny scenes and situations, but this is an uneven work
with a sequence at a hippy retreat proving particularly silly.
<|_=00=_|>
5/10 might not seem like a good rating, but it's a strong 5. This movie
is definitely worth seeing, but only if you're okay with mild
disappointments and outdated "we can't be happy without having kids"
Disney-like thinking.

Movie does indeed have a good start - Ben Stiller & Naomi Watts play
their roles well and make lots of good points of how we can sometimes
be unhappy with our past decisions and our lives. Movie also captures
well how people change when they grow up; one ends up having kids,
another focuses on his/her career or other things.

Sadly "While We're Young" doesn't grasp all that there could've been.
The ending leaves you kinda sad/disappointed/with mixed feelings. To
put it plainly; it doesn't deliver.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film you always feel could be good and should be good by
ultimately disappoints. 

There are two main plot lines running through the movie. 

1) - 40 somethings getting older reaching an inflection point in their
lives. To baby or not to baby, to relive youth or not to relive youth
whilst they in theory still can and the relationships along the way.

2 - A plot line about the production of films by the two main male
characters, Josh (stiler) and Jamie (driver).

The first of the two plot line is engaging and sometime funny,
relatable and has potential. 

The second plot line is utterly banal, pointless, emotionless and does
not for one second make you care what happens to the outcome or really
worthy of any air time. 

This is the film's major flaw. There is not real direction to the
movie, there is no real engagement and thrust. If anything the plot
line about the film undoes all of the good work that the 40 something
conundrum attempts to do.
<|_=00=_|>
When you are above 35 you kinda look forward to seeing something that
might challenge the way everything has already been presented to you
repeatedly. It doesn't even have to be revolutionary. But with this
film you realise you have just sat through another movie where you got
served everything just as before. The mundane couple who have just had
a child, acting bewildered in the presence of people "of a certain age"
that don't. Josh and Cornelia defending their childless state, and for
a second you think hm...where could this go..Nowhere interesting as it
turns out. Just like most other mainstream films they do not have kids
as a result of a traumatic physical problem - and not because they have
chosen to (but we can all breathe a sigh of relief, they succumb in the
end). So nothing new here. Cornelias hip hop class, Josh getting a
"crazy"hat, all from hanging out with people in their mid 20s...and the
slight awkwardness they display around them, sigh...how many times do
we have to sit through age difference being spelled out in the same
way? It is almost like every age group have to identify with these
stereotypical differences ....and if you don't...then I just don't know
(".") jeez. I am sure there was a message in the film but the
mediocrity unfortunately drowned out everything else.
<|_=00=_|>
While We're Young is primarily about a middle-aged couple that meets a
younger couple and becomes infectiously addicted to their lifestyle. It
is also a commentary on the implied truthfulness of documentaries, the
gap of generational habits, changing social protocols and many more
topics that I probably missed. This is a very difficult film to review.
There is a reason that I wait a day or two after seeing a movie before
writing a review on it and movies like this are why. It is necessary to
let the small details sink in and to digest them for a while before
spitting out an opinion. First of all, the characters are well written
and feel like real people. They are flawed and yet somewhat likable.
Their problems are real and their reactions to these problems are
realistic, too. It is very easy to relate to the problems that the
older couple goes through because they are problems that most people
have gone through or will go through at some point in their lives. The
story starts off well enough and the mingling of these couples is
interesting to watch but the biggest problem with the film is its
organization of the events that follow. Events just happen in a
seemingly random order and the importance of these events is
questionable at best. There are enough ideas in this film to fill two
or three others; but the problem with that is that there is little
focus. The focus changes so often that I am often bored by seemingly
random and filler dialogue before I realize that this dialogue is
important to some commentary about the human condition that doesn't
need to be in the film and had nothing to do with the previous focal
points. There is a point in the movie were a character critiques a film
by saying that it was boring, too long, and that there were lots of
topics that, while interesting, did not need to be there. That is my
exact opinion of While We're Young. It is true that there are many
interesting arcs that go into the plot. The issue is that there is no
overarching one that carries the audience through them. Calling them
arcs might be misleading. Most are more like slopes that just go up and
end without resolution and those that do come down and resolve do so
unsatisfyingly. The depictions of the younger generation (typically
hipsters) are so over-exaggerated that it can take you out of it. While
this film claims to be a comedy, it isn't very funny. I chuckled more
at the over-the-top oddness of the hipsters than I did at any joke.
There is a ten minute scene full of people tripping on hallucinogens
and puking in trashcans that tried to be funny, but just came off as
uncomfortable and disgusting. The film has many good ideas, very few,
if any, are fully realized or properly presented. However, to keep a
clean conscious, I cannot give this movie an absolutely terrible rating
because it tried to bring up topics that are somewhat tabooed by modern
society and did spawn a couple heated debates and conversations
afterward. A movie that tried to do something new and failed is more
honorable than a film that tried something generic and failed.
<|_=00=_|>
While We're Young is mainly about comparing between two current
generations. A typical comedy would normally make it a silly opposition
about which one is better, but the movie doesn't make that as a
conflict at all. The movie is more concerned on how its main characters
acknowledge that they're at the point of a mid-life and finding a way
ignore that by interacting a younger crowd. It's simply engaging stuff,
almost devoid from the common comedy movie formula until the third act
went through some climax that feels different from its more sincere
setup, but even with that conventional turn, the film continues to be
clever and sticks to its whole theme.

It starts with the childless main couple beginning to realize their age
and almost makes a big deal about it until they discover how youth
today actually live their lives after befriending with a younger couple
and try to exchange each other's medium and lifestyle from the time
they grew up with. The most typical way to treat this idea is to aim
their new behavior for laughs or go against the other generation, but
the movie rather takes it simple by just having them tag along with
both of their interests. It may not be too sensational, but it gives a
pleasantly charming feel within those interactions. There is still a
sense of division between the generations, like how their peers
couldn't relate to their new appeal. It kind of jokes about how odd
cultures have gone, but the movie doesn't want to be too critical about
it either and remains understanding both sides, anyway.

There is also a side story that involves their work as filmmakers of
documentary and the movie still explores its main idea by showing how
even the ethics of their industry have changed. And this leads to a
third act that often exists in generic comedies, but the movie doesn't
take those sequences as a punchline. Though, most of that part feels
like it's shifting into a whole new topic, but as it turns out, it
actually tries to build up a more reasonable contrast between the
perspectives of the young and the old. When you think it's going to be
in a clichéd direction, it's the writing that keeps things authentic.
The acting are thoroughly natural on what they do. Ben Stiller and
Naomi Watts are as likable as always, while Adam Driver and Amanda
Seyfried bring the charm in their characters.

While We're Young is pretty likable, even when it leads to a weirdly
contrived conclusion, but either way, it still works, thanks to its
genuinely charming performances and smart writing that has the right
intention. The characters are rather fascinated at these hobbies and
things that are popular from each other's generations, than making it a
serious competition for themselves. But it still concerns at a person's
mindsets and change of attitude due to age, which somehow becomes the
actual conflict of the story. In the end, it finds a good heart anyway,
and it's quite interesting to just see the distinction, but also the
similar appeal between these featured generations.
<|_=00=_|>
So I get what the film was aiming for, but I've gotta say, I'm
incredibly shocked by its critical reception. I don't think it's "bad",
really, but just thoroughly mediocre and really obnoxious. I don't know
why, but something about it came off so incredibly forced and fake. It
has some good acting and none of it is offensive or anything, but
something about it annoyed me in a way I can't really pinpoint. I love
Naomi Watts, but she was part of the problem. There just wasn't any
synchrony between the performers I don't think. Either that or between
their performances and the tone the film was aiming for. I'm perplexed
because none of it I can really put my finger on, except that there is
absolutely nothing of real note or anything that will be memorable even
a day after watching it (well, that's not true, since I saw it a day
ago). Not worth it
