
After watching "Bridesmaids" earlier this year, I was actually quite
surprised to see a film that I usually would have flagged as a "chick
flick" make me laugh and leave the theatre thinking I just watched an
overall quality comedy. I always found that Hollywood liked keeping
this stereotypical division between these "raunchy guy comedies" and
"corny chick flicks".

The one point I'm trying to make here is that, usually, raunchy
comedies feature male characters as the leads, and the female
characters usually either serve as the opposing party to typical
stories of bromance, or as the "background bimbos". But, after a while,
as in any movie sub-genre or trend, clichés keep coming back again and
again, the same faces play the same roles in movies that are basically
carbon copies of one another, and, quite simply, it gets a tad old and
the competent releases among that sub-genre become a rarity.

But what if these old clichés could be completely rejuvenated if the
mold was turned upside down, and female characters became the leads?
Well, trust me, this film is no corny romantic comedy, the clichés one
would expect to see in a chick flick are absolutely nowhere to be
found. Think of a cross between "American Pie" and "Superbad", with
even dirtier dialogue, morals, and situations...with female characters
as the leads.

The film starts with quite a crafty opening credits sequence, which
quickly lets you know that you're being brought back to the early
nineties (1993 to be exact). And, throughout the film, this nineties
feeling is very well kept alive, with the sets, the costumes, and such.
Good job on that.

One could argue that every character is super stereotyped. That is
absolutely true. And that's probably the biggest trick that "The To Do
List" is able to pull off : The situations through which the characters
go embrace their stereotypical nature while constantly pushing both the
limits of good taste/morals and of what you've previously seen in
similar movies. "The To Do List" is not trying to reinvent the wheel.
No. But it's definitely trying to push the limits in many regards.
Where "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" got a bit sanctimonious at times, this
film ends up stating that sex can just be a casual thing and should be
enjoyed as exactly that. Where "Superbad" pulled its punches when it
came to teenagers experimenting, "The To Do List" unleashed a flurry of
hay makers.

And I'm not taking anything away from these two movies, I loved them
both. All I am saying is, "The To Do List" qualifies amongst even the
cruder comedies, and surpasses them several times in that department.

That's not the only trick it has up its sleeve though. Narrative
structure is clever, with check-boxes appearing every time one of the
"tasks" is accomplished. The dialogue is top-notch and constantly drew
major laughter from the crowd. The cast is impressive, and features a
couple of uproarious cameos.

"The To Do List" is quality entertainment that does deserve its heavy R
rating. In the same vein as "American Pie", "Superbad", and "The
40-Year-Old Virgin", this film definitely doesn't bring anything
properly new, but it does innovate by reversing the mold and putting
female characters as the leads. To think the result would be toned down
because of that single detail would be foolish, and just like
"Bridesmaids" did, "The To Do List" reminds us of that. To be quite
honest, I found it kind of refreshing. Add competent direction, a solid
cast, and neat dialogue, and you've got a good comedy that's definitely
not for kids, but that both men and women will find hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the reason so many people disliked this flick was because they
went in with the wrong expectations. You hear about a teen sex comedy
staring women and immediately people assume something more
sophisticated and classy would be the by product. 

This is not that movie.

This film is both dry and ludicrous, crass and hilarious. 

Aubrey Plaza's one note characters fit this movie well.

What I liked most about the flick was that it finally gave a voice to
the sexually confused teenage GIRL population. The movie was written
and directed by a woman, and it's pretty clear when you're watching.

TL;DR:

It's not an Oscar winner, but it's funny. It's a very progressive movie
in the sense that it reverses the normal teen comedy gender stereotypes
and gives the audience an unfiltered and unashamed (however hyperbolic)
look at female sexuality, insecurities and intricacies.

NOT FOR KIDS.
<|_=00=_|>
"The To-Do List" is an entirely raunchy, breezy coming-of-age comedy
that is anchored with a solid, fearless performance by Aubrey Plaza. 

It's an "American Pie" race-to-lose-your-virginity tale that is not
only surprisingly sweet, and at times smart, but also pleasantly
positive about sex - filtered through a unique female voice and fresh
perspective on age- old genre tropes. It's free of the snickering,
juvenile gross-out attitudes of the "Pie" films. 

The film is uneven, wanders a bit, and sometimes plays like a series of
SNL sketches than a full-on film, but is, on occasion, laugh-out-loud
funny. 

It should get some more love and attention when it arrives on home
video & PPV where it is sure to gain a word-of-mouth following.
<|_=00=_|>
Overachiever and socially awkward high school graduate Brandy is
convinced that she needs to arrive at college with much more sexual
experience than she has at present, which is none. So she approaches
this in the same way she approaches her schoolwork, by setting out her
goals in the form of a list of objectives to be tick-boxed.

As a 61 year old British man, this raunchy US teenage girl sex comedy
should have set my teeth on edge. I watched this in a nearly empty
British cinema, and it really hit the mark with two young women who
clearly identified with every gag in it. And it made me laugh a lot,
too.

Aubrey Plaza, aged 28 and playing 18, does well to convince us that she
is a teenager approaching this "learning experience" with intelligence
but no sense and a complete lack of understanding of the emotional
aspects of sexual relationships. She is also adept at portraying a
Plain Jane who can be unconsciously attractive. The supporting cast is
also good: Clark Gregg is funny but not very believable as Brandy's
father.

One of the things I liked about this movie which is undeniably on the
explicit side (albeit there is no nudity) is that there is an air of
innocence about it, and the characters are broadly quite likable:
neither Brandy not her sister are very sympathetic to start off with,
but they are both funny, and you warm to them.

So don't see it if you object to sex comedies, but if you are OK with
that then you may well get some laughs out of it, especially if you are
young and female.
<|_=00=_|>
Aubrey Plaza is Brandy Klark, fresh out of high school and working as a
lifeguard for the summer before taking off to college. Brandy is a
straight A student with strong morals who has always succeeded at
everything she tries. When she meets Rusty Waters at a grad party, she
makes it a goal to loose her virginity to him before the summer is
over. Not having had any previous sexual experiences whatsoever and
embarrassed about how little she knows about sex, Brandy decides to
educate herself, taking it on like a school project.

The To Do List takes us back to 1993 with an excellent cast including
Bill Hader, possibly the best comedic actor working today, Johnny
Simmons as Brandy's best male friend, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Alia
Shawkat as Brandy's best friend, Rachel Bilson as Brandy's older sister
as well as Clark Gregg and Connie Britton as Brandy's parents. Even
Andy Samberg appears in the film's funniest sequence.

With all the greatness The To Do List had going for it, it falls to the
level of an American Pie flick. This sex-comedy is so raunchy that it
becomes more uncomfortable than funny to watch, even embarrassing in
some scenes. Oddly enough the only genuine part of the film is the
friendship that blossoms between employee and boss, Aubrey Plaza and
Bill Hader. However that still isn't enough to save the film from the
failed attempts at laugh-out-loud worthy low-brow humor.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously I think this movie really made the era look bad! The jokes
were so not funny and the storyline was rather ****** up! I couldn't
believe Andy Samburg and Bill Hader were on this, they shouldve backed
away, they knew well that this is one of the worst films together!

Rather then make this comedy raunchy or full of filth, they should've
got better actors and not make this just a 'comedy'. The insults were
really horrible and more like what young children would say, like if
they were fighting with other children. However, these are adult
actors, they should be more appropriate then that within being involved
in a comedy film. 

Terrible movie, terrible actors and terrible plot!
<|_=00=_|>
I normally can see merit in almost any movie. I am definitely a glass
half-full type of person. I thought that this would be a coming-of-age
movie that would be similar to Porky's or American Pie. However, I was
disappointed to find a movie that really had no point and no message to
tell its viewers. 

From disgusting gags about a girl eating feces to other scenes of girls
continuing to have sex in front of their parents after getting caught,
the movie lacked any realism. She creates a list to create a list, not
out of an interest in self-exploration or in discovering more about how
people think and interact. She goes tediously through the list with no
real emotion (similar to her Parks and Rec character) and I similarly
found myself with the same ambivalence, apathy, and disinterest that
she took in her subject matter. 

I rented it knowing that it would be raunchy. However, it was not
raunchy, it was simply mind- numbingly stupid and a waste of a couple
hours of time. I would rather watch Porky's or American Pie for a
revolving 24-hour back-to-back setting than to watch this movie another
time. I always finish movies and this was one of the few that I thought
about turning off and not finishing. It just continually grew more and
more boring and disinterested by the minute. None of the characters,
except for Bill Hader, were at all likable or relatable.
<|_=00=_|>
In short, this film was just ridiculously stupid and ever so stiffly
written.

It is the first film I have ever walked out of. There were at least 7
or 8 couples who left the theater, along with a group of probably 10
people, and an immeasurable amount of people who started playing on
their phones. I'm sure I was followed by a few more people as well.

Before you discard my review because I didn't watch the end, I did stay
for about 80 out of the 105 minutes and just didn't care enough to
stay.

The film has a highly overdone premise, yet I hoped it would take a
somewhat original take on it with this "to-do list" idea. Wrong. The
movie had the most stiff dialog that was just so full of overly crude
and unrealistic give and take between characters that it made me feel
like I was watching some sort of amateur movie made by a sex-crazed
film student. 

Before you write me off as a prude who just picked the wrong film, I'll
tell you that I'm not. I watch and enjoy many modern comedies but this
one was just so bland and stupid. The depiction of the main character
was confused and poor. The main character didn't allow for as much
humor to pervade the film as it could have and that is the fault of the
writer. It's almost like Mrs. Bill Hader (writer and director) didn't
know what to do to add in humor so she threw in her husband for a
little bit of weak and lame slapstick/stupidity humor.

An obvious comparison of this film would be the American Pie films,
which share in the same sort of over-the-top sexual content/humor. I
enjoyed those way more than this film simply because they were funny
and had characters you actually liked. The stiffness of the characters
in this movie were at the fault of the writer, no one else. Rachel
Bilson and Clark Gregg, in the little screen time they had, made a
legit effort to bring realism into their characters and allowed for a
couple short chuckles.

It seems that this film is getting some good reviews here on IMDb, and
that's okay, I'm not trying to ruin Maggie Carey's career or anything.
I'm just telling it like I saw it, and I respect the positive reviews,
but for me I just didn't catch the funny parts in such an awkwardly
progressing story about a girl who completes sexual actions with others
as part of a to-do list.

Overall, the film was an unsophisticated, unrealistic, overly explicit
and awkward dramatization of teenage sexuality. The only reason I gave
this 2 stars instead of 1 is because of some of the supporting
characters who had somewhat attractive performances and saved some of
the more awkward scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
I could never get all these movie that have heavy talking about sex,
like sperm swallowing etc. and they never showing a female nipple.

So in this movie too, you get the 99% of the dialogs being about
handjobs, and blowjobs and backdoors and pussy licking etc. and you can
hear the sound, see the moves, the awkward positions, you even see the
glitchy semen in the hand of the girl or in her mouth BUT there is
absolutely no nudity.

It's very very pretentious...if you ask me. A bad choice that makes an
uneven film.

Here you have a female screenwriter/director who (not surprisingly)
didn't do anything after this crap, and who she employed her husband
(and father of 3 Bill Hader) as the star.

The whole film is very diminishing about women and treats her with a
manner, even worst than whores. All of the "sex" scenes are disturbing
and trying to force some laughs from the awkwardness of showing some
(parent, friend, nephew, coworker) walking right during the act,
wherever the place and whenever the time.

There is also no meaning in this. No moral about friendship, or
feelings, or parenthood, or marriage, or education or ...nothing.

Overall: An empty shell of a movie. If you want tips like "Let your
one-night stand lover drink pineapple juice so his sperm will taste
sweet when you swallow it" than this is the movie for you. Otherwise...
<|_=00=_|>
When Brandy Klark (Aubrey Plaza) , the class scholar and all around
nerd, decides to become more sexually experienced before going off to
college, she makes herself a to do list to help her work her way up to
losing her virginity. Along the way, Brandy gets a job at the local
pool in order to gain the attention of Rusy (Scott Porter), while also
being lusted by her friend Cameron (Johnny Simmons). With the help of
her friends Fiona (Alia Shawkat) and Wendy (Sarah Steele), and sexually
experienced older sister Amber (Rachel Bilson), Brandy goes gets a
crash course on the road to sexuality. 

In this 90s-era film, The To Do List tries to follow in the footsteps
of teen sex comedies like American Pie and Superbad, but in the end it
fails to even be on the same level as these films. The film definitely
features its share of comedic moments that can be pretty funny, but
ultimately it gets carried away by its over-abundance of crude and
gross out moments that even the two aforementioned films kept a handle
on. The problem is, the story clearly wants to give some heart and
moral to the story, but the crudeness really prevents it from showing
until the very end where it's clearly written out. It fails to let it's
real intentions shine through by trying to throw in every graphic
sexual situation or conversation that they can come up with. And it
really hurts the film. A majority of the funny moments even come from
the non-gross out moments. 

On a positive note, the film features a great back drop of several 90s
songs that really fill the setting, and provide a great treat to listen
to. After viewing this film, the viewer will never be able to listen to
Dreams by The Cranberries the same way ever again.

Apart from the soundtrack, the star-filled cast also saves the film
from being a complete flop. Aubrey Plaza does provide some great
comical moments as the nerdy and awkward protagonist. Scott Porter as
the rocker stud also gets his shot of showing his comical side after
his stretch of dramatic t.v. roles. Some of the major stand outs
include Connie Britton and Clark Gregg as Brandy's parents who are very
blunt as far as sex. These two definitely provide a lot of the major
comical moments of the film. The whole cast does a well-done job with
what they are given and they appear to have a fun time doing it (no pun
intended). 

I can't say The To Do List is an awful film, but it's pretty weak one
as far as the story goes with more interest in having more gross out
humor than anything else. But the soundtrack and its fun cast do a fine
job of making up for its shortcomings.

My Rating: 5/10
