
After the ordeal of On Stranger Tides comes a sequel that sets sails in
a truly amazing and beautiful fashion.

First off the film is a great send up compared to the weakest link in
the series, On Stranger Tides. The cast, effects, and story line are
great. The film as a whole is amazing. 

Once again we get Johnny Depp as the ever funny and intoxicated Captain
Jack Sparrow. His performance is hilariously outrageous. He is very
good and funny within the film. Unlike his performance in Stranger
Tides his acting a characterization of the titular captain seems to
have great passion and not the feeling of a called in performance. 

Again my personal favorite character returns to the 5th film is
Geoffrey Rush as the amazingly interesting Captain Hector Barbossa.
Within the Hector still rides high as the captain at the helm of the
Queen Ann's Revenge. When we meet up with him in the film he has become
very wealthy and rich from trade and knocking off ships. He then joins
a false alliance with the films hardcore villain, Captain Salazar.
Rush's performance as the titular captain is great and very touching. A
sad note for many including me is that this is barbossa's last
appearance in the series. He dies towards the end of the film, in a
very courageous and brave manor, trying to save his long lost daughter
Carina Smith, played by Kaya Scodelario.

Next We get are new villain, Captain Salazar, played by Javier Bardem.
Bardem's performance as the tortured Captain Salazar is one for the
ages. His performance is gut renchingly creepy and at the same time
sympathetic in a dark sort of way. His story goes like this, he was a
might Spanish general who hunted and killed thousands of pirates across
the sea. During one of his showdowns he was confronted by a very young
(Thanks to great CGI) Jack Sparrow. He is then tricked by Jack and his
ship is sent into the Devil's Triangle where he and his crew are cursed
to stay forever, or at least until Jack screws up and let's them free.

Will Turner and Elizabeth Swan return for a very brief time span in
this entry but their presence is very well known. Keira Knightly and
Orlando Bloom return as their titular characters from the previous
installments. Will, now five years after 16 years after he became the
captain of the Flying Dutchman is covered in barnacles and coral, still
not as bad as old fish face, Davy Jones. Keira Knightley shows up
towards the climax of the movie where here and will can finally reunite
again after the trident of Poseidon is broken and all of the curses in
the see are destroyed. Though they are in the film for a very brief
time frame their presence is quite uplifting and good, a true treat
would be to see them have bigger roles in up incoming installments. 

Are new characters are Brenton Thwaites and of course Kaya Scodelario
as the two young leads of the film. Thwaite's plays Henry Turner, the
son of Will and Elizabeth, who in the film is sixteen. Within the film,
he wants to free his father from the dreaded curse of being bound to
the Dutchman. In doing so he needs the trident of Poseidon. Thwaite's
plays Henry in a very natural way. He seems in place in the film and
does a very good job. Then we have Kaya Scodelario as Carina Smith.
Smith is a women of science. She believes in the simple and factual way
of life. Later in the film we learn that she is the daughter of
Barbossa, who had her at a very young age along time ago. Their
relationship, Geoffrey Rush's and Kaya Scodelario's is very sweet and
subtle. through the film you can feel Barbossa's pain of knowing who
his daughter is and her not knowing who her father is. Scodelario plays
Carina superbly and is one the new standout performances. 

On a minor charter level we have a new British antagonist, General
Scarfeild played by the brilliant and underrated Australian actor David
Whenham. Though in the film for a short period, Scarfeild is an
interesting charter and chews the scenes he is in. Another new charter
is the films new voodoo witch played by Golihifteh Farahani. In the
film she is the friend of Barbossa and give him valuable information.
She is creepy and interesting as her character. 

From a film making stand point, the film looks great. The colors in the
film are magnificent, the ships and sea faring parts are extraordinary,
and the special effects are freaking amazing, Salazar and his crew are
beautiful in a creepy dead rotted pirate way. The two new directors did
a very good job, way better then Rob Marshall directing On Stranger
Tides. 

On an overall look, Pirate of the Caribbean 5: Dead Men Tell No Tales
is an amazing film. The acting is spectacular. The Visuals are splendid
and the story is very impressive. I loved the film, my one complaint
would be that Barbossa Dies. He was my favorite character in the
series. Well, anyways, the film was a great fun-filled ride and i
personally can't wait until the next one. 

Rest in Peace Captain Barbossa, until we meet again!

Two-Peg legs up!
<|_=00=_|>
(Gonna try not to cuss) I will start by saying I was/am fanatical about
all three of the first ones. Yes the original is still the best, but
the second is almost every damn bit as good. The plot was creative
enough that it felt necessary, the writing was on par with the first,
and Davy Jones is SO freaking good oh my god he is literally my
favorite villain of all time (save for Agent Smith). The third one has
its flaws (though I really can't think of any besides Keira Knightley's
acting being occasionally over the top), but as a whole it's a
WONDERFUL movie. Like sweet Jesus, Hans Zimmer's freaking score for
that movie alone is goddamn legendary. And as a result I totally bought
into the romance between Will & Elizabeth and really just felt an
emotional connection to the whole series because of it (much like the
emotion Howard Shore's music invokes for LotR). But what makes the
third one so impressive is how well it handles ALL of that crazy plot
while still introducing great new sh*t like the Brethren Court. 

But I'm not here to talk about how great the original trilogy was. Odds
are, most of you liked them too. What I want to talk about briefly
before I tear Dead Men Tell No Tales to shreds, is On Stranger Tides.
From what I gather, the fourth installment was/is NOT very popular. I
like it. And I'll tell you why. While it didn't have the same epic
sense of scale and adventure and romance and everything that made the
first three so great, IT STILL HAD GOOD WRITING. It was clever, and
witty, and funny as ever. And this is because Ted & Terry were still
writing them, not FRICKING Jeff Nathanson. OMFG I'll get to him later.
I would urge you though to go back and give On Stranger Tides another
chance, especially if you've now seen the fifth installment. I think
you'll find that even though it doesn't quite hold up against the first
three it still FEELS like a Pirates of the Caribbean, and for all the
reasons that Dead Men Tell No Tales did not, and here they are:

1) Johnny Depp has completely lost it. It's like he forgot how to play
Jack Sparrow. There were seriously times watching him when I thought he
was more Mad Hatter than he was Jack Sparrow. And it's so sad to watch.
The old Jack was an idiot sure, but he was always clever, he was always
suave, always cool. In this he's just silly. It's embarrassing. I'm
serious when I say he acts like the Mad Hatter, you'll see what I mean.
In the fourth one he at least still felt like Jack Sparrow.

2) Zimmer's so called "protege" Geoff Zanelli is so forgettable. I was
actually trying to listen for his music but the only times the music
stood out was when he was rehashing Zimmer's themes. And some of you
may be like *sissy voice "oh that's all Zimmer did was rehash Badelt's
themes". BISH PLEASE. Not only did he make Badelt's original theme
sound even better, he introduced so many new ones (Jack's theme, Davy
Jones' theme, Will & Elizabeth's theme). Even On Stranger Tides added a
fun new Spanish twist to the old stuff.

3) Salazar, Henry, & Carina are also all completely forgettable.
They're worse than Blackbeard (who I actually quite liked), Philip, and
Syrena. There is hardly ANY character development for them and what
little there was felt SO forced. I feel terrible for them (especially
Thwaites and Bardem) because they're not bad actors (Bardem is actually
a fantastic actor) but they just got saddled with one of the WORST
freaking scripts of all time, which brings me to my final and primary
complaint with the fifth installment.

4) JEFF NATHANSON IS CANCER. I mean my biggest (only) concerns from the
start (because let's be honest the trailer's gave NO hint that the
movie would be this bad) were the fact that Zimmer wasn't composing and
that JEFF NATHANSON, the idiot who ruined Indiana Jones, was writing
it, but I NEVER thought he could have F'd up this movie, not as badly
as he did. Like, the movie had SO much going for it. Salazar could have
been another great villain to put alongside Jones and Barbossa, but he
was totally wasted with minimal and poor dialogue. Carina Smith, a
female astronomer, could have been a GREAT female character! And her
romance with Henry could have been done BEAUTIFULLY! Instead, what did
we get? Well, I won't spoil it for you but I will say there is one of
the most forced, predictable, and painstakingly banal twists I've ever
seen in a movie regarding her character.

So, as I said, I absolutely LOVED the first three, and I really did
like the fourth one. Enough that I was very excited about what they
could do with the next one (the fifth one). All my friends said the
franchise was dead but I maintained that the fifth installment had the
potential to be amazing (which it did). And I waited SIX GODDAMNED
YEARS for this fifth one. And it, was just, god, awful. So bad that I
actually now don't want to see another installment, and I will honestly
probably never watch it again because it's so bad that it almost taints
my love for the first four.

I tried to think of reasons to give it more than the lowest possible
rating, any reason. And ALL I could think of was the visual quality
that the two Norwegian directors brought to it, so good for them, I
give the fifth Pirates of the Caribbean a whopping two stars. 

Thank you. This has been my angrily hastened unedited review of Dead
Men Tell No Tales.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a Pirates of the Caribbean movie that I felt quite at par with
the original one. I felt in this movie, the elements of entertainment
were quite abundant. Unlike in the 4th installment, I think this one is
funnier, more thrilling and gave the sense of happiness at the end.
This time,, the movie was not solely telling the story of Jack Sparrow.
Instead the other characters, especially Henry and Carina were given
quite a lot screen time. It was nice to see Jack Sparrow's charm and
wit plus his insistence of helping other people.

This movie provided some background story of Jack while he was young,
which was very interesting to see. The movie was filled with lots of
fun and laughter but also few brief touching moments. The story was
good and there were some surprises too. As a high budget movie, the
movie was filled with very good special effects (some done by the
Industrial Light Magic). I totally loved the effects of the deads
(Salazar's crews), his ship and of course the very cool special effects
at the end.

I also felt that the movie did not have any dull moment. From beginning
till the end, there were always something interesting to see. My wife
and I were entertained throughout the whole movie which was having a
duration of a little over 2 hours. Amazingly, due to the sense of
excitement, my wife was able to hold going to the bathroom till
finished. I guess she forgotten about it while watching.

Actually, even though I looked forward to see this movie, I was a bit
skeptical at first about whether this one would be good enough. I felt
that the 4th one was a little bit dull, and also a bit forced. The
story for that one did not feel strong enough and certainly did not
give a lot of impression. But this one really felt it was worthy of
giving another sequel after this. Especially if you wait till the very
end, after the end-credit scene, where we were given something
interesting to ponder. Might be the potential story for the sequel?
Perhaps if this one is successful enough.

I believe this one really worth to see. I am happy to see Johnny Depp
in this movie which I hope would be a commercial success for him. Since
his past few movies were unfortunately not really successful ones.
Maybe people grew tired of his acting as unusual characters. So if you
are looking for something fun, light, interesting movie with funny
charming pirate and treasure hunt story, you should definitely watch
this one. I am confident you would be entertained like my wife and I
were.

For my complete review, pls have a look in
michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
<|_=00=_|>
After not really caring for the last pirates of the Caribbean film I
didn't have high expectations for this movie but I went and saw it and
I was right to have these low expectations. The premise of the film
sees the return of captain jack sparrow as he leads an expedition for
the Trident of Poseidon while on the run from an old enemy. Johnny depp
has become known for the role of jack sparrow and I think when in that
character he usually delivers his best, that was until this film. He
has some of the charisma and jack nuances in his performances that
makes him entertaining, but this character is a shell of his former
self. This is the least funny he has ever been, the least charming he
has been and I ended up feeling like he phoned in this performance
quite a bit. The supporting cast is pretty large but I will go over the
main ones, Salazar played by Javier bardem is the main villain in this
film and I thought he was a pretty decent villain. He is a little hard
to understand at times but, he is pretty menacing in this film and I
liked his back story that makes him also a little sympathetic but then
he is menacing and it adds to his performance. Geoffrey rush is back as
hector barbosa in this film and like always he is great, I wasn't the
biggest fan of some of the things done with his character but rush
always gives a fun charismatic performance that does make me smile.
However, we get to the new characters played by Brendon thwaites and
kaya scodelario who are both completely wooden and lacking. I didn't
buy there chemistry at all and I didn't like the involvement of lore to
try to make Them interesting because they really weren't. The story is
very jumbled and a bit all over the place, similar to stranger tides
there is just too many people going after this artifact that you don't
even remember them all. The Salazar plot and trident plot feels like
two different movies and the meshing just really didn't work. The
script has a couple of laughs in it I can't deny that I laughed enough
for passable. However, there was a lot of misses in this script with
this possibly being the least funny of the films and definitely the
film with the least drama and heart in it. The style of this film has
some of the pirates action scenes that are very enjoyable especially
towards the beginning of the film. But as the film progresses the
action felt a bit hollow as I didn't really care about any of the
characters. Overall this is the weakest pirates film in my opinion and
unless you are a big fan of this franchise like me it isn't really
worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The fifth installment of the Pirates-series is by all means a step up
from the fourth. In all film-series, when a sequel is released it's
mandatory to compare it to the best one - which in this case arguably
everyone agrees is the first one. That may be unfair, but it's the
reality. Now.

Pirates of the Caribbean: Salazar's Revenge does give us some
spectacular moments. The visual effects really is astonishing, and some
of the scenes is beyond anything I have ever seen before. That's
impressing. But that's not why I like Pirates of the Caribbean. What I
expect (hope) from a Pirates-film is elegant and witty dialog,
compelling sea- battles and Jack Sparrow on fire. And this last bit I
think is the biggest reason why this one fails to deliver. 

In my opinion, Johnny Depp has lost his way as captain Jack. And I
think that's natural, after all, it's been 13 years since he first
portrait the character. He's gotten older and that really shows. This,
combined with a really poor script, regarding Jack at least, makes it
all fall apart. Half the time he's completely drunk (really drunk, not
just usual Jack-tipsy) and half the time he tells bad jokes which
really is beneath a genius character like Jack Sparrow. 

The film starts on a positive note. I had good hopes that it could go
somewhere, but mid- way through the story starts to split up and it
didn't really have a good rhythm to it. In addition I think there are a
lot of characters that just don't do anything to the story or adds
humor or dynamic. 

The decision to bring back Orlando Bloom to play Will Turner is
fundamentally a good one, but I'm so disappointed with he's involvement
in the film. It seems Disney only took him back to promote the film and
lure old fans back for more. If he's to be involved, he should have a
major role. 

Javier Bardem does a good job as villain, but nothing I will remember
him by. 

All in all, I would say that I am disappointed. I didn't have huge
expectations to begin with, but where I thought the film would deliver,
it just didn't. Basically it's a film for the technical wizards to show
how much they can do in terms of visual effects , and they can do a
lot. It's just not what I want.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved it! Yes, it is made for the family audiences but it really kept
me going for two hours! It is an action filled adventure on the high
seas from the times when Britannia ruled the waves. It has it all!
Action, pirates, sailors, ghosts and what not, but it really is
entertaining! You have no other option but to take your kids to this
one, you will not be sorry.

I especially liked Mr. Bardem as Captain Salazar, his acting is a
little bit better then the rest but every actor gave hundred percent
for this film and it shows! 

Since this is my review 400 for IMDb.com I have to take an opportunity
to thank staff at the Multiplex Cinema City Sarajevo for being
generally kind and professional. Not to forget Meeting Point Cinema as
well. I also want to thank IMDb.com staff for letting MOST of my
reviews pass.
<|_=00=_|>
I was going to give a 10 simply due to opening scene but then movie
started to slow a little bit.Also, unnecessarily, the stone lady on the
head of the ship started to jump ship to ship and try to hunt Jack with
a giant stone spear,in a sudden.Nonetheless, I will surely watch this
movie again. Seeing Jack moving around is always worth watching the
whole movie.So it is a smiling 8.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I wonder how bad can the Hollywood script writers be? Looks
like the people who wrote the script for this movie were imbeciles. Its
one thing to write a bad script and its totally another to write
something which is this nonsensical.

The title of the movie is "dead men tell no tales" but Salazer does
tell a long tale to Barbosa a...... 

The biggest culprit of this boring movie is Jonny Depp. He makes no
effort what-so- ever to deliver anything new.

The jokes are all stale, the dialog is stale, the characters are stale. 

Perhaps the only bright thing was Javier bardem... but he was not
enough to save this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'Drunk Jack' is nothing new, and for that matter, nothing else except
ONE small point is new. 

First, the worst in a tired, exhausted, barely-there plot line that
serves no purpose, doesn't take you on a refreshed journey and doesn't
project real interest, anywhere. The special effects throughout are up
a bit, but to be expected, though not slow enough to appreciate much of
the available graphics wizardry of 2017. The austere and unsurprising
plot leaves so little in imagination that someone forgot to develop
characters, build something and have buy-in. This movie fails on so
many levels that you ponder who thought this was a great direction??

Secondly, Jack is tiresome. Nothing new from him. Boring. The hatred
from the 'villain' is sincere if not the plot that seems to put Sparrow
at second whistle throughout the film. There literally is ZERO flavor,
no life. The boorish overall theme is like a thief that takes all the
charm out of the series with this installment. My two college daughters
watched it with me and after the movie, combined, we struggled to find
value, humor or interest in the movie as a whole. I hope it's the
'last' one because they have clearly beat the proverbial dead horse on
this one. Very disappointed is just one stance as a starting point
here...
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge fan of Pirates of Caribbean franchise. I was desperately
waiting for this 5th installment (Salazar revenge/Dead men tell no
tails). I watched it in IMAX 3D. The movie is full of actions,
adventures and there are a lot of surprises and you will not keep your
eyes away even for a min. This franchise has some of the perfect
special effect and CGI. Every character in the movie is referenced well
and Jack is always ruling the sea. You are aware of the origin of Henry
in the movie from the trailer that he is will turner son but you are
not aware of the relation between carina and captain barbossa. That was
just amazing and emotional as well. While watching I was like OMG what
is going to happen next many times. It was very fun to watch. So far
the best movie for year 2017. And I don't agree with the critics and a
low rating on rotten tomatos. If you enjoyed and remember the movie as
a memory then it is worth watching. 10/10 for story, effects, actions
and comedy. Now waiting for its 6th installment.
