
As a neutral viewer, let me first say about the movie's setting and 
theme, rallying to support or vote against the movie and all these 1/10 
and 10/10 reviews. 

So here are the facts: 

- the movie's goal is "honor the women victims of war" and portray war 
horrors - it is said that it is not supposed to take sides - the plot 
takes place in Serb prison camp and all war criminals portrayed are 
exclusively Serbs

These three lines are enough to explain all the fuss about this movie 
in the media. It was a war - and anyone who is at least a bit more deep 
than to eat whatever media serves, knows what any war is really like. 
It is often said that it was a "brother-killing" war.

All 4 sides (UN is the 4th, doing mostly nothing) have to share their 
responsibility, like all sides have to in any war. I applaud the 
director's idea about telling the story of women victims of the war. 
But to do so completely one-sidedly, while saying it is supposed to 
"honor the victims of war" is very irresponsible and bound to receive 
the negative attention it has. Imagine if any Hollywood producer would 
create a movie about atrocities done to German soldiers by the Allies 
in WWII - not on the same scale, but same problem.

For some truly great films about this war (all sides can agree to 
that), see "No Man's Land" and "Pretty Village, Pretty Flame".

In my opinion, the message of the movie is severely damaged by shifting 
the focus of a lot of viewers to lack of neutrality and presence of 
heavy bias. If it has covered a couple of stories featuring women 
victims, and not a flimsy and unfocused love story covered with 
violence with no clear purpose, it could have been a very good movie. 
Like this, it is weakly executed, fails to deliver focus and strong 
clear message and is very irresponsible.
<|_=00=_|>
I am no Serb/Croat/Bosnian... the film tells nothing about events i
have encountered whatsoever so i have no interest whatsoever in
choosing sides..,I am Just someone who enjoys cinema if it's
good.But...this Film held almost nothing pour moi.The script seemed to
lead nowhere..i seriously had the feeling a few times that the Director
lost all control as to where we where heading.I mean we watch a couple
dancing..suddenly there's an explosion en after that there is no
reference to that explosion what so ever.When they later meet again,
it's as if they never saw each other before.The character studies are
awfully weak and stereotypical...why bother witch Photographical
composition, well lit scenes etc.when awful things like mass-rape are
taking place...I'v read in other reviews ' but it was very beautifully
photographed' in this story that's a weakness IMO.In the first part we
see the main character,Aijla wearing a lovely yellow coloured
sweater..which gives great looking camera color & compositions and
atmosphere...but...why? Why still bother which such details to make
thing look good on a screen while mass rape and murder is taking place?
some script changes are absolutely ridiculous and very far fetched..
another nuisance...the constant very close-up manner of filming the
battle scenes..i found that disturbing and a style figure.....and
yes.., many people complain about this ,..in this film about the
Bosnian carnage the focus lies on the Serbian atrocities during this
war..but that's no problem IMO..this film is a story about what
happened to a part of the Bosnian victims.The Serbian side of the
Bosnian-war story may be told by another film... My main objection is
the creative shortcoming. It,to me was a boring movie.and should hold
lessons in Filmmaker/vision For Jolie.Next time better !

This film to me looked like a schoolgirls naive-sentiment in viewing
the horror's of war. But those horrors were not presented in a horrible
way... i presume the situation in reality was hell. We see a very
stylish hell..with neat framed scenes , an unbelievable and for me,
totally distant sort of 'love' story.., a very weak script to act on it
must have been for the actors... , nice clothing and beautiful light.

I was really in awe as to where the story took me..very far-fetched and
naive. and the casting ...very much stereo-typing..not a creative
choice of cast.Why have them speak American with a Balkan accent? you
see this in a lot of films...to make it 'more realistic..but it easily
becomes mediocre...It's far better & stronger to have them speak either
Serb-Croatian or plain English... I never understand why they do
that....and do not break-away from such a film-making dogma.

let this 1th directional misser be a lesson For Jolie !
<|_=00=_|>
I am from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and fortunately, do not consider
myself as belonging to any of the 'sides.' However, I can tell from
here that this movie stirred a lot of controversy before it had been
even finished. It is ridiculous that Mrs Jolie expected that it would
bring any catharsis in such divided environment where literally
everything is used for political manipulation - it rather gave a fuel
to new controversies and divisions - depending from which 'side' it was
looked at. However, I agree that some taboo topics need to be talked
about. Yet, I found this movie being surprisingly poorly done - a bad
screenplay, shaky directing and the artists who did not seem to believe
what they are doing. One of the most awkward thing was the way they
talked in their (our) native language - it was clearly translated from
English, so these people seemed to be unnatural and they sounded
awkward, aside from some shy attempts of improvisations. No doubt that
the director had most honorable intentions and desires, but I did not
find what this movie was about in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching this movie, all that I can say is that Angelina should
not try to direct again. The movie is bad on so many levels, but it's
the directing that clearly failed the most.

First, the few positives about the movie. Casting is solid, actors do a
decent job even with the awful script they had, but they clearly
struggle to act in English. Camera work is solid, every now and then we
see an interesting shot.

Now, the negatives that are too many to number. The script is god damn
awful, many times it makes no sense at all. It's trying to portray
complexities of the main characters, but does it in a horribly cheesy
and uninspiring way. Making this kind of war drama that braids the
story of few characters with the broader context of war is very hard,
but when done successfully, it has resulted in some of the world's most
memorable movies. This is not one of them. It starts with a good idea,
but then it fails in so many ways. First, it is horribly historically
inaccurate and I don't mean just in the way that Serbs are wearing
Hungarian throwback uniforms (because Bosnian authorities angered with
insulting script have kicked the Angelina's crew out of Bosnia and the
movie had to be shot in Hungary) or the wrong color of Yugoslavian
passports, or the wrong weaponry which is used the wrong way, or the
wrong number of reported war victims mentioned in the movie, etc. Movie
manages to go into whole new, almost metaphysical level of historical
inaccuracy. For instance, every Serb that we see in the movie (that we
know is a Serb) wears a uniform. There is not a single Serb civilian in
the whole movie. Even at the start, when two main characters go on a
date, the Serb is wearing his police uniform. My god Angelina, do you
know that policeman are not allowed to wear uniforms off duty? And what
cop would want to go on a date wearing his beat uniform? Somewhere
around the half movie finally manages to pick up a little and establish
some sort of narrative flow, which is why I won't give it 1/10. But
even that little good about it gets ruined by the end. Since this was
supposed to be a spin on the old Romeo and Juliette tale, it made a lot
of sense to finish the story in the similar way, but no, Angelina opted
for the least logical ending possible.
<|_=00=_|>
It was just too much to watch this film. Not in sense of what it wants
to say but time wise. Wanted to leave around half time but was together
with friends so stayed. I recommend you not to bother watching it as it
has nothing to offer that a European does not know about the
Jugoslavian war. From the perspective of romantic storyline it is also
very shallow. The unfortunate thing about this film is that a talented
actress tried to make a film with quite a good cast, but none of them
will be looking back at it proudly. 

Money not too well spent (meaning here the budget of film and the price
I paid for the ticket).
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing, completely and thoroughly. Completely illogical, no
connection between scenes, poor acting, strange reactions by the
characters. It is completely unclear what message did the plot carry
and where was it going? Waste of time, full load of negative emotions!
It indeed remains unclear what was the message of this film? How war is
terrible thing, or how women suffer the most, or what kind of animals
people can be during war times, or to show one more time how love sees
now boundaries, or... It seems that screenwriter/director choose topic
that is far beyond her directorial capabilities and certainly not
something that one should use as plot for director's debut unless
he/she knows how to get through with the initial idea on the background
of other actions happening...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm honestly quite disappointed in Angelina Jolie. I've seen all of her
interviews she has given about In the Land of Blood and Honey, and her
main goal was to highlight the human emotions caused by war. If this is
was the human emotions she was talking about, then I think she needs to
experience a war herself.

First off, the scene in the beginning seemed rather awkward than
romantic. Their body language are not in rhythm. They are suppose to be
engaging, flirting with their eyes. It almost seems as if they were
waiting for the explosion to occur.

When Ajla get chosen to go to the rape camps, there is not enough
resistance,panic or emotions between Ajla or her sister. It just seemed
too swift. Then when Ajla witnesses a man getting randomly shot on
their way to the rape camp, she just seemed to indifferent. I th The
only scene that really got me was when Danjiel was watching another
Serbian soldier step on Ajla's hand. The way she looks up in pain, but
remains silent in order to be obeident was incredible. Then when the
scene changes to her hugging Danjiel as her hand is in pain, you can
feel the hurt between both Ajla and Danjiel.

The moment where Ajla's sister comes to the house to only find out her
baby was thrown out the window was one of the two scenes that was
extremely inconsistent with natural emotions. When you see the woman on
the floor crying as Ajla's sister asks her where her baby is, you begin
to get scared and anticipate what's going to happen next. Then as
Ajla's sister slowly approaches the balcony, you heart begins to beat
fast! Then as she looks over, you expect to hear a scream somewhere but
you don't. She just covers her mouth. Now, to be fair, let's say that
she's in a state of shock. So then after she discovers her baby has
been thrown out, she doesn't run out the door, SHE WALKS! Then when she
finally gets downstairs and holds her baby, she just holds the baby
with her mouth open in silence for about 30 seconds, then! finally lets
out a cry. I felt totally robbed of human emotions in that scene. It
was like I was more shocked and sad the baby was dead than the mother
in the film! The second terrible scene was when Danijel ties up Ajla on
the bed after listening to his father tell him that Ajla is not to be
trusted. When he comes back in with a gun, you can already feel the
chills of the scene. As he sits next to her, he cries and contemplates
on whether Ajla is his lover or enemy. Now this scene is really good,
up until a point at least. After Danijel contemplates, he then proceeds
to stand up and looks at her, kinda standing over her. At this point,
you are holding your breath thinking like "Is he going to kill her? Or
maybe not?" Then all of a sudden Ajla kisses him, in an attempt to
convince him to spare her life. Then he leans in to slowly kiss her, at
this point, you're still curling your toes because you don't know what
might happen. But all of a sudden, the scene changes to Ajla and
Danjiel having sex, and then the scene changes to a different part. It
seemed as if Angelina just thought the sex would explain that he
decided not to kill her, but it was very unfit for the scene and it
just seemed cheap and lacking any artistic depth.

In the movie, Ajla seemed a bit too indifferent to some of the most
traumatic scenes in the film, and I think Anjelina made her character
too strong. Realistically, there should have been more emotional
torture inside of Ajla, thus making her cry a litte more and not only
when Danjiel abuses her, and when she discovers that her nephew died.

Overall, the storyline did not help to inform people about the
devastation of the Bosnian War because the love story steered me away
from the factual events of the war. Reading the notecards in the end
was the most effective when informing people about the war. The ending
was disappointing and dull, and I hope next time, Angelina takes notes
from movies like Schindler's List. That way, when she films her movie
about Afghanistan, she'll know how to successfully incorporate facts
about historical events, with her storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no movie that can represent the war, because it is something
that includes whole nations, and each nation has thousands of persons
participating in it. And each person has her own painful story to tell.
Especially, here in Balkan. 

No one, who isn't from Balkan can't understand what is going on here,
it's even hard for us. We are just cursed to live in this part of the
world, which has always been major target for powerful people or
countries to invade. In this war, someone had used the fact that in
small country live three nations with different religion and tough
history between them. Media, led by someone, had a major influence in
it. This movie proves that. It has only opened old wounds, and it just
doesn't let us to forget and to live our lives.

The reason why Serbs don't like this movie is this: during this almost
20 years since the war was over, no one remembers the Serbian victims,
no one mentions raped and killed Serbian women and children, who did
nothing to deserve that. Everybody speaks about those Serbian villains,
and yes, I'm ashamed of what they did, like every normal person should
be. But, everybody should understand that Croats, Serbs and Muslims had
their victims and their villains. Common people are victims, those who
were trapped by this war, those who lost their families and their
homes, those who didn't want war at all, and most of us are like that,
whether we are Serbs, Croats or Muslims. We all should blame
individuals who did crimes and who make us to hate each other, who did
nothing wrong. We all should be above this, for our better future and
we all should repress every speech of hate.

When you watch this movie or any other war movie, keep it on mind that
it is just a movie, and that you can't understand any kind of war based
on books, stories, documentary or "wanna be" profitable movie, you have
to live it and even after that you have to be objective. Don't forget,
the winners write history.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to seeing this movie. I have to agree with
one of the other members, "...as bad as a movie can be...", exactly.
The acting was sub-par and the dialogue, which very little existed, was
mostly monotone and single word phrases. I am not going to get into the
political aspects of the movie or who was right and who was wrong in
the Bosinian Conflict. Absent politics and absent whose fault it was
this movie was a complete WASTE. Jolie should stick to acting in the
crappy movies she stars in and forget about directing. I only watched
the movie in its entirety because I was hoping it would get better and
not only did it not get better it got worse. Maybe I did not pick up on
the obvious but was the bar scene, at the beginning of the movie, the
first time two main characters first meet? And if so are we to take
from that that he will risk his live to save her when the conflict is
in full gear? Not believable. When she says her final words to him
"...I'm sorry..." does that mean she was in on the bombing? And for all
the rave reviews out there please, Get out more.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I won't begin with judging from nationalistic point of view,but
from artistic point of view. I am ''Bosnian Serb'' as mentioned in a
film,but we are all Bosnians,no matter what media serves to
you,especially to people who know about our war only from the media.
And now,about my artistic point of view: This is one war story,I agree
and Jolie wanted to tell it to us,and impress us with her director and
narrator skills. But I think it was too big bite for her,especially if
she didn't know enough about the war. You cant learn everything,and
think you know everything only if you watched few documentaries or
heard few stories about something. For me,this movie is pure cruelty
and violence. She tried to show one love story in the cruelty of war.
Okay,but I still think it needed more depth,positive moments,one ''ray
of sun'' to help Jolie show what she wanted.In this,she is lost into
the cruelty of war and love story just appears like trivial thing in
the movie. She could tell a story about love couple caught in war
between two sides,tore between love and pangs of conscience. Movie
contains too many violence,too much for that what Jolie tried to show
us.She said her movie is not black and white.Bad guys and good guys.
Well I think she really made it look like propaganda film without
something that would differ her movie from other movies what are
already made about this war. I think the only one who truly and
beautifully told us the story about the absurd of that war was amazing
director Danis Tanovic. He showed friendship tore between two
sides,that we are humans after all,like the soldier who tried to save
his friend in Tanovic's film,although he is on the opposite side. And
he well deserved the Academy Award. I think the final scene in
Tanovic's film perfectly shoots in the point of the film,and with
melody of one great song,ends the movie,brings tears to the viewer's
eyes no matter was he Serb or Bosnian. After that movie we will really
ask ''Why?''.And I bet viewers from all 3 sides cried at the end of
Tanovic's film.And I think thats the main quality of the film. That
tears are different from those from people who watched Jolie's
movie.Tears in Jolie's movie are caused by disgusting scenes,not from
depth what viewers saw in the movie.She should learn that good movies
are made to be remembered for 5,10,20 years.And that movies should
carry one message.Jolie's movie has no message,no questions after you
saw the movie.This is no great movie-who wants to remember one movie
full of cruelty and raping women?I think Jolie should have had watched
Tanovic's film before she begun to shoot this movie.I think she could
learn a lot from him,how a real masterpiece movie is made.Best wishes

P.S. She tried to make her very own Schindler's list but in that movie
you see a light of hope,a message that in Germany existed humans,that
there aren't only Nazis,that we are all humans before being a
German,Jew,Serb or Muslim.So,assuming all facts very poor quality film
from artistic side,because although I tried a lot,I still don't know
what statement did she try to make with this film,except opening wounds
of one people,one nation,and with that she is making no favor to
Bosnian people
