
My husband and I went looking for a fun movie last weekend and ran
across 50-1. Being a horse lover and a delighted witness to Mine that
Bird's Kentucky Derby performance, we drove the hour and a half to see
it in nearby Santa Fe. What a fun movie! We thoroughly enjoyed it, as
apparently did everyone else in the theater. We were all laughing,
crying and several times nearly the entire audience stood to clap for
joy. Awesome movie depicting the underdog story of down-to-earth folk
from Southern New Mexico - including a down-on-his-luck, broke (in more
than one sense) cowboy horse trainer, a good hearted, wealthy NM owner,
and a team of friends-- risked everything on a little horse with a big
heart. Knowing this was based on the true story of how Mine that Bird
and his unlikely winning NM team shocked horse racing royalty and the
world, helped firmly planted it in my heart as one of my favorite
movies of the last many years. It may not win Oscars, but the story,
the beautiful NM landscape, the good acting of its cast including the
real life jockey, Calvin Borel (who did a great job acting and has the
most amazing smile I've ever seen), HORSES, and - most of all - the
true life story of shocking success in spite of 50-1 odds, puts this
movie on the top of my list. A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
It's very rare that I come away from a movie with any sort of emotional
impact; especially one that is uplifting. Typically, there has to be
some sort of cruelty or injustice for me to genuinely become attached
to a film beyond any sort of typical entertainment value. However, "50
to 1" is one of those instances in which I was completely taken in by
the characters' quest. It's a genuinely fun movie packed with so much
heart that the entire audience gets in on the action. How often have
you gone to a movie and actually heard the crowd cheer multiple times?
I had attended the world premiere in Albuquerque in which that sort of
thing is expected. So, I decided to attended a general public screening
to see what the difference would be. I was surprised to witness even
larger reactions from the public screening than the private one.
Although the film may have some shortcomings due to budgetary issues,
there is no denying that the overall film is much more powerful than
most films you'll see this year. As for entertainment value, I'd put
this $10 million film over most mundane $200 million films any day.
When you see grown men walk away with tears in their eyes, you know
they've seen something special. This movie is a definite must-see in
theaters simply for the race footage alone. The action is so quick and
detailed, that you'll definitely benefit from seeing this film on the
big screen! In fact, I caught several things that made the film even
more enjoyable on the second viewing than on the first. Saddle up and
enjoy the show!
<|_=00=_|>
As the granddaughter of the real-life Doc Blach I was THRILLED with the
movie! The characters were genuine, heartfelt, and really told our
family's story in a way that honored that whole experience. When it
came time for the actual Kentucky Derby the whole theater was cheering,
clapping, and hollering as if the real race was being ran again. It was
truly remarkable and I can't wait to see it again! This movie did a
great job of showing what the little man can do, and that in this
beautiful country we call home - anything can happen. Mine That Bird is
a horse that can give all of us encouragement to keep working hard, and
to never, ever give up!
<|_=00=_|>
I Just loved this movie its one of the best movies Jim Wilson Really
took his time and prided himself o finding the best cast and crew and
neither him or the cast disappointed I was at the las cruces premier at
the cineport 10 theater and got to listen and ask questions first hand
I just want to ask u guys not to miss out on this beautiful story about
a horse who with 50to1 odds came out and won our hearts by doing
something no jockey or horse has ever done take Ur family Ur kids Ur
best friends co-workers u really don't want to miss out I gave this a
10 because it just such a touching and heartwarming story that will
leave u on the edge of Ur seat and have u screaming with excitement
through out the whole movie will guarantee u and promise u that it does
not disappoint one but so get up and go get Ur tickets and get ready
for the best movie to hit the big screen this year!!!! <3 =)
<|_=00=_|>
The odds were 50 to 1 on Mine That Bird at the 2009 Kentucky Derby. In
fact, for much of the race, Mine That Bird was dead last. During the
final turn at Churchill Downs, though, jockey Calvin Borel hugged the
rail and stunned the crowd and the race announcer. Mine That Bird burst
to the front and won.

This Hollywood story in the making, though, is much more than just
about a horse with long odds winning the Kentucky Derby. "50 to 1" is
the story of an eclectic group of cowboys, trainers, and ranch owners
who marshaled their talents and surprised themselves and race fans.

Set in the enchanting lands of New Mexico, and along the roads to
Kentucky, the beauty of this country appears almost as another
character in this great horse story.

Producer/Director Jim Wilson ("Dances With Wolves") and collaborator
Faith Conroy ("Thor") immediately visualized the story on film, and
thus their journey began to secure rights to tell it. Wilson contacted
the horse's owners, Mark Allen and Leonard 'Doc' Blach. Then he
co-wrote a spec script with Conroy, presented it to Allen and Blach,
got their approval, and secured funding from many in the horse racing
industry.

Chip (Skeet Ulrich) and Mark (Christian Kane) are rodeo riders whose
paths first cross when Chip rescues Mark in a bar brawl. That's that
until 10 years later. The horse-training business Chip runs with his
brother Bill (David Atkinson) is about to fail. Chip overhears Mark's
name on the news in a story about a high-priced auction, and decides to
track him down.

Chip shows up at Mark's ranch. After a crazy party with Mark and his
cousin Kelly (Todd Lowe), Chip is sent by Mark to check out a horse in
Canada called Mine That Bird. He persuades Mark and Mark's business
partner - 'Doc' Blach (William Devane) - to buy him.

The horse, though, is a loser and meanwhile, Chip breaks his leg. Rider
Alex (Madelyn Deutch) is brought in to help with the training. She and
Chip clash. She's a tattooed pierced exercise rider; he's a good ol'
cowboy. When Mine That Bird is selected for the Kentucky Derby (based
on winnings in Canada), this motley crew is shocked.

The film about friendship and hope also highlights the beauty of the
hot dusty deserts, with a backdrop of blue-gray mountain ranges or
bronze-colored mesas. Locations were discovered, on occasion,
inadvertently. Chip's ranch was found when Jim Wilson stopped by a feed
store. The woman working there told him of a ranch outside of Las
Cruces. It fit the bill.

Jim Wilson and Faith Conroy came across the bar used for the fight
scene as they were leaving a location that wasn't going to work for
that scene. Here are Faith's words: "So we're driving along, chatting
away, and I see this sign pointing down a road, advertising a place to
get beer. I said, 'Jim, we should check that out.' We almost missed it
on the way back from the other bar, but 10 minutes down that road we
find this place that had been there since 1948." Jim continues the
story, describing how they stopped a passerby and asked her if she knew
about the bar. She told them to check with the folks next door. "So we
go inside and we meet Pat, the owner's sister, who'd been working there
since she was 13," Wilson says. "No one had ever shot a film there
before, so I said, 'Will you let me do a big brawl in here?' They said,
'Have at it, flip the tables over.'" They also got permission to shoot
at Churchill Downs, and shot there in over 20 locations, including the
actual jockeys' room, the barn, and the stall where Mine That Bird was
housed. In fact, the jockey of the winning horse, Calvin Borel, plays
himself in the film. It is his world.

Borel even brought his own tack for use with the horse. He helped with
the design of the set of the jockeys' room. And of course, on the
horse, he naturally fell right into riding as he did in the 2009 Derby
(though footage from the actually Derby was also incorporated into the
film.) Art imitates life which imitates art in this film. For instance,
Chip Woolley and Mark Allen were on the set quite a bit, ensuring
authenticity. Mark even loaned Harleys so that Kane and Lowe could ride
from New Mexico to Churchill Downs as the cousins Mark and Kelly
actually did. And, Chip loaned Ulrich the shirt he wore on Derby Day.

Woolley, leg in a cast, follows the Harleys in a truck as he hauls Mine
That Bird 1700 miles to Churchill Downs. Alex (an amalgam of several
people) accompanies him, and they clash as people do whose outlooks are
so different. As they travel along the open roads, a begrudging kind of
respect develops.

The open-hearted character of New Mexicans comes through in the genuine
friendships that build in the story. When in Churchill Downs, Chip,
Mark, Alex, Doc, and his family ignore the snubs of the blue bloods of
the horse-racing world. They simply have a good time. The friendship
between Mark and Chip is honest. This film is filled with humor and
hope. You may cheer or cry at the unexpected and spectacular victory.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. It's like "Secretariat" with cowboys! Perhaps my
opinion is biased since I live in Roswell where Kentucky Derby winner
Mine That Bird resides in luxury. The actors/director/crew really
caught the feel of rural New Mexico. The script is an intelligent
homage to the underdog. Skeet Ulrich is uncanny as the trainer--every
movement and stance was perfectly natural as a cowboy. William Devane
is the closest to owner Doc Blach anyone could be! And Christian Kane's
quirky humor and physicality help embody the oil-rich, bad boy owner,
who champions two underdogs--a down-and-out trainer and an unknown
horse. But it's the supporting cast that fleshes out the film and makes
it a winner. I rate this film excellent in that it's fun to watch; it
makes the audience cheer; and it never condescends to the average
people behind the scenes of any champion. Kids will love this movie,
but parents will appreciate its messages. Ten feel-good hugs.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the movie 50 to 1 and boy was it good. It's finally nice to
see a family friendly movie. It is a make you feel good movie that will
make you laugh cry and cheer. Hollywood should take note. People want
to see more of this kind of movie. I will definitely go see this movie
again. Christain Kane and Skeet Ulrich are great in their characters
but Calvin Borell was really the star of the show. Even though he is
not an actor he played the part wonderfully. I would highly recommend
this movie. The race will leave you cheering for the underdog. Go see
the movie 50 to 1 you will really enjoy it. Unfortunately there were
not a lot of people in the theater seeing this movie. I hope word gets
around about this movie because it is a great film to see. Jim Wilson
who directed this movie has taken cast and crew on a cross country tour
on a bus to promote this movie. They are meeting the fans and taking
pictures and autographs. This has never been done before and could set
something new in movies. Please go see this movie ans support a great
movie and the cast and crew who worked so hard to get this story told.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely LOVED everything about "50 to 1." I drove from Illinois to
Kentucky to see the cross-country tour they were doing to promote the
movie. The added bonus was that I got to see the movie on the big
screen while I was there. My only regret is that I could only watch it
once before I had to leave Kentucky. Christian Kane is such an amazing
actor. He is so versatile and was absolutely perfect for the part of
Mark Allen. Skeet Ulrich is also one of my favorites, and his portrayal
of Chip Woolley is fantastic. Todd Lowe added a lot of humor to the
movie. Seriously, I want to thank Jim Wilson and Faith Conroy for
fighting so hard to get this story told and out to the fans. They
choose the perfect cast. In addition to the actors I mentioned above,
William Devane, Madelyn Deutch,and Hugo Perez all did a fabulous job.
It is nice to see a feel-good movie based on a true story and something
the whole family can enjoy. I wish I could give "50 to 1" 100 stars!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "50 to 1" tonight with my Mom. Such an amazing movie! It was so
inspiring and uplifting. This is an incredible story, great movie, with
great cinematography, and great acting. It's very family friendly. One
you can take the whole family to. It's a heart-warming movie and easy
to see how much heart went into the filming. I absolutely loved the
fact that the actual jockey that rode Mine That Bird in 2009 played
himself in the film.

The coolest thing, though, was during the Derby the entire audience
started cheering and clapping Bird on like we were actually there. I've
never seen or heard of that before. It's a great story of the underdog.
I would recommend this movie to absolutely everyone, horse lover or
not! Go see it. Take everyone you know. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Well all I can say is. I've seen it twice. World premiere night at the
KiMo theater. My home city of Albuquerque shut down Central Ave.
between 5 th and 6 th street so we could visit with the cast and crew
of 50-1. Not only them but we had the pleasure of having the Champion
of the KentuckyDerby himself was there. I even got to feed Mine That
Bird some peppermint candies. And no one was quite when Calvin made his
move coming up the rail. Everyone was clapping. Cheering. Hollering.
Chanting go Birdie. It was like you were there at the Derby cheering
them on. Will never forget that night. Second time at the movies. And
then repeat of me clapping then everyone joined in. It was kind of
cool. IT WAS WAY COOL!
