
There is one thing you have to know before even read about this movie,
and it isn't the summary: There is already a LOT of things telling the
same old story of the book. How the pilot and the prince became
friends, all the adventures and beyond, in other animations and endless
other media. This movie isn't about those two characters only. It's
about how this story can touch people since it was created, from
toddlers to grandpas, in different ways and in different ages. I've
seen people say out loud "this is not little prince!", but I say "yes,
it is!". Want to see a pure version? Read the book. The animation and
the characters are rich and lovely, the CG and the stop motion are
perfect and well used. Everything is heartwarming. If you don't know
the book, you'll read it after seeing this. If you do, I'm sure you'll
cry a lot. And at the end of the movie you'll want a fox for you too.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie opened today - 29 July 2015 - here in France, and I saw the
second show here where I live, the small town of Paimpol. There were
perhaps 30 people altogether in attendance. I could hear that the few
children among them were bored. So, first comment: 1) This is not a
movie for small children. It won't interest them.

2) If you are expecting a video reproduction of St Exupéry's story, you
will be very disappointed. It's in this movie, but it only comprises a
small part of it. Most of the movie is a frame for that tale, the story
of a small girl who meets an elderly aviator who tells her, in bits and
pieces, the story of his encounter, many years before, with the Little
Prince. If you go expecting just what you know from St Exupéry's story,
most of this movie will therefore be an annoyance to you.

It took me awhile to accept the frame story. It's fairly banal, fairly
Hollywood. Nowhere near the originality of St. Exupéry's remarkable
tale. But if you let yourself go with it, it has an appeal over time.

The part devoted to St. Exupéry's original tale is the best, as far as
I'm concerned.

We also see the prince as an adult, very changed. That came as a shock
at first to me, but again, I let myself go with it, and it had a
certain fairly obvious interest.

This is not a great movie. "Ernest and Célestine" is a thousand times
better. But it's worth seeing.

Again, however, this is NOT a movie for little children. They will be
bored.
<|_=00=_|>
Very successful in bringing Little Prince into today. The movie made me
to read the Little Prince again and learn more. The challenge between
living natural and living modern became fully alive in my mind again
and again. Like my childhood. I have a neighbor very similar to
Aviator. He had long white hair and a very old jacket. He had a magic
smile. I think he was very similar to Aviator. All of my memories of
him became animated in front of my eyes while watching the movie. Maybe
everyone has someone like Aviator in his or her life or must find. The
snake scene was very deep like book. The movie made me to believe yet
there is hope for peace.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually love the French animations, because unlike American, the
stories, musics, characters that influences the thousands of year
cultural history. Definitely not comparable to the Hollywood standards,
but it had its own technical brilliance. All I wondered was why this
film was in English language.

It deserves to be on the upcoming's big occasion (2016 February), if it
is eligible for the American Academy Awards. From the director of 'Kung
Fu Panda' original movie, which was partially based on the children's
novel. The book adaptation is the stop-motion animation and the
remaining story's the regular 3D animation.

Just remember the movies like 'What Dreams May Come' and 'The Lovely
Bones', those magical worlds and breathtaking landscapes. Usually
animations are associated with comedy genre, especially when a child
character attached to it. This film was not even a comedy, more like
those two titles I mentioned.

The screenplay wise it was a very 'Neverwas' type, except this one was
an animation. But appropriate for people of all ages. The kids can
realise the importance of their childhood and the older people can
become kids again. The film compressed the gap and erected a bridge
between the two hoods, the childhood and the adulthood.

"What is essential is invisible to the eye."

I did not know what to expect from it, but I highly satisfied with the
final product. The film characters had no names, but called, the Little
Girl, Mother, Fox, Rose, Snake, King et cetera as what their role is
and species. Barely there are only 3-4 characters where the story was
focused. Obviously it had a villain, but very unusual existence time
and in a crucial part of the story.

I don't remember how the 100 minutes went so fast like a ray of the
light beam flashed away. The pace of narration was not a rushy, except
the opening part. But once the old man character, the Aviator, voiced
by Jeff Bridge was introduced, the movie turned into completely
different and awesome. Yes, Jeff Bridge's voice was so good for the
background narration.

This story is about an old man who refused to grow up mentally and
believes the existence of the magical stars and planets. The whole
neighborhood stayed away from him and his troubles, until a new girl
arrives at the next door. The little girl befriends him and falls for
all his stories discarding her daily routines, but later it complicates
their relationship after her mother finds out what they're up to. What
happens to them and how the story concludes is the remaining part.

"She was not a common rose. She was the only one of her kind in the
whole universe."

This story was finely fused between the reality and fantasy. Most
essential storyline for the present world. In the name of education how
the children were enforced by their parents to mechanical life with
less time to play out and make their own friends. Especially as they
were lacking the creativity to make up their own fictional worlds with
their toys like the kids from a century ago were.

It might psychologically affect their characters while becoming an
adult like the Aviator in this film, but as one of lines from the movie
say 'Growing up is not the problem. Forgetting is', the children are
losing their innocence over the adult's reality world. Who knows,
someday those kids may become the greatest writer inspired by their
childhood days.

If you ask me, I strongly recommend it for all. It is very encouraging
film for the parents how not to raise their children and for the grown
ups how not to get lost is the adult world. Most elegant flick of the
year, along with a very few others.

You don't have to ignore it because you have read the book, like I said
it was not completely borrowed from the original material. Instead,
two-third of the film was freshly established out of the same name
masterpiece. I'm not familiar with the book, so I've no thoughts that
differentiate between these two formats. But definitely the film
deserved all the appreciation from critics and movie 

9½/10
<|_=00=_|>
Animation is under-estimated, perhaps because we tend to be afraid of
what we do not understand.

I have seen a lot of films, done a lot of reviews and thought I had
seen it all.

I was wrong.

First, I had not read the book prior to seeing this film nor had I seen
the earlier screen version.

No matter. I was transfixed and stunned. I was still sitting there when
the final credits rolled, which is really a feat because the credits
roll for 10 minutes after the word FIN (THE END) rolls. (If you miss
the credits, you miss the TURN AROUND song which itself could be
highlight of one of the most incredible music scores in one of the most
incredible movies ever).

When computers were first being married to animation -- a marriage made
in heaven I think -- I recall an interview with a senior animator who
confided that when the day came that they could get the "eyes" right,
they would have reached the pinnacle of their craft.

That day has arrived. This movie is the herald.

Watching the eyes in this film, I felt as though I was watching real
people. Does that make me sound daft? I hope not. There is one scene
where the little girl watches the Aviator go to the hospital in the
rain. She is at the same time transfixed with sadness and soaking wet.
The animation made both conditions "real" at the same time. I don't
know how. But it did.

Jeff Bridges, a brilliant actor with a record longer than your arm,
gives the "voice" performance of his career here, and Rachael McAdams,
former Femme Fatale, former "against type" actress (TRUE DETECTIVE)
ditto.

Running out of superlatives, something I seldom do, so I will stop
here.

See it. Don't argue. Just see it.
<|_=00=_|>
It was so long ago that this furred creature talked of life and other
miraculous things hoisted up by far fetched maturity and sensibility
presumably alien for a being draped in fur, but it resonates louder and
makes even more sense now, when after all this years I re-read the
novella that was first published in 1943 after the outbreak of second
WW, by French writer and artist Antoine De- Saint Exupery, The Little
Prince. It makes me wonder if it ever were a children's tale, but again
to decode such an honest, sincerely beautiful written work of art, a
child's innocence and naivety is the only play. Such stories don't need
working out you feel the characters as they evolve through the pages
and identify with you. 2015 is about to see in a re-imagined spirit the
animated adaptation of Exupery's invention, from Kung- Fu Panda
director Mark Osborne of the same name. It is majorly awaited. The
trailer was irresistibly delicious instilling a magic like atmosphere
with the equally enchanting background score by Richard Harvey and Hans
Zimmer. This movie got an amazing cast from Bridges to Cottilard, it
will be dream on screen. The little girl's imagination of the Prince
and the fox is done by stop motion animation resembling and staying
true to those old painted images. Remember the dewy water color
illustrations by Exupery depicting the Prince on the asteroid, the
magical rose that grew on itwith flaxen hair and a scarf he just
looked like a cherry boy who lost his way. Walking through the sands,
if you please I would draw you a sheep.
<|_=00=_|>
I could predict the movie ending by the first few minutes or so and I
told my wife "okay, let's see if it can still be entertaining on the
details...". Oh boy, I may never been so glad to be so wrong. I mean,
of course I was hoping for it to be good, but I was expecting very,
very little of it. Most animations I've been watching in the past 2
years or so, including Pixar's, have not being able to move me at all.
At all. And IMDb score was just below what I'd expect from a good one.

( Okay, Inside Out was an exception: great and cute. Maybe my hopes for
that one were too high but I was hoping for a better neural
representation there, and it had some weak science behind it ( don't
take my or Steve Novella's word for it, do your homework ). I would
argue it is even harmful, because it will certainly create new bad
myths about the mind and the brain. )

Anyway, Little Prince at least isn't about science - because else
they'd get it wrong at very least on the lucid dreaming there... But
it's perfectly done. Perfectly. Every little detail. Right near the
beginning the girl gets a new friend and starts to wonder how his
stories could be possible. While she is thinking, the wind in the
background is moving engines. That's art. And science, even if only
subconsciously. Even if.

The symbolism there is exquisite. I have watched a few french movies, I
do know a little about the culture there, I've toured through France
more than any other European country in my 2013 tour... I haven't seen
anything like this before. Maybe I will need to take my french classes
back again, eventually.

Here, let me tell you about 2 math formulas that appear in there (not
the only ones, the first book she does open is about math, probably
algebra, but in french sorry), for a few seconds: first one is about
analytical geometry, and got an Escher picture in it. Now, in Brazil we
don't learn any of that in school, not even Calculus, but I've gone to
first year of Statistics and 1 got semester of Math in there... That
shoot is complex! The only thing I can say about the first picture is
she got a great compressed writing and thinking there. This to me means
more than anything that whoever wrote the script (I haven't read the
book) was an avid math enthusiast (like myself) at very least.

On the second one, however, she gets on to some Calculus, which to me
was one of the funnest parts in school (after geometry, and I didn't
really enjoy Math in college). Math was always my favorite topic in
school. And that's a "simple" 3rd degree expression. All I can say is
it's not being properly resolved, at first sight. But I bet there's a
meaning there I just can't see yet. This is how this movie was made.
Filled with tiny little details at every single second.

I'm very good at Math and at counting, but I can't even understand what
the 6 year old is doing in her book there and those are images that
just don't matter to the plot or for anything else, really. They're
there on their own!

I'll make a real bold guess here, but I think this have became
instantly my favorite film of all times. On top of Forrest Gump,
Matrix, any Pixar's, Bedazzled, Terry Gilliam's, Huckabees, Stranger
than Fiction, BttF, 2001, Interstellar, The Martian (still unwatched),
Terminator you name it. I know almost nobody would agree with me here,
but that's just how I felt having just watched the movie less than 8
hours ago.

It touched me deeply, and it did so by touching both my heart and
brains, like no other one ever did. 34 year old, happily married, with
no kids due to life issues, no job and lots of work to do. Specially
after being this inspired. =)

-- Caue
<|_=00=_|>
I have read this marvelous book many times; first as a naive school boy
and years later as a "grown up", have enjoyed reading it in 4
languages, so I was excited to see this new animation. 

I watched it having in mind to stay open-minded hence the first half
was somehow acceptable; the story of a little girl with St. Exupery in
his last days, mixed with parts from the original story of the book. I
tried to understand the director's viewpoint that: you can't present
this classic, as it is, for today's audience... well, yes and no!

The parts telling the original story; as animation, visuals, colors,
textures are beautiful and touching indeed! Bravo! but the second
half: "Little prince in the 21 century" was rather average, and the
ending more or less disappointing. 

I think there are works of music, literature,art which are to be
reinterpreted very carefully, or better be left in their pure original
form.I feel Exupery's book is in that category. 

If you value the book as a treasure of human literature it's probably
better not to watch this animation. 

If you don't know the book you may enjoy this animation, it is not
bad, but it is not a successful interpretation of "The little Prince". 

At least, they could have the sensitivity of not using the original
title! 

6/10  for the first 55 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course this movie must be special. Anyone who uses the book "the
little prince" for a movie must have something great in mind. Anything
else is a total insult to one of the very best books in history

This movie manages to go in-between. In the first hour or so I wanted
to get up and applaud every 10min. It was stunning and great. The
combination of animation and stop-motion worked perfectly. The contrast
boring modern time and fantasy well pictured. The book was used well as
carrier of the movie...

And then the old man was brought to the hospital... and it was the
movie that died. The search for the little prince was ridiculous, why
did we need a chase and "happy" ending? Why not put more attention to
the different planets the little prince visits in the book instead? It
was all just touched to make space for the ending. Why not make an
ending that worked out the relation little girl/old man better.

Yes the movie is worthwhile, The first hour is stunning, but with the
chosen 2nd part you leave the theater slightly disappointed
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, i never read the book even though i heard about The
Little Prince since i was just a little kid. It's a well-known classic
literature, after all. So, when i hear the book was made into a movie,
i got so excited and couldn't wait to watch it. After i watched it, i
do not regret it at all. It was a good movie and make me want to read
the book version ( I read some of the review, that tell me that this
movie was really different from the book version, so it intrigued my
curiosity )

My review is as an outsider who doesn't know it real story. So, i won't
compare the movie version with the book version. For the movie version,
i guess i pretty much like it. I agree that this movie is not suitable
for kids, since kids will find it boring. The pace of the movie is
kinda slow ( also, it kinds of hard to understand for kids ). The
visual itself, went so well and beautifully finished with the
combination of stop motion and 3D animation.

Well, from my point of view, i think the story itself tried to teach us
about life, happiness, sadness, and how to grow up without forgetting
who we are. All those kinds of valuable things that we tend to forget,
as we grown up and be part of the adult world.

I highly recommended this movie for those who do not read the novel yet
and those who like philosophical things wrapped in a beautiful visual.
