
I am truly shocked by the people criticizing this film for lack of
substance. I've seen comments about how there is limited dialogue, and
therefore no character development, and hardly any story. Did we watch
the same film? I'm thinking we must not have.

Shame dives into the life of a man living with an addiction to sex. The
first 10 minutes of this movie effectively introduces him, his
addiction, his relationship with humanity (sister included), and barely
uses any words to do so. You shouldn't need a lot of dialogue when
emotions are conveyed with facial expressions, effective
cinematography, and great editing. This film is loaded with all of
that.

Obviously films are subjective, but I feel those who say they didn't
get to "know' the characters at all must always need everything spoon
fed to them. I am not a sex addict, but still connected with both
Fassbender and Mulligan. I found the development both subtle and
extremely realistic. Does everything need to always have that Hollywood
ending? Should everything get wrapped up nicely and leave you with a
warm and fuzzy feeling when you walk out of the theater? I definitely
don't think so. 

Anybody who does need that probably shouldn't watch any Steve McQueen
films. Anyone who can appreciate a raw, subtle, and beautifully made
film should go watch Shame.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite having never seen Steve McQueen's Hunger, the smouldering and
sensational acclaim for Shame was simply unreal. Having heard terrific
things about the film, I ventured out and snagged a last minute ticket
to the premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival. Weeks
later, I am still trying to decipher what may be one of the most
shocking and raw films I have seen in quite some time.

The titular Shame in question is what Brandon (Michael Fassbender), a
posh yuppie living in New York City, must live with every day. He is a
sex addict, and his addiction knows no bounds. His estranged sister
Sissy (Carey Mulligan) has also just dropped by his apartment for an
extended stay, making things all the worse.

The plot may not sound like much, because there really is not all that
much to it storywise. Shame is more of a portrait of a man struggling
with his inner demons than it is anything else. There is a story at its
very core, but the primary focus is always on Brandon, his addiction
and what boundaries and limits it pushes him to. I had read about some
of the more "unconventional" and decidedly non-mainstream sexual
escapades (for lack of a better word) Brandon gets himself into, but I
was still incredibly surprised and downright shocked by just how far
McQueen goes with this character. He is brazen and uninhibited in what
he shows on screen, bravely defying the conventions of what we
typically can and cannot see in mainstream cinema. McQueen does not shy
away from hard truths, and does not even try to mask the explicit
nature of some of the sexual acts. Seeing how far Brandon will go to
satisfy and suppress himself is simply harrowing, not unlike films like
Trainspotting and Requiem for a Dream were with their characters' drug
addictions. 

While the film and its frank depiction of sexuality are sometimes
difficult to watch, I found myself mesmerized by the choreography and
cinematography at play throughout. McQueen frames the film with the
audience in the position of a voyeur. Early on, we see Brandon's
morning routine, featuring Fassbender roaming around his chic apartment
totally naked. We see him at his most honest and his most vulnerable, a
man who is unable to hide the truth about himself. Later, we watch him
as he interacts with his office co-workers from behind huge glass
windows, and from a table across from him at a restaurant while he is
on a date. McQueen uses a lot of unbroken shots to help depict this
slice of Brandon's life through tracking shots and an immense amount of
long shots. They help set the very somber mood, and allow the audience
to continue watching as if they were an actual character peering into
the events that transpire for him. McQueen also expertly uses music to
help dictate the action on screen, tearing away the dialogue or sounds
of the scene. It makes for an awkward feeling, but one that evokes a
response with every new scene.

But for all of the shock and audacity, McQueen still managed to make a
deeply troubled film that leaves a lot unsaid, and even more
unresolved. He does not give out simple answers for what causes
Brandon's addiction, or even the reasoning behind the troubled and
strained relationship between Brandon and Sissy. While leaving some
things enigmatic and up to the viewers to decide (many have already
voiced their concerns regarding incest, which seem a bit too outrageous
for this kind of film) is incredibly intriguing and help further propel
the voyeuristic means of viewing the film, it also makes for maddening
thoughts afterwards. What exactly is McQueen trying to say? What is the
point he is trying to make? It all feels like it builds towards nothing
outside of an unsatisfying and deludingly ambiguous climax. As
mentioned earlier, it feels like the story and just about everything
else came second to the portrait he wanted to paint through
Fassbender's canvas. I can appreciate the film as it is, but it makes
it hard to love it the way I thought I would.

Fassbender is stunning as Brandon, magnetizing the audience from the
beginning all the way to the end. He propels the film, using his
reactions and emotions to define the character. He makes Brandon's
struggle one that is very real, and almost horrific. He is unable to
feel intimacy, and watching him struggle to fulfill his urges is
fascinating and deeply disturbing all at once. Watching his face
through candid closeups, you can see just how much raw power went into
the role. But while it is a stellar and tortured performance that more
than proves his weight as an up and coming actor, I never found him to
be nearly as incredibly impressive as we know he can be. I still find
myself at odds with how great it was, and how much greater it could
have been. 

While James Badge Dale is effective in his small role as Brandon's
smarmy and sleazy boss David, it is Mulligan who truly compliments
Fassbender. Her role does not ask a whole lot of her, but her pained
expressions and infinite desire to be loved by everyone is more than
enough to make this a memorable turn for her. While the full frontal
nudity was near useless, I only wish that she could have done more.

Shame is a very well done film, but one that will divide audiences. On
one hand, it is an expertly crafted film about addiction that packs a
great lead performance. On the other hand, it is a maddening film that
answers very little it asks and sometimes shocks just for the sake of
it. It is an impressive feat for a second feature, but one that I think
could have been even better.

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Shame, the real feel bad movie of the year, is only McQueen's second
feature film to date. His first film, Hunger, focused on a man who made
his life very public when he went on a hunger strike during the 1981
Irish Hunger Strikes. In Shame, McQueen dissects the very personal and
often shocking sexual addiction of Brandon Sullivan (Michael
Fassbender). Brandon is a well off business man. He has an apartment in
New York where he leads a seemingly good life, but hides a dark secret
that is on the verge of destroying him. His sex addiction has gone out
of control. To make this even more difficult, his sister drops in
unexpected and crashes at his place (played by Carey Mulligan). Her
lifestyle begins to interfere with his addiction, forcing him to take
drastic measures.

Every waking moment is spent towards achieving one goal: orgasm. We see
him smile, laugh, engage socially, but when he is alone he is focused,
like a junkie going through the routine of drug addiction. Brandon's
tools aren't lighters, spoons, and rubber ties. He uses prostitutes,
Internet pornography, magazines, or his imagination. Even at work his
mind wanders off, either at a passing coworker or something he has
looked up on his computer. This is far from a private matter. His
addiction is slipping into the open and he knows it. We assume he is
aware of his problem. At the beginning of the film we see Brandon lying
naked in bed, the sheet pulled over his private area. He lies
motionless, only staring at the ceiling above, breathing in and out as
if he knows that today is going to be a long day. We know he's not
thinking about work. He has one thing and one thing only. Sex.

Most people associate sex with pleasure. I'm sure Brandon has at one
time or another had a pleasurable experience during intercourse, but he
is long past that stage. During a scene on the subway he spots a woman.
She's an attractive woman. She's alone. Vulnerable. She eyes Brandon
staring back at her. The two have chemistry. In silence they are
mentally engaging each other. His stare never wavers, he just scans her
up and down. Suddenly her face changes. She gets up, showing the
audience her wedding band. We can feel her shame for flirting with
Brandon. He gets up and stands behind her. He follows her out of the
train only to lose her in the crowd. His disappointment isn't so much
in relation to not getting to know her, but that he will have to
continue his search for sex elsewhere.

Brandon is a tragic character. His only connection with people is
linked with sex. How will this person help or interfere with me
reaching my goal of orgasm? Brandon's limit's knows no bounds.
Fassbender, who also appeared in McQueen's Hunger, gives a fascinating
performance. It is fearless both in the sense that it is a physically
challenging role and that he accomplishes the role with such honesty.
He could have played it like some debonair businessman just looking to
score. Fassbender knows that his character is truly disturbed. He knows
that if people found out about his condition he would be ostracized. He
also knows that he needs help and won't get it. All of these factors
come into play and create an incredible performance. Much like Gosling
pulled off in Drive, Fassbender uses his eyes and body language to
express how he feels.

Pain is a word often associated with addiction. We see videos of
addicts going through withdrawals in health class. They kick, scream,
shake, vomit. Evidence of a sickness in the body. Fassbender's
character also shows great pain and uneasiness. During times of sheer
euphoria, at least for a normal person, Fassbender gives us pain and
suffering. He can't help what he's doing but he needs it to stay
normal.

Along with Fassbender is Mulligan, another one of today's rising stars.
Her character is rebellious, dependent, and loving. She wants nothing
more than to find someone to care for her and to spend time with her
brother. Her brother is too involved with his addiction and her taste
in men and willingness to fall in love with them brings her down even
more. She plays a girl on the edge of a breakdown and really shines on
screen. Like Fassbender, she gives her all for the role, exposing her
true colors.

In just two films McQueen has established himself as a major player in
the art house scene. Both films are festival favorites with critical
praise, but the general public isn't ready for his heavy storytelling.
With hope (and some financial backing) he will continue to make the
films he wants to make and hopefully garner enough praise here in the
states to win over more of the public. It's going to be hard if he
keeps getting NC-17 ratings.
<|_=00=_|>


"Shame" centers on Brandon (Michael Fassbender), a lonely, self- 
alienated man in his thirties who tries his best to appear as your 
average New Yorker with an office job whenever he finds himself out in 
public. The trouble with this young man-- or his tragic flaw-- is that 
whenever he finds a minute of privacy in his day, he hastily delves 
into his own fabricated reality: a world of excessive sex, pornography, 
and masturbation. The day Brandon's distressed, disruptive sister Sissy 
(Carey Mulligan) barges into his condo looking for a place to stay 
until things wind down and her sorrows disappear, his life begins to 
spiral out of control. He grows increasingly frustrated with her as he 
feels her invasive presence will bring about the exposure of his 
deepest and darkest secrets. However, we see that this is just a 
manifestation of his feelings of intense shame and regret for leading 
the sad, artificial life he believes is the only one fit for him.

Steve McQueen has the sheer audacity to go where very few filmmakers 
have dared to go before by making a film about sexual addiction and its 
effects on the human mind. In this ambitious boldness, he doesn't want 
to hold back on anything and he isn't afraid to show everything, so the 
result is a film with enough full nudity and explicit sexual content to 
receive an R-rating in Canada, which would probably translate to an NC- 
17 rating in the US, unfortunately. There are several scenes in the 
film where you literally see every inch of skin on the bodies of the 
actors (Fassbender is probably the most physically exposed). Having 
said that, this is never something that comes across as frivolous and 
it only enhances the film's shock factor as a whole.

Michael Fassbender delivers the performance of a lifetime in "Shame", 
and I currently can't see anyone else winning the Oscar for Best Actor 
at the upcoming Academy Awards. He seems to understand his sad, lonely 
character just as well as the screenwriters who gave birth to him (Abi 
Morgan and Steve McQueen). Brandon is his own worst enemy, for he longs 
to find solace in someone and discover genuine human affection, but the 
other side of him remains too caught up in a shameful world detached 
from real feelings and emotions. There are some scenes in the film 
where we, the audience, are left alone with nothing but his 
introspective, subdued presence as he reflects upon his actions in 
regret. These scenes say more than most movies can say within their 
entirety. It's thanks to Michael Fassbender's pitch-perfect performance 
that we can step into his character's shoes and get to feel what he's 
feeling. They say actions speak more than words; with "Shame", acting 
speaks more than the inclusion of any sort of narration ever would. 

Don't worry; I didn't forget about Carey Mulligan! I thought I would 
highlight her performance separately, too. If I had to say only one 
thing about it, I would emphasize how amazed I was at seeing her in 
such an unusual, singular role. She has a tendency to play soft-spoken, 
prim and proper characters-- but that's not the case with "Shame". She 
really submerges herself into this disastrous, uncontrollable mess of a 
young woman who never conceals her deepest feelings to the world-- be 
it joy or sorrow. There's this one very memorable scene in the film 
where she sings her own rendition of the jazz standard "New York, New 
York" in a lounge (she's a singer who does gigs here and there), and 
for the duration of the song, the camera stays focused on her face. 
There are no cuts nor camera movements for a good five minutes (of 
course, this won't come as a big shock to you if you have seen Steve 
McQueen's "Hunger"), yet somehow, this scene is absolutely 
mesmerizing-- almost hypnotizing. Just the way she naturally glances 
about apprehensively as this beautiful voice is unleashed (although it 
probably isn't hers) is enough to send shivers down your spine.

What can I say about all the other aspects of the film? Well, since 
Steve McQueen was the man behind the direction and shot composition, 
it's no big surprise that "Shame" is expertly crafted in every little 
detail. McQueen used the same cinematographer (Sean Bobbitt) and editor 
(Joe Walker) of his first feature to achieve the same impressive 
aesthetic look. Some parts of the film must have required so much time 
and effort from the editor, it's hard to believe what was accomplished! 
As for the cinematography, I'm sure you'll be floored by it within the 
first five minutes of the film. In this opening scene, Brandon finds 
himself staring at a woman sitting across from him as he is riding the 
subway. He misunderstands her frightened glances and nervous attempts 
to display her wedding ring as romantic advances, so when she gets off 
in a panic at the next stop, he immediately follows her. In one of the 
most beautiful, gliding shots I've ever witnessed-- with an emotionally 
shattering musical composition by Harry Escott playing all throughout-- 
we see Brandon running up the station stairs and looking around for the 
woman, only to realize that she had run away from him. His failure to 
comprehend human interactions in this scene already gives us a distinct 
perception on this poor character's serious vulnerability.

In sum, Steve McQueen's "Shame" is a masterful character study with 
top- grade performances from Michael Fassbender and Carey Mulligan and 
a raw power unmatched by any other film I've seen. This is surely not a 
film for everyone, as it deals with dark, gritty topics often labeled 
as far too controversial for the big screen. But if you're open to true 
cinema, here's a devastating powerhouse of a film that will chill you 
to the bone and forever stay with you.
<|_=00=_|>
Brandon seems to be successful in life: a steady job, a nice apartment,
good friends and success with women. But something prevents Brandon
from having a relationship that lasts more than four months, this
incapacity is due to the fact that Brandon is a sex addict: to casual
encounters with strangers and prostitutes, to pornography (both during
and after working hours), to masturbation. And to some extent he seems
to have his addiction under control, until her sister Sissy arrives
unexpectedly looking for a place to live for a while.

Under this premise British director Steve McQueen delivers a
fascinating character study which explores how modern life (in which
new technologies play a major role), increasingly isolates people and
makes them unable to establish emotional bonds with others. In the case
of Brandon, a hunter in search of pleasure and not love, the arrival of
his sister will make him prey of his emotions and will make him face
his reality.

One aspect that has caused controversy is the way so raw and explicit
to show Brandon's sexual encounters, however this becomes a necessary
element, since it is through them that you can see Brandon's need and
desperation as Sissy is more involved in his life. Special mention
deserves the dynamics established between them, since it is fully
nuanced and can even be uncomfortable to witness but is devastatingly
emotional(especially in the last minutes of the story).

However, the most important element for the success of the film lies in
the performances: in the hands of less committed actors Brandon and
Sissy's conflicts would be unconvincing, but McQueen wisely chooses
Michael Fassbender (both had previously worked together on Hunger), who
literally bares body and soul to take Brandon's emotions to the limit
and does it so impressively in a brave and courageous performance (and
unfortunately the Academy possibly considered too intense for
consideration in their nominations). Meanwhile Carey Mulligan proves to
be one of the young actresses with the best prospects and acting range
nowadays: her rendition of the classic song New York, New York is an
utter delight as well is one of the best scenes in the film.

Shame, in the end (as in most character studies) does not seek to
create empathy for the characters, but rather wants us to reflect and
ask ourselves how we would react in similar situations.
<|_=00=_|>
This was not an easy film to watch and even less easy to reflect on.
However, I thought it was a great film. Original and brave. The acting
was totally convincing and the theme important and challenging. The
repeated reminders of the hypocrisy of our society regarding sex and
violence were clever and uncomfortable. I was very disappointed, but
not surprised, that this film received no recognition at the awards
ceremony. Normally, "sex, sells" is written on the heart of all
promoters. But not in this case, as it is not at all titillating. A
genuinely adult film (not the usual meaning). Fine performances from
Michael Fassbinder and Carry Mulligan.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve McQueen made a real impact in the film world with his powerful
debut Hunger. But like with musicians, there is always the risk that a
director's second film will not live up to the high expectations the
first effort sets. Yet McQueen has a good go with his dark exploration
of human character in Shame.

Brandon (Michael Fassbender) is a successful and well off man living in
New York City. He is also a sex addict who constantly picks up women,
hires prostitutes, views internet porn daily and masturbates at any
given opportunity. It affects his day to day life and he lives a lonely
existence. His life is made more complex when his singer sister Sissy
(Carey Mulligan), a woman with obvious problems, crashes at his place.
She interferes with his life, including sleeping with his boss, David
(James Badge Dale) and sets Brandon off to tackle his addiction.

Brandon is depicted as a really despicable character, but he is a man
struggling with an addiction. There is a number of sexual scenes
throughout Shame, but there is no eroticism as Brandon explores more
depraved and disgusting acts and his life spirals out of control. Shame
plays as a drug addition movie, similar to Requiem for a Dream as
someone struggles to give up something hazardous.

Fassbender offers a powerful performance as a dark, sinister man with
strong interplay with Mulligan as he becomes threatening towards her.
Compare him to Mulligan, a much more brittle character, on the edge for
different reason. She gives a heartbreaking performance as a woman who
does not know how to do deal with problems and has a sadness in her
eyes. Their scenes were enhanced by McQueen's direction, using hand
held cameras to follows Fassbender and the conversations stick to one
point, making you feel like you are really watching them in a
voyeuristic matter. This makes the movie more tense as the tone changes
in an instant.

McQueen employs a grainy filter, giving Shame a dark, grim look which
is perfectly fitting considering the atmosphere of the movie. The
visuals have a similar feel and tone as other gritty and grim New York
set films such as Taxi Driver, Midnight Cowboy and American Psycho, all
of which follow the horrible underbelly of the city. He has shown that
he is a great actors' director, but McQueen also had some great
visuals, such as a long tracking shot of Brandon jogging and Brandon
watching two people having sex in their apartment.

There are many moments in the movie that have little dialogue, relying
on Fassbender superb abilities as an actor, particularly key in the
beginning and during a long montage of Brandon wandering alone in New
York, playing like a scene in the great novel Last Exit to Brooklyn.
This is a movie about Brandon's continuing descent and self-sabotage
and Fassbender should hopefully gain an Oscar nomination to back up his
award buzz in Europe.

Shame continues McQueen's reputation as being one of the best emerging
directors around, sticking to his no holds barred, brutal style which
keeps a stage play quality to the presentation. Shame is tough, but
worthy just for Fassbender's performance and keeps to a tradition of
grim New York based film.

Please visit www.playeraffinity.com
<|_=00=_|>
This film instantly drew me in. Fassbender's performance is complex and
truly believable.I can honestly say that if you are not haunted by the
torment of both Michael Fassbender's and Carey Mulligan's performance,
then you are in denial. The pain is apparent, the intrigue of what
happened to these siblings is staring you in the face throughout the
film. The role's Fassbender has chosen lately have made me an ultimate
fan! Another McQueen movie, HUNGER, also stars Fassbender as an
Irishman in political protest against the corrupt government of the
"80's. I tremendously enjoy watching him on the screen. Michael
Fassbender relays raw emotion and true passion to create believable and
relatable characters. Im looking forward to future projects.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Fassbender's commitment is overwhelming. He must trust his
director, implicitly. Good for him. Very rarely we've been exposed to
so much sex without an ounce of erotic flavors. Well, that was not the
intention, clearly. This is a remarkably serious film about
addiction.To make matters even darker I had seen Michael Fassbender as
Jung only a few days before. What an actor! Now I feel I'm as familiar
with his anatomy as Mrs. Fassbender must be. I must admit the film
stayed with me because within its mathematical coldness there is a
palpable element of horror. Was it me or Fassbender shows the face of
death in one of the many sexual occasions? Chilling really. I will take
my chances and recommend it, as long as you don't take your children -
I guess you can't NC17 - or your grandparents.
<|_=00=_|>
Masterpiece? Really? I had expectations after seeing the trailer and
having seen Fassbender play in other movies, but boy was I
disappointed! Not by the actors, even though I thought Carey Mulligan
was better in other movies, Michael Fassebender is actually the only
good thing I kept from the movie. Thhe story doesn't go anywhere in my
opinion. McQueen only gives glimpses of few things that are abandoned
right away like his relationship to his colleague, his family past, his
sister (wasn't it the center point of the movie, to have a situation
where she disturbs everything? she's not present enough for me). I
would have preferred to have shorter or fewer sex scenes (all the sex
showed does not serve the story that much after a while we've seen it
all!) and more deeper views on Brandon's relationships. 

I don't mind to see a dark movie (actually I usually appreciate it), or
a slow movie where it's more about contemplating, getting close to the
characters to feel what it's about. But "Shame" didn't get me at all, I
was just glad when it was over, a bit mad to have paid a ticket, and
very disappointed.
