
I just returned from a screening of this film, and I feel the need to
say that it was a really pleasing experience.

At first I had some doubts about it since the first reviews I'd read
about the film were not too promising. It was supposed to be decent yet
too long, and not really compelling. I'm very glad to say that I
ignored these and went with my gut feeling to go see it anyway.
Thoroughly well executed as well in music score as visual
cinematography, the real standout in this one is the fact that it
really gets you to understand both sides of the brother's stories. It
is really hard to tell who's wrong and who's right by the time you get
to the end of the screening. An obvious call as it may seem at first
but when the chips fall as they do one might have to reconsider their
opinion. The excellence of this movie is the way in which it manages to
blend ethical questions, family ties, and personal beliefs in a way
that makes perfect sense without wanting to be overly self-aware or
condemning. It is and remains a tale of two brother's with diverging
paths and beliefs in their respective lives and how they interact with
each other and their shared environment. Praise to Clive Owen for
portraying his character the way he does, he really fits the part and
gives a more real and deeper dimension to the role. Every other actor
and actress' portrayal is also quite spot on, and even the 'bad guys'
in it feel relatable. It has a long runtime but to me it never felt as
such, it doesn't bore and in my opinion its runtime seems necessary to
let you see every aspect of the story. A solid character study of two
brother's that want to like each other and do so in their own way but
struggle with their different views on life and the fine line between
right and wrong.

Maybe "Blood Ties" isn't the best film that has been released this year
but it's solid both in story as in execution. It certainly deserves
better than 'moderate' reviews.
<|_=00=_|>
Love the movie. One of the best movies I have seen. Excellent story and
good screenplay to go with it. However, need to be patient to follow
the story line effectively through. Not a simple straightforward story
which we usually see in movies. Good family crime drama. It is a
thriller reaching the climax at the end. Like the ending too. The
starting and the ending of the story blend together very well. In fact
all the actors and actresses portrayed their parts very well indeed.
The story is adapted from a French novel and movie. Clive Owen did a
very good job as the other brother. Good choice of 60s music back
ground. If you like simple straightforward action movie, then this is
definitely not your type. Watch it patiently and you will love the
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Real meat and potatoes from the 70's & 80's. It has a real feel to root
on the bad guy. Nice plot with plenty of questionable characters, who
all have weaknesses. Rise to the top dirty. Good stuff! A must buy! A
need to see film. Remember the 70's, Starsky & Hutch? But with real
life drama. It doesn't make any sense having golden dreams. If you have
a blood thirst for easy money. Standing on the bottom rung of a ladder
will push you to heights unknown. You start out greedy, with all
intentions on bringing everyone up with you. Watch out for
back-stabbers that linger like jackals with no back bone. Reminds me of
the "Dead Presidents" but catch me if you can. With all the taste for
the unfortunate.
<|_=00=_|>
All the ingredients were there and the whole time watching it, I was
rooting for this to be an intense, potentially "epic" '70s crime movie,
and at first, it FELT like it could easily be just that, and then comes
some contrived plot devices that bring you back into present day.

I won't spoil anything though, read the summary for a summary. The
movie easily captures the '70s with its set pieces and locations and
even gives you the feel of a movie made in that era. There are moments
of brilliance that come in the form of suspenseful buildups, great
direction, and editing and score work that turns some scene transitions
into awesomeness. With a 2 hour running time, I had no issues with it
feeling long or boring. The acting is impressive on all accounts (some
chemistry could be a bit weird though) and for about the first hour I
was engaged and feeling, 'wow, if they could just keep this up,' and
then of course, unfortunately, they don't.

At some point some things just start to feel like their just being
tossed in. I think one of its main problems is that the only real
character development is placed on the two leads, so you can empathize
when it calls for it and understand why the leads feel and act as they
do, but only towards each other, and not always in the context of their
interactions with supporting characters. The story calls for enough
twists and turns that there is no room to do much developing with the
supporting characters and this causes certain situations to happen
rather abruptly or seem forced in order to get to the next stage. This
could all be easily overlooked if it didn't happen so often (and at
critical moments) and continually cause me to lose my suspension of
disbelief while viewing an, otherwise, very well made movie.

Problems with plot are highly subjective so I still recommend this and
am sure people will find what they were looking for, I ALMOST did.
6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The cast of Blood Ties is impressive enough. Clive Owen, Billy Crudup,
James Caan, Mila Kunis, Zoe Saldana and Marion Cotillard is an
impressive collection of talent but I'm not sure if any of them is
terribly convincing in their roles. Crudup and Owen didn't really have
the kind of chemistry on the screen you'd expect from brothers. There's
really no bad acting here but nothing great or memorable either, just
average. It was kind of funny seeing Jamie Hector (Marlo from the Wire)
as a cop, a bit of a miscast because it was too distracting. 

The plot didn't provide any surprises and it was very generic. The
central idea is as old as it gets: Two brothers, one a criminal and the
other a cop. We've seen this before, haven't we? I was just about
interested for the first hour but I became increasingly bored when it
hit me how dry and tedious the whole thing started to look. There's
nothing new, edgy or clever about this script really and it lacks
energy and flow. The running time was a bit too long for this kind of
film and the pacing suffers as a result. It wants to be an epic crime
drama but ultimately fails at this. 

Cinematography felt "normal", whatever that means. I guess it achieved
that 70's grainy feel successfully. The few action scenes were quite
well done and they had some zest. Too bad you I really didn't care
about the characters because the whole thing just felt so bland
overall. I think the film makers didn't want to take any risks with the
movie because everything was just so average down the line.
<|_=00=_|>
Blood is thicker than water is a proverb that might be out of place in
today's independent, and nuclear world. But the same is the heart and
soul of French-American crime thriller Blood Ties. The movie itself is
a remake of the 2008 French movie, Les IIens du sang by Jacques
Maillot, which in turn is an adaptation of a French novel by Bruno and
Michel Papet.

Two brothers on the opposite sides of the law is a plot done to death,
and almost invariably the brothers fatefully clash in a bitter end. Not
so in Blood Ties. On being released from prison, Chris tries to lead a
straight life, but is unable to do so, and soon goes back to his
criminal roots. This impacts his police brother Frank, but when faced
with a choice between his brother and his career, Frank, in a twist
from generic plots, chooses the former. The feeling is mutual, till the
end.

Blood Ties may not be a breakthrough movie in itself, but it is
powerful cinema nonetheless. Requires some patience as the plot builds
up. The setting is the hippie 70s, with big muscle cars, sideburns,
cocaine, and racism dotting the canvas. The eclectic cast consisting of
Clive Owen, Billy Crudup, Marion Cottiliard, Mila Kunis, James Caan,
Noah Emmerich, Zoe Saldana is on song. The carefully chosen musical
track adds to the experience. 

Even though there are the customary car chases, bank robberies, and
murders, this is not a big bang popcorn action flick. Rather a measured
crime drama, with realistic violence. Enjoyable when you are in the
mood for quality cinema- 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Too many period pieces miss a very important detail; If the movie is
set in the 70's then there should be brand new things just things from
that era. Too often you see people dressed for the time, but they are
using, or carrying antiques that just look like props. There is no
separation in this movie, you will feel like you are in New York in the
70's. The production team has done a fantastic job here in making
everything about this movie feel as though it was actually filmed in
that world, at that time. The acting is tight all around, this is a
blood is thicker than anything movie, and the family bonds are
stranger, and more dynamic than you will be expecting, which I found
very Enjoyable, and unique. This type of movie always draws a line in
the sand and says that one side is one way, and the other is opposite
of them, but in this movie you can see that it is far more unclear than
that, and people are more complicated, and surprising than we ever give
ourselves credit for. I give you this movie that I wish was mine to
give, so I recommend that you watch it when you get the chance, and
hope that that will do.

Jesse of www.jesse.ca
<|_=00=_|>
In 1974, in New York, the criminal Chris (Clive Owen) is released from
prison and his younger brother Frank (Billy Crudup), who is a honest
police officer, brings him home expecting that Chris is regenerated.
However after an incident, Chris returns to the life of crime,
affecting Frank's career and the lives of his ex-wife Monica (Marion
Cotillard) and his present wife Natalie (Mila Kunis). But when Chris
discovers that the criminal Scarfo (Matthias Schoenaerts) wants to kill
Frank that is living with his ex-wife Vanessa (Zoe Saldana), he has to
decide whether he flees or save his brother's life.

"Blood Ties" is a movie with an impressive cast and set decoration,
including several cars from the 70's. Unfortunately the story is an
unoriginal soap opera that wastes the cast. There are many movies with
brothers on the opposite sides of the law and the screenplay of "Blood
Ties" is not engaging and does not hold the attention of the viewer. My
vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "Laços de Sangue" ("Blood Ties")
<|_=00=_|>
(66%) A very convincing in terms of period detail crime drama featuring
a solid cast and a decent character based story that satisfies through
its toe- tapping soundtrack. Clive Owen has a truly fine on-screen
presence and he's really great in this, and because he and everyone
else are also good, along with the few nice bits of gripping and
intense action, meaning that the undebatable flaws in the script, and a
couple of minor issues here and there don't really matter that much.
This will likely get seen by about half as many people than it
deserves, but despite that, and for Mr Clive Owen especially, this is
worth a very nostalgic trip to the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
IF YOU EXPECT THIS TO BE A CLASSIC Hollywood GANGSTER MOVIE, YOU WILL
BE DISAPPOINTED! It's not, it's way more than that, it's almost
entirely based on the characters development. As the movie unfolds, we
learn more and more about the lives of the two brothers, and the
circumstances in which they keep finding each other, which makes it
very hard for them to connect on a brotherly level. The actors play
their roles to perfection, very believable, specially Clive Owen and
Marion Cotillard. The cast is exceptional and bring out the essence of
the period. I really enjoyed this movie from beginning to end, and I'm
glad it wasn't action based. I didn't find the 2 hours long like some
of the viewers, although I understand it's not for everybody who
usually expect more dynamical plot from a 70's movie.
