
No One Lives is the type of movie that starts as many others and
suddenly becomes something unexpected.

It is difficult to tell what happens without spoiling; but as in others
Ryûhei Kitamura movies, there is no Good vs Evil but Evil vs Evil. If
you never see any of his movies; get VERSUS before looking at this one.

Performances varies; Luke Evans is perfect; totally charismatic and
captivating. Derek Magyar is terrifying as a psycho meeting his match.
Laura Ramsey is pretty good as the other female characters; but
Adelaide Clemens disappoints in a complex character far above her
acting skills.

There is strong violence and gore but it never gets too disgusting (or
at least too realistic) and are lots of dark funny moments.
<|_=00=_|>
I've had my eye on No One Lives for a while and in that time I had
forged good expectations for the film. What more could an avid horror
fan want when such a solid cast gets paired up with one of the most
interesting horror directors in the biz in Ryûhei Kitamura, known
widely for his direction of the 2000 film "Versus" & more recently for
his 2008 "The Midnight Meat Train". So it seemed the film's success
would likely all come down to the quality of the script put forth by
first time writer David Cohen. 

This is definitely one of those films that is extremely hard to review
without spoiling things, so I will stick to relaying the most basic
plot line as possible. After botching their last job, a crew of
merciless, degenerate criminals encounter a man(Luke Evans) & his
girlfriend while eating at a restaurant. This spirals into a further
violent meeting between the two which get's more interesting as we come
to learn just where the real danger lies. The clash turns bloody as the
balance of power shifts & the gore begins to rain down.

Of course it helps to keep in mind that this is in fact a horror film
and that you're not going to witness any award winning performances,
but there are some really solid efforts given by Evans as the "Driver"
& Adelaide Clemens who plays Emma, a kidnap victim who has been
hardened by long lengths of mental & physical torture. There are a
couple of scenes that are sure to please the sickest of fans while at
the same time may seem a bit on the gory side to the average viewer,
but overall I felt this was a very enjoyable, entertaining vision
delivered by Kitamura. He lays down a few subtle nuances early in the
film that become clear to the audience later if you pay close
attention, the best being revealed near the end of the film.

As for the downside of the film, there were some real snags in the
script that I felt could have been changed and yes there are a few
holes in the plot, most of which were used primarily as a vehicle to
exploit certain plot developments. Or in one case to present one heck
of a bloody surprise, you'll know what I mean after you see it;]
Despite those problems, the film still managed to rise above the
average effort, but I believe that it was those weak script points that
hurt the film in theaters & the reason it may draw further criticism in
the future.

So in the end,if you're trying to decide if this will be a good pick
for your horror/gore itch then I can definitely recommend this as a top
choice, but if you're looking for a smart thriller with a well
developed story then this may not be your best choice, but I wouldn't
let it stop you from grabbing it from your local DVD kiosk.
<|_=00=_|>
As small budget films go, this movie is just plain fun. I enjoyed
midnight meat train for it's simplicity and effectiveness. Now,
understand that I love gory over the top flicks, and this is what you
get here. Say hurray for the bad guy cause there's plenty of that in
this. I imagine this will be on IFC at some point, and it's a great
midnight popcorn flick.

If "Taken" had been rated R and much more twisted, you'd come up with
this.. and for myself and many others, that's just what I'm looking
for.

For a look into the mind of the truly psychotic, I recommend giving
this fun ride a go.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not what you think. Yes it is a horror (thats for sure),
but it has a huge twist right near the start. I was watching this
thinking "This is pretty good, story is going well". Then all of a
sudden I was thinking "Wait! What the??". I don't want to give too much
away, but the story changes tact about 10 or so minutes into the film,
and I LIKED that a lot. The blood and gore factor in this is quite high
too, which again I LIKED a lot. The movie was better than I was
expecting for another WWE﻿ made horror, the last horror they made
(Barricade﻿) was below average in my opinion, but they've redeemed
themselves a bit with this film. The characters were actually played
well, especially the part of "Driver" played by Luke Evans﻿. There were
a couple of parts in the film that were cliché, but overall the film is
quite good. So I give it a good 7.5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
i was glued to the screen for this action packed horror right from the
beginning it grabs you into its violent and dark world, good acting
even if the blood looks a little fake,its at times quite gory so if
this bothers probably not a movie for you, however its highly
entertaining and fast paced which i like as sometimes these sorts of
movies get a little boring trying to draw out the suspense. it still
uses the slasher guide book so even if this is a variant don't expect
it to revolutionize anything, while the characters on the whole are all
rather unpleasant which is usually a bad thing for me i was not
bothered at all here, as well the name says it all. the ending leaves
room for a sequel which i would so watch if it was ever brought out.
<|_=00=_|>
When I am in the mood for a horror movie I usually want something with
a non confusing plot, decent acting , and good pacing. Thankfully this
had all 3. Yes there are some little small nit picks here and there but
as a whole this is a good end of the working week Friday night movie.
The story is pretty good but cannot be fully explained without spoiling
it which I do not want to do. I will start with the gore level, this
movie has gore but it is never over used to the point it is laughable
unlike so many recent horror movies. The performances are pretty good I
was only disappointed with a few line deliveries but I let them blow
over my head. The pace was perfect in my opinion it sets up a good
steady start, gets you asking questions and then the middle flows
perfectly into the end you are never left sitting tempted to forward it
onto the next death scene. All in all I would recommend this movie to
anyone who wants to be entertained for an hour an a half it is a movie
you can switch your brain off and relax, If anyone has any trouble
following the basic story then perhaps there at the age they shouldn't
be watching it. Give it a try put your feet up and prepare to be
entertained and satisfied as No One Lives does not disappoint!!
<|_=00=_|>
I very rarely review movies but this weekend, for totally opposite
reasons I have wanted to review two. This week I rented out both this
and also the Evil Dead remake.

The evil dead remake was an abomination. This however I thought was
superb. When you watch films about serial killers this is exactly the
sort of serial killer you want to see.

Its a very unusual film as the 'main' characters in this movie are all
detestable and you do not root for them. This leaves you in a situation
of not being sure how to take each scene of the movie. The thing is
however it works and this film is a rarity that is a must see.

I don't really want to say too much to give anything away. This film is
truly one of the best horror surprises I have seen in many years since
Tucker and Dale Vs Evil (which was a horror comedy).

To finally say I am not sure why WWE funded this movie as there are no
wrestlers in it. And its definitely not a family movie. On looking at
the gross this movie made it truly annoyed me as it deserved to be a
hit. Evil dead was soulless and terrible. This was ingenious and full
of life, energy and soul and yet it tanked in the box office. Just
shows Hollywood is never fair.
<|_=00=_|>
Ryuhei Kitamura made a film a little while called Midnight Meat Train
it starred Bradley Cooper, Leslie Bibb and Brooke Shields amongst a few
notable others, it was sensational and it is criminally under seen. And
it showed just what he could do with a budget. Unfortunately the movie
wasn't well received financially and has had a tough time finding it's
way to an audience. His first feature Versus had a much better fortune
but doomed with a low budget and shaky amateur direction it's a mixed
bag at best. His second US feature No One lives falls into the middle.
It sports a meaty, original concept a young couple find themselves
abducted by a group of hoodlums. When the female captive dies the
nameless male captive shows his true colors as he escapes and begins to
murder them systematically. You see what they discover when examining
his car is a young woman seemingly tortured whose been missing for the
past year or so and whose picture is all over the news as she is an
heiress to a large fortune. To say that the people have messed with the
wrong guy is a huge understatement. And although the film is
delightfully entertaining it also manages to somewhat explore the
complex relationships between captives and the ones holding them. At
times it feels a bit hokey and I'd be lying if I didn't say the acting
wasn't mostly horrible and the dialogue needed some major work. Still
Luke Evans makes for a sexy, delightful villain and although it falls
into a few genre trappings and some failed attempts at low budget
action it's a fun little gore flick with a surprising amount on it's
mind. I do think it's important to realize how much the film has been
affected by budgetary constraints and how influenced it is by Asian
films. That being said he delivered an uber stylized, wonderfully
stylish original horror flick with Midnight Meat Train and even though
this may be some what of a step back ward it's still entertaining
enough to merit a recommendation if you go in expecting exactly what is
a sometimes silly, original, thought provoking, entertaining, slightly
hammy horror flick thats equal parts awesome and unintentionally funny
at the same time. 3/5
<|_=00=_|>
Unexpectedly good plot and chain of actions keep you incensed during
the movie. I loved the cast. Luke Evans made the killer character the
one who you would enjoy watching whether he is chasing the girl,
killing or simply a loving gut. Charisma is felt in each scene. So in
this case its not a regular fat loser psychopath with a chain saw but
someone who nobody see as potential killer until you cross his line. He
is capable of love as well which is not a usual feature for a psycho.
It's not original and usual what makes you feel surprised while
watching it. You expect something ordinary while the scenery made its
own turn. 

It's not an outrageous type of big screen picture but definitely worth
watching. Leaves very good impression.
<|_=00=_|>
"No one lives" is a Ryūhei Kitamura Movie and he definitely did not
change his routine since "Versus", which is a known Japanese
splatter-movie. 

Throughout the movie you will see gore,gore and gore - did I mention
gore already ? Of course it can not be compared to movies like
Braindead or Story of Ricky because you always have the feeling that
the director is trying to do something serious. You are not supposed to
laugh at a victim, but not to cry either. A major flaw with "No one
lives" is a flaw many movies of this genre have - the characters are
puppets which were created to be slayed by a superior killer. Ryuhei
Kitamura introduces you to them, makes you shake hands and then shoots
them in the face infront of you, expecting your thought to be :,, Oh my
god is he insane ? How could he do that ? Poor, poor tough biker-guy!".
Instead you just sit there, infront of your TV, and think :,,Hmmm...
and another one." Another thing that really annoyed me is the
invincible killler. I know he's supposed to be like that, but why do I
always feel like watching a 22-year-old bad-ass Spetznas super-soldier,
when watching a slasher-movie ? 

After all the movie was okay and I rate it a 5* Movie. Not bad, but
nothing special either - as I said there are 1 or 2 twists and "That
was actually a good idea" moments in "No one lives", but all in all it
is nothing you haven't seen.
