
This is a really nice film with some great female roles in it. While
I'm not an expert on women (most men aren't), I thought this was a nice
depiction of living with your friends in one home. Growing up, but
still wanting someone to depend on. Being adult, but not taking
responsibilities for your actions. We've all been there. Is it funny
though? That depends on your sense of humor.

It's nice to see the girls having fun (and sorrow) with the trouble of
life (or "l!fe" as spelled in the title). Great acting then and some
nice story development help this movie be above average and if you let
it, it will entertain you.
<|_=00=_|>
The title says it all, when precautions aren't taken and risks weren't
evaluated, allowing the body to rule over the mind, and nine months
later, life happens. As the premise goes, Kim (Krysten Ritter) decided
to go ahead with her one night stand anyway when housemate and friend
Deena (Kate Bosworth) took the last piece of latex to fuel her own
carnal desires, and that lapse costs Kim dearly when she becomes mom to
Baby Max (played by Connor and Zachary Ross). This becomes the comedic
tale of single motherhood, friendship, romance and the likes, a pure
chick flick that walks the path of one's horror story during a moment
of indiscretion.

Kim certainly isn't cut out to being a mother, clearly without a proper
support structure in place save for housemates Deena and Laura (Rachel
Bilson), who between them juggle time to take care of Max in what would
be reminiscent of Three Men and a Baby. But of course this time juggle
wrecks havoc on every one's lives especially when they're at the
crossroads of their individual profession, and having baby at home
means less time outside for nights out, 

Directed by Kat Coiro who co-wrote the story with Krysten Ritter, which
they claim had a lot of their individual characters and traits put into
the characters of Kim and Deena, Life Happens plays out the typical
insecurities of the female, with the baby in it more for the gimmick.
As the central character in which the film revolves around, Kim shows
she's not all that perfect, willing to "disown" her child Max so that
she could have a shot at establishing a new relationship with Nicolas
(Geoff Stults) whom she met at a party, and learnt fleetingly of his
disdain for kids. And seriously her character is not all that likable
given that innate crutch to push Max to just about anyone to babysit,
while she schemes to get laid, to put it crudely.

While the film also tried to show the prejudices faced by single
mothers and the many challenges they have to conquer, the story throws
in Deena as the blonde who gets all the fun, with a career that is
taking of, and almost always in control over the relationships with the
opposite sex. And the scene during the double date was one of the best
as it exposes just about how close and chummy both Kim and Deena are,
and yet fully understanding each other's flaws and amplifying them just
to spite the other. Cat fight, someone?

The casting is a little bit strange and needed getting used to because
each of them don't really look too comfortable in their roles. Krysten
Ritter for the most parts looked like a dead ringer for Anne Hathaway,
while Kate Bosworth struggles as the alpha-female Deena. Perhaps the
most wasted of all characters here belonged to Rachel Wilson, who plays
the bimbo with questionable careers that don't seem to last, present
only to lend her star power, and to play up on her character's naivety
during her reality show participation as America's Last Virgin. And
with this being a chick flick, the male characters were nothing more
than one dimensional caricatures mostly portrayed as perfect studs, or
cads for not fulling understanding the plight of the woman.

Don't look toward this film for that silver bullet instructional
material on how to bring up a baby. It had some elements underlying its
point that parenting is a full time job made all the more difficult
when there is no support from a spouse, and literally sapping life out
of oneself in the care and development of another human being. It's
almost similar in treatment to another single mom film titled
Motherhood starring Uma Thurman, but this one had a lot more characters
involved in raising the baby, and having a bevy of good looking casts
in a comedy always helps.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nobody tells you it's gonna be so hard...Yes they do Kim, that's
pretty much all people say." Kim (Ritter) and Deena (Bosworth) are best
friends. They do everything together. One night when both bring home a
guy they discover a problem. One year later they are still best friends
but now Kim has a baby. Trying to balance work, friends and her love
life all around being a single mother turns out to be harder then she
expects. This is a very funny movie that is almost done like an Apatow
movie. The dialog is very witty and hilarious and keeps you laughing
throughout. The beginning of the movie made me feel (as a parent) a
little annoyed at Kim. It felt like she considered the baby a burden
and that she didn't really want him. Her feelings did change but that
part did bug me a little. Other then that and the movie being a little
predictable this was very very funny and I recommend this. You will not
be disappointed. I do have to say that this is more on the
"chick-flick" side of comedies this will appeal to both men and women.
I laughed all the way through. Overall, if you like the Apatow movies
you will like this one too. I give it a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
It showed up on my Netflix watchlist after devouring Krysten Ritter's
two seasons of highly entertaining Don't trust the B in apartment 23. I
was looking for a light girly movie and L!fe happens delivered. I
thought the story was surprisingly decent, and Krysten, Kate and even
Rachel were pretty good in their limited roles. I recommend it, it was
quite funny, girly, and for me at least a little thought-provoking
about single mothers without being too drama and tears about it. And of
course all the girls look gorgeous even with baby puke on them :) Nice
little movie about friendship, plans not working out, motherhood and
happy endings.
<|_=00=_|>
Kate Bosworth was great in the movie. Krysten Ritter was great as well.
Justin Kirk, who played Henri was great as well. And no he's not
French. Rachael Bilson was amazing. They could have made a movie on
just her. From Valley of Dolls to America's Last Virgin. She was
awesome. So what went wrong? The script didn't have enough development
in the relationships. Kim and Deena looked comfortable and their rapid
fire exchange showed they had great chemistry but it didn't happen
enough, which is why Bilson's character stood out the most since she
did it on her own. She was sweet, innocent, fun, kind, and sexy in a
sweet girl next door way. Then there's Nicolas and the baby. Why? The
story centers around this for a good portion of the movie then Kim
finds herself. This could have been Bridesmaid fun. Instead it ends up
being a movie that falls flat. It remembers me of Life as We Know It
and Friends with Kids. Both which are better than this. But I would
love to see Rachael Bilson, Kate Bosworth, Krysten Ritter, and Justin
Kirk do a spin off of sorts minus the baby and Nicolas. And Jason
Biggs? Wasted effort.
<|_=00=_|>
It's literally just watching nothing happen for an hour or two. The
girl "friends" are all horrible to each other and the characters are
completely uninteresting.

I pretty much only wrote this to say to stay away from this movie.. It
was terrible. 

And the worst bit of all was Rhys Coiro doing the most horrible
"Australian" accent ever. As an Australian myself, he failed worse than
abysmally. He sounded like a really odd Kiwi if anything. UGH.
Cringeworthy. All of it.

Don't bother.
<|_=00=_|>
Life Happens was a last minute choice on Netflix after my wife I
desperately looked for something to watch. I wasn't much looking
forward to it even though I enjoy the three women in the lead. Well I
eat my hesitation because Life Happens was wonderful. It's a dark
comedy, some great chemistry in the cast and some definitive emotional
moments. The film isn't without its faults. It definitely is low budget
and some of the writing is a little rushed and they could have
developed some of the supporting characters more and I even think the
drama/comedy balance is just a tad off at times. I guess when I think
Krysten Ritter I mostly think of comedy but that isn't to say she
doesn't absolutely nail this dramatic role. I guess the only negative I
have to say about the film is that I felt there could be more to it and
that isn't much negative at all. It is a fantastic film and very well
made in the indie world.

Krysten Ritter's star is starting to shine bright. She's been in the
Hollywood spotlight for awhile but Jessica Jones really catapulted her.
For me it was Breaking Bad following by the deliciously satirical Don't
Trust the B$%#^ But in this film she co-write with the director and
just really sinks her teeth into this role. She definitely leads every
scene and really makes you care about her character more than the
others. Kate Bosworth to me seemed like an odd choice as Ritter's
counterpart but they actually have really good chemistry. Bosworth is
really good as the best friend who never had to grow up much thanks to
not having gotten pregnant. Both of them have good story arcs and while
I would have liked to have seen a little more development to her
character, she does very well. Rachel Bilson gets the short end of the
stick. I felt like she could have been more and done more especially in
the laughs area. I didn't even realize she was supposed to "virginal"
which would have made a lot of the jokes money funny early on. She also
didn't get a lot of time with the other girls so she gets left out a
lot. Geoff Stults does a good job as Ritter's love interest. I always
find him a little cheesy but he works for this and actually gives a
decent performance with little development. Jason Biggs also makes a
small and almost lack luster performance as well. Justin Kirk was
actually really good in a comedic, ridiculous way and I loved his story
with Bosworth.

This is such a great "chick flick" I think directed by Kat Coiro whose
other film A Case Of You was a decent indie movie as well. This isn't
your typical rom-com and actually has some real meat behind it and some
really good morals and things to learn and I think especially young
parents can enjoy the concept behind it. It has enough laughs to keep
it light and enough drama to make you remember it afterwards. Its one
of those films that no one saw when it got made (2011 in this case) and
it won't be topping any charts but it's still worth seeing!! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Kim (Krysten Ritter) and Deena (Kate Bosworth) were party girls, but
Kim is now a single mom. The surfer douche dad is leaving town, and
she's spinning her wheels. She dreams of starting a doggy mall, and
just wants to have a little bit fun. Their roommate is the
over-sexualized religious virgin Laura (Rachel Bilson).

I like all three ladies in this movie. They just don't have enough
funny written jokes. Kat Coiro has professional directing skills for a
novice. It's the lack of joke writing skills from Kat Coiro and Krysten
Ritter that is problematic. It's as if they expect the premise to be
good enough to make the audience laugh. Rachel Bilson's character is
kinda funny, but she's just one joke. Kim and Deena have some chemistry
but never really takes off as a comedic duo. And then there's the
unnatural ending all perfectly wrapped up.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very bothered by the way the child Max was constantly portrayed
as being inconvenient and in the way and even to the point he must be
denied and lied about because this boy-crazy chick who refuses to grow
up can still go out, get drunk, chase and bed men like she did before
she screwed up and got knocked up by some dead-beat because she was
more concerned about getting laid.

The scene where she yells at her roommate for not being there to
baby-sit "forcing" her to hire a 12 year old to baby-sit her toddler
enraged me. All these people are despicable, the 3 leads, her boss, the
guy and his friends (although the main male lead is the least
despicable, he is merely reacting to the psychotic girl LYING about
having a baby).

This is a terrible movie that panders to the entitled millenial brat
who still lives with her irresponsible roommates, goes out to run after
men and get drunk and laid at every opportunity and bitches she can't
do it more.

When you have a child that part of your life is over. Deal with it.
Your libido is also less important than taking care of your kid. Quit
whinging and focusing on your supposed social life problems and focus
on raising your kid. And btw the 'love-life' advice by her friend is
horrendous as well, all about the stupid trope that keeping guys
jealous and on edge by playing games and lying to them is the way to
"trap" them. Ugh.

Terrible on every level. Then she "grows up" and finally moves out, but
not before quitting her job spontaneously, but thankfully good old Dad
is there to finance her moving into a huge, expensive apartment, so she
still hasn't grown up or accepted any responsibility, she's just
playing a new fantasy. 

I threw up in my mouth a little then and had to stop watching. The
self-regard and self-entitlement is so thick, her Dad actually had to
work so she can live her little fantasy, trading the party girl for an
upscale young mom subsidized by her Dad for cripe's sake.

Be nice if they made movies realistic so that young girls might
understand the real upsides, downsides and responsibilities of
motherhood instead of these idealized judd apatoe fantasies. Getting
rich from writing Sex in the City type self-help columns is another
gag-worthy fantasy. This movie has is all, even a slutty virgin who
dresses like a whore in nearly every scene, so, enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
"Life Happens" is a tedious, unfunny comedy film about a young woman
who has been stuck with motherhood because she loses an argument for
the last condom in the box. Foolishly, she has sex anyway, leaving her
with an adorable little tot, and leaving us stuck with her.

She meets a dreamy hunk and lies about being childless. She has a
falling out with her best friend over the latter's lack of total
support for her situation. She gets in trouble with her boss for
bringing her baby to work. And so on.

There are countless real issues that plague single parents. After
watching "Life Happens", I don't feel like I've seen any of them. The
movie has a light-hearted treatment of its issue which feels better
suited to a rom-com. The child is a prop who exists so that we can see
Ritter carrying him awkwardly from place to place.

The movie largely avoids any tender scenes between mother and baby.
This would have been key to making the audience care about the
protagonist, but the movie is more than happy to keep us at bay with
lame sitcom dialogue and contrived situations. Eg.: Ritter has lied
that her friend, played by Kate Bosworth, is really her son's mother,
so of course there is a scene where they are together with the person
she has lied to and have to keep the charade going, even though
Bosworth isn't keen on the idea, and they both start passive
aggressively insulting each other by insulting themselves.

Was there ever a sitcom which didn't use this situation?

The movie does have one scene that showed me something I hadn't seen
before. Ritter is in bed with a guy who gropes her (unseen) breasts,
and gets a spray of milk in the face.
