
Entering the cinema auditorium with a pre-conceived pessimistic
judgment on the film yet determined to watch it anyways, I can only say
that I am glad that I had not allowed for media and critic opinion to
dissuade me from watching "Diana." The film does not portray Diana in a
bad way at all. If anything, it reiterates the absolute disgusting
habits our press have had in terms of absolute disregard and disrespect
for people's privacy. You feel a certain connection with Diana
throughout the film, and see her for the "normal person" she was deep
down. Naomi Watts' performance was spectacular, and she certainly did
Diana justice. Although the film is most certainly disliked by many -
i.e: the media, Islamophobes and daily mail readers... It is disliked
for the mere fact that the film provides an insight into things that
make certain people very uncomfortable, such as the prospect of the
Princess of Wales marrying to a Pakistani Muslim, and the fact that
Diana was actually a human being, with feelings, and with a difficult
life. 

So all I can say is, ignore the media, and make judgements for
yourself. Perhaps after watching the film, you would rate it as highly
as I have, or perhaps you may walk out half way through... Regardless,
it's a fantastic film with a beautiful portrayal of the 'People's
Princess'... Be warned: Take some Kleenex with you...The ending... is
rather emotional
<|_=00=_|>
This film took me by surprise due to all the negativity surrounding it.
It actually turned out to be a decent film that I enjoyed. I've always
loved Naomi Watts and she pulls of a great performance. So she doesn't
look exactly like Diana - what actress does? Diana was very unique
looking and Naomi is definitely the right person for the role.

Naveeen Andrews also pulled a strong performance and the film had good
pacing and never got dull. The film was respectable to Diana and I
liked how they ended the film.

Please do not judge the film before seeing it. The British press were
never going to praise this film. Well done Naomi.. you should be proud
of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie almost without any expectations. Granted, in
my mind, Naomi Watts's performance in "Mulholland Dr." was exceptional,
but that was over ten years ago, so I made a deliberate effort not to
compare the roles. I had not seen any reviews and did not know anything
about the movie, except its title character. I knew the main outlines
of Diana's life and had seen some of her interviews, although I was
more familiar with her death. Thus I had no opinion of Diana herself,
except that I had heard a little of her famous charity work. With these
things in mind I went to the theater. To me the movie was excellent.
The atmosphere was enchanting and at times haunting. Watts played Diana
like a shape shifter, matching her every move when the character
presented herself to the media, while breaking her facade in private.
She portrayed tons of difficult emotion that had to convey an
aristocratic filter created by the character's upbringing. Diana's life
was presented as a complex mixture of personal and public, feelings and
constraints, that lead to her being slowly crushed by the outside
pressures she could not control. The movie's purpose was obviously
apolitical and tried to convey Diana's driving force that was
interpreted in the movie as love. It succeeded in this very
convincingly. The credit for this goes not only to Watts, but also the
director Oliver Hirschbiegel (who, I now notice, directed "Der
Untergang", an exceptional film in its own right) and Naveen Andrews,
who played his role with credibility and originality. Altogether I
found the movie to be on-par with the best biographical dramatizations
in film, even coming close to "King's Speech".

Now that I had seen the film, and had been thoroughly impressed by it,
imagine my surprise when I tuned in on IMDb. At this moment the score
was 4.9. I immediately noticed a pattern. Of all the 2900 voters 446
(15.4 %) had voted 1. In fact the value 1 dominated the chart, being
the most frequent vote of all the values. I interpreted this is a
symptom of pure ignorance. Obviously the movie is not the worst of all
time, like for example "The Room", "Manos: The Hands of Fate" or "Plan
9 from Outer Space". There in fact seems to be an almost organized
effort to trash the movie. I do not think this has much to do with the
film itself, but is a continuation of the politicization of Diana's
life. I would recommend, when reading reviews, to recognize the critics
who judge the film based on their own preconceived notions and those
who judge the film on its own merits.

My score for "Diana" is between 8 and 9, which rounds it up to 9.
<|_=00=_|>
The last few years of Diana's tragic life post separation and divorce
is depicted in this biopic. It is fascinating, voyeuristic and quite
moving. 

Good points: Naomi Watts acts well. She has a satisfactory Diana accent
and good imitations of her facial expressions. She captured Diana's
essence despite being much more petite in build and having more
delicate facial features than Diana. Good effort to recreate famous
photographic moments and wardrobe and clothes. Physical resemblance
isn't a must. After all Helen Mirren doesn't look like the Queen but
she still won an Oscar. So Naomi's portrayal should be nominated at
least.

The story highlights Diana's efforts in the campaign against land
mines. And it gives her life a meaningful legacy. The hounding of the
press and photographers, and her intimate daily life are fascinating to
watch. Also the tragedy of her personal isolation and quest for
happiness are very moving. 

There are some faults. The balance of the screenplay was off when it
came to her romantic life. Other TV biopics have shown the
disintegration of her marriage but not so much the later relationships.
However in this movie too much was spent on the affair with Dr Hasnat
Khan. Naveen Andrews wasn't dignified enough for the role of a
specialist doctor. He seemed crude and coarse. Quite disturbing to see
her in his squalid flat. More screen time on the relationship with Dodi
Al Fayed would have helped show contrast and give a more complete
picture about her last months. The scenes on the yacht and Ritz Hotel
are nicely done and should have been longer.

Overall worth a watch for the perennially fascinating subject matter.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the film 'Diana' this afternoon and can honestly say I
thoroughly enjoyed it. The film took me on a very convincing journey
into what it must have been like for Diana as she struggled with coming
to terms with her own inner conflicts (eg the feeling that she was
destined always to be an 'outsider' to whatever family she aspired to
belong to) while striving to rebuild a life for herself after
separating from Prince Charles and to find the love she so desperately
yearned for. The story is by turns happy and sad. I found myself
smiling for Diana when things were going well, heartbroken when they
weren't. Naomi Watts does an absolutely amazing job of portraying
Diana. Her's is undoubtedly the weightiest role in the film and she
puts her heart and soul into it with a wonderfully nuanced performance.
Naveen Andrews playing the part of Dr Hasnat Khan also deserves much
credit. Other actors and actresses played lesser roles, but all were
well cast and contributed significantly as members of Diana's remaining
'entourage' (some also in roles as 'confidants'). Cinematography,
location photography, interiors, sets, music and directing were all
excellent. I've never been much of a 'royalty follower', but having
seen this film I feel I know a lot more about Diana, her day to day
life, and the last love of her all too short life. Don't be put off by
low ratings (or negative reviews) - this is a moving and well made
film. Highly recommended. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I hardly write reviews but the average rating of this movie forced and
compelled me to sign in and write one for this one. I have been waiting
for this one since its production days and now that I finally managed
to watch it, I am really surprised to see it has been rated so low on
average. The film is great and I loved it. Naomi has done a wonderful
job especially with her expressions and her accent. She did justice to
the character. Nobody other could have done Diana's character in such a
magnificent, delicate and magnificent way. It was because of this movie
that I was so touched that I watched Diana's interview with BBC once
again after so many years. I compared Naomi's impressions of Diana
during that very interview and she was just amazing. It's a beautiful
film and the cast has done an amazing job. It doesn't happen very often
that the admirers and fans of a famous personality can be pleased by
someone else by being the same. Naomi did that successfully.
<|_=00=_|>
I never read reviews before I watch a film because I want no
preconceived ideas of the quality of what I'm watching. I prefer to
make those decisions on my own. I can see now that is a very good
policy. Reading some of the reviews after having seen Diana I was
shocked because I found the film to be a terrific portrayal of Princess
Diana by Naomi Watts. Yes, Watts is truly a good actress and also a
beautiful woman. Yes, she is much shorter than Diana and, therefore,
perhaps not quite as elegant; but she couldn't have done a better job I
don't believe. 

I think most people were disappointed because Watts did the
unthinkable; she didn't bring Diana back from the grave. Diana is STILL
dead. She did, however, very nicely portray Diana as a real person with
real feelings and much of the film was very surprising if the writers
have guessed accurately about the actual conversations which took place
between Diana and the supporting cast. I liked the person Diana in the
film, whom Watts created, even if that isn't truly the REAL Diana, it's
a way I'd like to remember her. We will never really know for sure,
will we?
<|_=00=_|>
I can understand why Diana might be a disappointment for most.

If one is after a detailed portrait of "The Loneliness of the
Disaffected Princess" then this film will only partially fulfill. 

If, however, one is after a simple, easy to watch love story about the
affair so well hidden from the public eye in the 18 months prior to her
sudden death, then fulfilled you shall be.

The disappointment for me came from the fact Diana's director, Oliver
Hirschbiegel, created Downfall, the depiction of Hitler's final days.
The film was an Oscar nominee, a deserved reward for its depth. Diana
is his first foray into a love story. He talks of his research coming
from the 2004 inquiry and The Kate Snell book of the affair. I suggest
that the details coming from those sources was light and frothy.

The film is pleasant enough with a shallowness to match a children's
wading pool, but as I say, it depends on what you are expecting. Oh,
and Naomi Watts is lovely but not quite as beautiful as The Princess we
remember!
<|_=00=_|>
On paper, DIANA had everything going for it: the biopic had lined up
one of the finest actresses working today for the title role (Naomi
Watts), and paired her with a serious-minded director (Oliver
Hirschbiegel) who had turned Adolf Hitler's final days into a gripping,
powerful drama (Downfall)... there was even a precedent set by The Iron
Lady, which proves that a biopic can be mediocre and/or take liberties
with its subject and still provide room to think, feel, and appreciate
the pure strength and power of the performances on display. Not so with
DIANA, sadly.

Watts plays the tragically doomed people's princess just as her
marriage to Prince Charles is properly disintegrating. Left with a
husband in name but not in fact, Diana tries to figure out how to
redefine herself independently of her estranged Royal Family. The
answer, apparently, is to fall in love with heart surgeon Hasnat Khan
(Naveen Andrews), who inspires her to do more and better with the media
attention lavished so excessively upon her.

The senseless tragedy of Diana's death in a car accident, hunted down
by media to her very end, looms large over the entire film, as well it
should - but it's not the only tragedy that befalls it. That dubious
honour belongs to Stephen Jeffreys' script, which is full of
unrealistic characters and ponderous dialogue. For all of Watts'
valiant efforts, there isn't much wit and soul to her Diana. The
cunning ingenuity she displays in her battle against the Royal Palace
in the first ten minutes of the film fades away rather too quickly,
leaving her to be defined almost entirely in terms of a soppy, soapy
love story that never really takes flight.

Any depth of character or charitable intent that she's given is
connected to her growing love for Hasnat: a reductive and regrettable
approach if ever there was one. It doesn't help that Hasnat is
portrayed in so frustrating a way. Andrews is just as hamstrung by the
script as Watts, forced to deliver painfully awkward and stilted lines
while playing some kind of spoilt man-child who alternates between
throwing tantrums and pleading for Diana to understand the inexplicable
predicament he believes himself to be in.

Anyone searching for depth and complexity here will be sorely
disappointed. DIANA provides few, if any, real insights into a public
figure who suffered some of the greatest slings, arrows and
presumptions attributable to media speculation and persecution. Rather
than clearing away some of those cobwebs and claptrap, this
melodramatic biopic adds to them: reducing a complex, troubled human
being trapped in extraordinary circumstances to the shallow,
unsympathetic female lead in a badly-written, utterly banal romantic
drama. If there were a greater tragedy than Diana's untimely death,
it's the fact that she's forced to live on in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a beautiful film. I really enjoyed because I had no
expectations. For me this is a love story not the greatest but it
touched me. Naomi Watts was great as always and you can really feel the
chemistry between the actors. People say what was the point of this
film ?? the point was to give us a glimpse of Diana s life not the
whole story of course. You really get to see it through her eyes. How
she struggles with being an official person and what comes with that. I
do not think Naomi made a mistake by taking this roll because she did a
great job. Yes Naomi has the worst wig ever in this film! but who cares
just enjoy the great acting and the love story/Murre Macca
