
There's got to be something magical at work here. Strictly speaking,
there isn't a shred of anything remotely original in Southpaw's DNA.
Boil the narrative down to its bare bones, and it's a tried-and-tested,
tried-and-tired retread of the sports movie. It's not even
metaphorically about getting back up after life knocks you down -
that's literally the plot of the film. And yet, through Antoine Fuqua's
sensitive direction, Kurt Sutter's punchy dialogue and some excellent
performances, Southpaw somehow transcends its own generic limitations.

We meet the scrappy Billy Hope (Jake Gyllenhaal) at the height of his
career as a boxer. He's the undefeated champion of the world in his
category, and after each match, he gets to drag his broken, bruised
body home to his doting wife Maureen (Rachel McAdams) and adorable
daughter Leila (Oona Laurence). It's a far better life than a kid born
and raised on the streets could have hoped for. But, one terrible day,
tragedy strikes. Practically overnight, Billy loses everything: his
career, his lifestyle, and his family. Trapped by grief, depression and
his grim circumstances, Billy must fight hard to get back on his feet
and recover what he can of his old life.

From an objective standpoint, Southpaw is almost breathtakingly old-
fashioned and unoriginal. You've definitely seen it all before -
arrogant athlete suffers an ignominious setback, and must gain some
humility and a better understanding of the more important things in
life before he can complete his journey towards redemption. Sutter's
script seems to almost thrive on its many clichés. He saddles his
protagonist with the weighty and completely unsubtle surname of Hope.
When all seems bleak, Billy's scheming agent Jordan Mains (Curtis '50
Cent' Jackson) deserts him for his chief rival. Billy acquires a gruff
but trustworthy mentor in the form of Tick Wills (Forest Whitaker). The
film has even forgotten to explain - or take into account - its title,
which refers to a stance adopted by left- handed boxers in the ring.

And yet, for all its flaws, Southpaw is a compelling, touching and
surprisingly truthful effort. Fuqua tackles the predictable elements of
the story with such verve and sensitivity that he manages to make them
more palatable. The director unearths the gnawing heartbreak in Billy's
anguish, as he visits a daughter who has grown cold and unresponsive
towards him. The relationship that develops between Billy and Tick has
its obligatory share of training montages, but also features moments of
genuine connection between the two men, as they drink, mourn and bond
with each other.

Though it never becomes what you might call a classic, Southpaw
occasionally flirts with greatness. That's due almost entirely to its
cast. McAdams channels her trademark sunshine and charm into a
relatively thankless supporting role. Her energy and chemistry with
Gyllenhaal add invaluable weight to the emotional stakes in the film,
lingering long after each of her scenes with her on-screen husband.
Whitaker, who could play his part in his sleep, thankfully doesn't do
so. Instead, he's very present, suggesting a darker inner life to his
character that's fascinating to watch. Laurence, meanwhile, is a great
find. She plays every aspect of Leila - her innocence and
vulnerability, as well as her resentment and steely determination -
with a piercing, heartbreaking truthfulness.

The main draw, however, is Gyllenhaal, and for very good reason.
Frankly, no one would have expected him to take the part of Billy Hope,
which had originally been designed with rapper Eminem in mind. And yet,
Gyllenhaal once again proves with Southpaw, as he has done with his
consistently bold and off-kilter career choices, that he might very
well be the finest actor of his generation. In a complete turnaround
from his skeletal look in last year's Nightcrawler, he's practically
unrecognisable as the beefed-up, mumbly Billy, burying his own slim
frame and fine bone structure beneath layers of weight and muscle.
Beyond the physical transformation, however, are Billy's darker demons.
It's here where Gyllenhaal excels, as Billy taps into, releases and,
ultimately, learns to temper the almost blinding rage that both drives
and traps him.

Truth be told, there are better movies out there about boxing and/or
redemption. This isn't Rocky, much less Raging Bull. But, somehow,
Southpaw pulls off that weird, difficult trick of being predictable but
compelling at the same time. The ending may never be in doubt, but
there's a certain pleasure to be derived from the journey. If all else
fails, watch this for Gyllenhaal, who's currently doing some of the
best, most vital work of his career.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess there is just no new way of telling this story. A boxer on top
of his world loses everything in the blink of an eye, then battles his
way back. Every trite plot wrinkle is there. Every sympathy trigger is
there. The writing is not bad. The story is as well told as it can be,
but the story just does not need to be told again. 

Jake was great. His transformation from the pale, ghoulish
"Nightcrawler" to a ripped pro boxer is startling. His portrayal of the
punchy, brutal fighter on a journey of redemption is every bit as good
as one could expect. Top marks for Jake. And the boxing scenes are as
bloody as you could ask.

So there are some good things in a very predictable movie. Overall, go
ahead and watch it and enjoy it for what it is. Just don't expect
anything new.
<|_=00=_|>
Southpaw follows Billy "The Great" Hope, the reigning junior
middleweight boxing champion, having an impressive career, a loving
wife and daughter, and a lavish lifestyle. However, when tragedy
strikes, Billy hits rock bottom, losing his family, house and manager.
He soon finds an unlikely savior in Tick Willis, a former fighter who
trains the city's toughest boxers. With his future on the line, Hope
fights to reclaim the trust of those he loves the most.

Antoine Fuqua has most certainly brought his charm back into the ring
by bringing a fascinating boxing drama to the big screen. Even though
it may have a all to familiar plot when it comes to the formulaic
boxing aspect, this film really smooths out well with such heavenly
storytelling, we are given a accurate accusation of how something can
affect someone in the hardest way possible.

Jake Gyllenhaal giving a ferocious performance as a down on his luck
boxer was truly a grand experience. He really stuck to his character by
bringing such a mad man to the ring and a man who would strive to make
his family a whole once again, one wondrous performance I must say. One
person other than Jake that really stood out was Forest Whitaker, he
easily gave one of the best performances of this year so far!

The boxing scenes were so enthralling, they involved such wall-to-wall
burst of punches with spraying blood and Fuqua's gutsy camera skills
that keep you motived the whole time. Jake snorting like a mad bull, he
surely brought out the horns to each opponent with a raging force,
these scenes were just so highly entertaining that they made your heart
pumping with such adrenaline. 

I was not bored at all with Southpaw, I was invested the whole time.
Even with its clichés, the film surely beats them down with mighty
performances by its lead and supporting cast and cosmic storytelling.
The drama was foretold fluently with a good take at how a family can
fall apart and reconnect in such a turn of events, I loved that, it
flowed along so ideally with a strong tone. In the end, SP is surely a
spellbinding film towards a strong man that doesn't get knocked down by
what life has to swing at him!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to catch an advance screening of this movie, and I
was extremely glad I did. After watching the previews I felt as though
a lot of the movie was given away, but I was blown away by the
performances on screen. The movie was centered around a champion prize
fighter hitting rock bottom, and slowly climbing his way back into the
ring. It was an emotional journey that cannot simply be categorized as
a movie about boxing, but rather, an inspiring and riveting tale of
parenthood and a father's love for his daughter. The cast was excellent
and everyone excelled in their roles. I wouldn't have expected to like
Curtis "50 Cent" Jackson in a role as much as I did. Jake Gyllenhaal
and Forest Whitaker had Oscar worthy performances. Everyone did a great
job with their roles. The cinematography was fantastic, and the fight
scenes gave some great first person shots that made you feel as though
you were there in the ring fighting along side the actors. Overall,
this movie is an experience that is not to be missed. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Hope is the light heavyweight champion of the world with a 43-0
record. One day, as a result of his uncontrollable violent temper,
tragedy after tragedy hits him and his family until he is left with
nothing -- not his fortune, not his career, not his family. Despondent
and desperate to get his life back, Billy swallows his pride and seeks
the assistance of trainer Tick Wills to train him back to fighting
form.

"Southpaw" is an acting showcase for its lead actor Jake Gyllenhaal.
Last year in the film "Nightcrawler", Gyllenhaal gave us all the creeps
with his very realistic portrayal of sociopathic pseudo-video
journalist Louis Bloom. He was overlooked at the Oscars of the Best
Actor nomination he clearly deserved. With this meaty role, Gyllenhaal
set out to prove that that his transformative performance last year was
not a fluke at all.

His performance here as Billy Hope is another triumph of his very
serious and committed method acting style. Here, Gyllenhaal again
undergoes a total physical transformation into a grizzled prizefighter
with a buff hardened physique, scarred face and swollen eye. We feel
every ache of his weary body as he shuffles in his gait. His speech is
already slurred with probable nerve damage. We see and sense the
ravages of his vicious sport on him.

He captured the character of an impulsive man who was not too savvy in
life, and easily driven to violently angry tendencies. As Billy's world
collapses around him, Gyllenhaal brings us all down to his hell with
him. We totally see the unraveling of a man until a mere shadow of him
remained. Then we would witness how he humbles himself as he tries to
bring the shattered pieces of his life back together again. This was in
addition to all the pounding he had in the boxing ring itself. This was
truly an acting tour de force by Gyllenhaal which simply cannot be
ignored.

The actors in supporting roles all share in Gyllenhaal's shine. Despite
her name being so prominent in the poster, Rachel McAdams appeared on
screen only for a very short time. In that limited time, we clearly see
the effect of her strong character Maureen on her husband Billy.
Bespectacled little Oona Laurence plays their spirited daughter Leila.
Gyllenhaal and Laurence share some pretty intensely emotional scenes
together.

Forest Whitaker plays Tick Wills, the tough disciplinarian of a trainer
whom Billy chose to bring him back on track. I thought it was clever
how they even include Whitaker's left eye into the story. Curtis "50
Cent" Smith plays Billy's fair-weather manager Jordan Mains. He really
has this sleazy vibe about him with his flashy smile and shiny suits.

Director Antoine Fuqua effectively wrung all the right emotions out of
this story. The storytelling is well-paced and the camera work is
compelling. The fight scenes were well-choreographed and executed on
screen -- very brutal, bloody, all with high tension. The first person
point of view during the fights puts you right in the midst of all the
action.

The musical score contributes so much to the drama of this film. This
is also the last film James Horner scored before his untimely demise in
a plane crash recently. We also hear Eminem rap in the soundtrack. It
is interesting to note that Eminem was actually the original choice to
play Billy Hope.

Boxing is a common sport tackled in movies because of its inherent
drama. "Rocky", "Raging Bull", "Million Dollar Baby" and "The Fighter"
easily come to mind as among the best of them ever made. This is why we
may feel we have seen this story In "Southpaw" told in another way
before. However, the grippingly honest acting of Jake Gyllenhaal
definitely set this film apart from others. He made "Southpaw" a most
extraordinary boxing film to watch. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's start by saying what everyone else was thinking: "What else is
new?" We have all seen this movie before. It follows the very
uninspired formula that Hollywood has been using for years now; there
is nothing cutting edge about the premise of Southpaw. 

Where it defied expectation was in its raw emotion. Everything that
makes Southpaw good lies in the performance of the entire cast. Jake
Gyllenhaal, in particular, simply could not have been more exceptional.
His portrayal of loss, victory, sorrow, shame, anger, guilt, and love
were unbearably palpable, and made the movie an intensely uncensored
work. This is a performance you simply CANNOT pass up. I also
appreciated the ways in which the last boxing scene was shot. It takes
the grueling perspective of Billy Hope himself and his competitor. That
camera angle put the viewer in the closest possible position of the two
boxers while in a fight which made the scene all the more terrifying
and all the more wicked awesome. 

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Yeah yeah.. We all have seen at least
18 movies of a successful man losing everything that could ever
possibly matter to him; however, the difference is that never have I
experienced it more vividly than in Southpaw. Props to Gyllenhaal again
for making me feel things that most actors will continue to fail to do.
<|_=00=_|>
As a previous fighter, this movie is a disappointment. The movie
stereotypes boxers as hyper-aggressive characters who need vice and
aggressive behavior to handle the short comings thrown their way.
Gyllenhaal's performance was pretty impressive in contrast to his
previous roles, however it does not save the movie from its bad writing
and directing. Although some of the boxing sequences aren't bad, some
of them are awful and some are impressive, good fight sequences don't
make a story great, and for that matter, a movie.

The movie just doesn't have a very credible story, as Billy Hope
accepts fights as early as 4 weeks away from one another, not nearly
enough time to actually prepare for a new opponent. His wife takes on
the "momma knows best role" as she makes the majority of decisions for
him and his family, including their decision for Him to stop fighting,
and when she is accidentally shot, Hopes life spirals out of control.
After engaging in a spree of self- destructive behavior, CPS takes
custody of his child until he can prove that he is a responsible adult.
Normally, this would imply that the movie should be about the Hero
overcoming and conquering himself and his aggressive habits. He is
instructed to go to Anger Management classes, which are not present in
the film, and gets suspended from professional boxing after
head-butting a referee, after his corner throws the towel in for a
fight. 

After losing his luxurious lifestyle from not having the cash to pay
for his bills, he finds a new gym that is ran by Tick Wills (Forest
Whitaker) so that he may teach young men how to box in hopes that it
will lead them to grow up and become responsible men. Billy Hope cleans
the gym at night for a job and trains with Tick in the mornings so that
he can improve his image and possibly get a few side fights. After
fighting for a charity event, Hope's agent (50 cent) finds him yet
again pressuring him to get back into the ring, that he can get his
suspension lifted and makes a $30 million offer to fight Miguel Escobar
only 6 weeks away, a disgustingly short amount of time away to prepare
for a fight. Understandably, these quick fights are supposed to
represent the greed of his Agent making money, but fights like this at
the professional level, at the championship level do not happen this
quickly, ever.

Billy Hope takes the offer and continues to train with Tick Wills, but
for this upcoming fight, it's back to fundamentals. During a montage
with Eminem in the background, Billy Hope is working on basic things
like stance, bobbing and weaving, blocking punches, blocking punches
with your shoulder and other very basic things like that you couldn't
have previously won a championship without, that apparently Billy Hope
did. Meanwhile, Miguel Escobar is doing hardcore ab-workouts, and going
hard on a double-ended bag, things that real professionals work on,
also things that you couldn't otherwise do at that speed, without
previously working on basic things like Billy is currently working on.
Billy also works on boxing Southpaw upon Ticks suggestion.

Night of the fight, Billy and Miguel go at it, it is a very close one,
and of course Billy Hope is hit with a low blow and whenever Miguel
can't win the round, he mentions something to Billy about his wife
which causes him to get very angry. Round 12 comes around and after a
long round Billy connects and then connects again with a left handed
uppercut.

The movie shouldn't be named "Southpaw" just on the premise that the
winning punch was left handed. I really thought I was coming in to see
a really awesome Southpaw performance out of Jake Gyllenhal, as those
fighters give a different dynamic to a fight; Southpaws screw everybody
up, even other Southpaw fighters, because everyone is used to fighting
right-handed fighters. I give this movie a 5 because it plays on
stereotypically, hyper-aggressive male behavior in boxers, and because
the story just wasn't very credible. Impressive fight- sequences don't
save a movie from the use of too many melodramatic scenes of one on one
dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
This will be short, Southpaw is about as straightforward as you would
expect from a boxing movie. A once great fighter falls into despair
only to be given another chance at redemption in some sort of title
fight. This movie hit just about every single plot point you would
expect it to. And that's what makes Southpaw feel so dull and
unengaging, it holds too few surprises. He gets beaten down again and
again only to find redemption later in the movie just as expected. This
is the type of movie where if you've seen the trailer, you've seen the
movie, period!

But to no surprise, however, Jake Gyllenhaal is the saving grace of the
movie (the 5/10 score would certainly be lower if he had not been in
this movie). He is physically committed (looks like a complete beast),
but is also able to bring the necessary emotional state the character
required. If he had not been in the movie, this would have been a
complete disaster. He totally fit the role of the down on his luck
boxer, but more importantly hit the role of the damaged father even
better. And even though we know exactly what is coming to our 'hero',
the performance by Gyllenhaal makes it seem a tad more enjoyable.

At the end of the day, you've seen a ton of movies like Southpaw. You
could probably predict the ending of the story based on the trailers
alone. Even though Jake Gyllenhaal gives it his all, the movie can't
help but fail because of the extremely generic script.

Instead, go watch The Wrestler again!
<|_=00=_|>
As with most sports dramas, Southpaw is a film more about the man than
the sport. Labelled by many as the 'modern day Raging Bull', I had high
hopes for Southpaw and thanks to Jake Gyllenhaal, it duly delivered.
This is a tale of one man's path to redemption through boxing.

Billy Hope (Jake Gyllenhaal) is the Light Heavyweight champion of the
world and a boxer known for his unique style and impressive fight
record. When his wife, Maureen (Rachel McAdams), is shot dead following
a scuffle with title contender Miguel Escobar (Miguel Gomez), both
Billy's career and personal life go in a downward spiral that sees him
both lose his boxing licence and his daughter, Leila (Oona Laurence),
to child protection services.

Billy turns to trainer Tick Wills (Forest Whitaker) to help him get his
life back on track. Carry on down the same path and Billy could lose
his daughter forever however, putting his focus into a return to boxing
could see Billy regain everything he lost after the death of his wife.

As mentioned before, the film focuses more on the man than the sport
however, Southpaw is one of the only boxing dramas I have seen where
the sport of boxing actually feels like a character in the film, not
just a backdrop for the drama.

Southpaw does become a bit predictable and features quite a few
clichés, which can't be helped in this genre, but director Antoine
Fuqua does a good job in making sure Southpaw has a bit of a cutting
edge to it. This is a hard hitting drama that isn't scared to throw the
hardest of punches at its audience.

After leaving the cinema, I read that Eminem had been lined up for the
role of Billy Hope when the film first came into production. How
different a film that would have been. I could not be more thankful
that the studio decided not to follow through with that and instead
decided to cast Gyllenhaal in the role instead.

Gyllenhaal is an actor who makes it clear that he takes his roles very
seriously and you can see that from the transformation he has put his
body through, becoming almost unrecognisable from the skinny Lou Bloom
in Nightcrawler. His gruelling six month training regime certainly
makes him look like a boxer but his decision to learn the boxing
techniques means he moves like a boxer too, making the performance even
more authentic.

The transformation would mean absolutely nothing without the
performance to match though. As expected, Gyllenhaal gives an absolute
powerhouse of a performance in Southpaw that really raises the quality
of the film because without him, this would be quite an average film. I
struggle to think of an actor right now on a hotter streak in Hollywood
than Gyllenhaal.

Forest Whitaker, as usual, adds a quality to proceedings and Rachel
McAdams does a fine job in her small role, which would have been better
if we hadn't seen her characters outcome in the trailers. Oona Laurence
gives an impressive performance as the young Leila and I didn't even
mind 50 Cent or Rita Ora being cast in the film.

The boxing sequences are very good as well, with the use of POV shots
in particular injecting the sequences with adrenaline and making the
audience feel every single punch thrown.

While Southpaw isn't the masterpiece that Raging Bull is, it certainly
sees Fuqua make his best film since Training Day. Led by another top
performance from Gyllenhaal, maybe Southpaw will make the voters this
awards season stand up and take notice of his talent, not ignore it
like they did with Nightcrawler.
<|_=00=_|>
We can always criticize Hollywood for bringing movies that are intended
to toss some smoke to the viewer by presenting something new with
repeated formulas and recycled plots we have seen somewhere else
before. The same goes for "Southpaw"... apart from the fact that
there's something more lying inside this story about a boxer's
redemption. The answer to it is the trust it puts into the strength of
its actors and the gripping emotions that come with it.

There's a little sparkle that starts to light up inside of us during
the very first minutes of the movie. And even if we barely have the
time to see Gyllenhaal and McAdams' characters, we didn't need more
because we were instantly dragged towards an emotional charge that
never abandons the plot and whose "legacy" is carried on the main
actor's shoulders.

Gyllenhaal doesn't skip a beat and keeps his character's pain and rage
constantly vivid in every detail - we feel it because we've somewhat
experienced in our lives what it means to lose someone we love and feel
lost afterward. We felt the struggle coming after the loss of a bond as
strong as that one. That's why his performance is relentless and
immaculate.

Truth is that the genuine side of "Southpaw"'s plot is based on the
main character's fall and his irreproachable route to stand up again,
reach the top once more. Only this time, the fight has completely
changed and the goals are different, goals that make us question what
we really fight for in our life.

You already know this story but not told under these terms. Hollywood
has crafted good flicks about fighters/boxers in the last few years and
"Southpaw" follows a line that is close to the more recent "Warrior",
starring Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy due to its "underdog" screenplay.
What makes this movie different from the rest is the ineluctable
emotion that never departs and befalls us, stirring and stirring our
inner feelings.

We don't always need to criticize a movie for its predictability.
"Southpaw" is predictable but it's also honest in assuming itself as
such because its purpose - and I believe, Antoine Fuqua's purpose - is
to divert our attention towards something more meaningful. And when a
movie pierces the bone to reach our heart and soul with this impact,
then it deserves our respect and acknowledgment.

"Southpaw" is, quite simply, liberating.
