
I am not sure if i am adding spoilers, but here is what to expect when
you watch this movie( apologies beforehand for people who did not want
these spoilers):

1. A tree-house: so you can hide in it in the middle of a forest to
avoid harm coming your way and of course no one will think to go up and
look for you there

2. Asthmatic dark figures: so they can forewarn their presence by
breathing heavily down the doorway while you just slide in the shadow
so no one can see you

3. Bunch of kids using radio: because you don't want the killers to
hear you yelling at each other from a distance.. yet you do..

4. a psychological breakdown: Right in the middle of an imminent crisis
where your repressed childhood memories decide to take you over and you
manage to resolve those issues RIGHT THEN, and you rise like a phoenix
from the ashes to save the day

5. A pretty girl: so she can call a just met perfect stranger "baby
bear" or similar by the end of the day and acts like its perfectly the
norm but i guess stranger things have happened...in the movie that is

6. A bunch of killers: who look like they never had a shower in their
lives, who have no speech in between them except for grunts and wild
gesticulations and it makes you wonder more about their upbringing
rather than the plot of the entire movie

so no, the movie is not good enough for people looking for serious
horror, although the stupidity of the characters in the movie is pretty
horrifying!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie before release and was anticipating some mystery
and maybe even a bit of horror. There were no ratings or reviews so I
watched it without knowing what to expect. All I got was a dragged out
film that went nowhere... Judging by the poster you would think that
this movie involved some seriously creepy and exciting plot.. But it
was quite the opposite and frankly a waste of time. With a
disappointing ending that didn't boost my thoughts of the movie. If you
are looking for horror, certainly don't watch this movie. I suppose at
most you could call it a Mystery. Overall highly disappointing and not
a movie exciting or good enough to watch with a friend.
<|_=00=_|>
1. The title is misleading.

2. The marketing of the DVD is good but doesn't prepare you for the
rubbish to come.

3. The ending is unbelievable in a bad way.

4. Poor acting and sound quality.

5. Weak storyline.

6. Monsters suddenly turn into men.

7. What Treehouse; why is it called Treehouse.....please!! 8. Complete
waste of money.

9. On a par with open water; not a compliment! 10. I have just put the
DVD in th bin, I am that angry.
<|_=00=_|>
Treehouse starts well and the opening scene suggests this may be a
small budget gem however any hope of this is quickly extinguished. 

The premise is decent, young adults and children are being kidnapped
and it all seems linked to a strange tree house. Unfortunately a very
poor script never even gets close to tapping the films potential. There
are plenty of superfluous scenes that add little or nothing to the
story. 

Treehouse changes direction at the drop of the hat as if the writer
didn't quite know what he wanted the film to be, slasher, supernatural
or gritty thriller. As a result we just get a jumbled mess of a film
that is at times confusing and at times boring.

Although it's a pretty poor film, it's not a total write off as there
are at least a couple of decent scenes and some of the filming is quite
good. 

I can't really recommend this film and am probably being a bit generous
giving it a 5 but I have seen far worse films.
<|_=00=_|>
Just how do these awful films keep getting made? It's something that
tends to happen a lot in the horror genre, though calling Treehouse a
horror movie is a bit of stretch.

It's difficult to grasp just what the makers were going for since the
film goes nowhere fast and quickly loses focus to the point that
nothing much makes sense. It starts off promising enough, with a nice
musical score and some nifty location photography work. Then it piles
on the exposition, throws in some poor acting, all building towards a
laughable finale that is most certainly not worth waiting for - and
again the reveal doesn't make any sense given what had happened earlier
in the piece.

Poor and best avoided unless you want to feel angry? 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Okay so they are in the Treehouse and this creature looking thing
climbs up and they're all scared, then it goes away and then the
creatures start like yodeling like an entire army of those "creatures"
yodeling and then suddenly... those creatures turn into humans...humans
with guns...

what happened to the creatures

this movie would be so much better if the people stuck to the creepy
creatures killing people in the woods plot... 

like what even happened to the creatures that were supposed to be the
killers.. 

do the humans like turn into creatures at night?

i don't understand

this movie enrages me

i gave it a 3/10 for the forehead wrinkles and the retarded boy in the
woods that sucks at life and should kill himself
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know where to begin with how crap this movie is. I jump at
Rom Coms and it doesn't take much to please me with a scary movie...
this is mind bogglingly bad. I created this account to do nothing other
than make sure people know how much of a waste of time this is.

The acting is god awful. The dialogue is stupid. Love interest?

I waited months for this to come out and this is the crap I'm supposed
to watch?

Next time I need something this painful to take an hour and a half I'll
hire the homeless guy to wax my testicles slowly.

Literally the only positive thing about this movie is that... nope.
Nothing. Literally no redeeming factors to be gleamed from watching
this film. Please find something better to do with your precious time.
<|_=00=_|>
This shouldn't be considered an ending spoiler simply because THERE IS
NO ENDING TO SPEAK OF.

'Treehouse' only tells 2/3rds of a story, and when the movie reaches
what should be the beginning of a concluding 3rd Act, the filmmakers
simply do not provide one.

After suggesting a final confrontation with an anonymous, flabby, mute
teenager with no personality to speak of--a conflict which could be
resolved in less than ten minutes of screen time after the protagonists
spontaneously arm themselves with assault rifles--the movie just STOPS.
No confrontation, no climax, no resolution or denouement, NOTHING.

What's suggested is that the filmmakers were either too lazy to finish
their story (then why begin one in the first place?) or completely
delusional in believing the remaining possible 10 minutes of the story
could be stretched into ANOTHER 96-minute feature (as if they've gotten
anyone to care after the FIRST 96 minutes).

If there's anyone reading this who is actually emotionally invested in
a potential sequel, just to see an anonymous, flabby, mute teenager
with no personality who isn't even introduced until well over an hour
into 'Treehouse' get his comeuppance, please understand that your sons
and daughters are making terrible movies.

Neutral, casual viewers out there just don't give a damn.

There's much more wrong with 'Treehouse' than just this, but when
there's already a problem as bad as THIS "ending"... Why even bother
going into more detail? Just stay away from 'Treehouse'. You'll find a
better outcome watching grass grow or watching anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about "Treehouse" is the horrifying poster that came out
along with the movie. Whoever made the poster did a great job of
getting the attention of any potential viewer and it's incredibly
creepy. Otherwise, however, it's a movie I just cannot recommend. In so
many ways, it looks a lot like a high school student project, but with
quite a bit more money and quality behind it.

"Treehouse" has a very simple plot. Two brothers go into the woods and
once there they discover a missing teen. She's been holed up inside a
treehouse for several days...hiding from someone or something that has
been stalking her and her brother. At times the film tries to introduce
more plot through some flashbacks, but essentially this is the plot.
Ultimately, there is a showdown--some of which I actually liked, as the
most unlikely looking action hero of all time (J. Michael Trautmann)
rises to the occasion. 

So why am I cold about this film? Well, it looks and sounds like the
movie just isn't ready to be seen by the public. The script could use a
lot of work. When it comes to the dialog, much of it just sounded
unreal and takes you out of the experience...especially with the
missing girl continually and inexplicably calling the hero 'Baby Bear'.
The characters also talk and scream A LOT for folks hiding out in a
treehouse in order to avoid being killed!! Rule number one of avoiding
death is that you should consider being quiet when you are hiding from
psycho killers! The film is also overlong and would benefit from
omitting the flashbacks, tightening up the first portion of the film
and simply concentrating on the action-- and it was a bit better during
some of the action sequences. Considering that the filmmakers really
haven't a lot of experience, maybe this film is simply a way for them
to hone their skills while making a few mistakes along the way. If so,
there is a bit of promise and they might be bringing us something more
polished and viewer-ready in the future. As for "Treehouse", however, I
just can't see spending your hard-earned money to buy or rent the film
when there are better films like it already.
<|_=00=_|>
simply at the beginning and after you see the trailer you feel like
your are going to see a hell of a horror movie that contains a lot of
paranormal entities and stuff but simply you discover that there is
nothing the effects and the makeup is very very cheap there is no story
the story is rubbish and out of sequence there nothing right in that
movie at all it's just a very low budget movie to make you waste 2
hours of your life watching crap i can't believe that there are 3
grownup men wrote that movie actually didn't they see it before
launching it so that they can discover that it's out of sense

SIMPLY IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE !!!!

ADVISE ....... Don't WASTE YOUR TIME WATCHING THIS MOVIE
