
Saw this at the Sydney Film Festival last night and I absolutely loved
it. It's heartfelt and very, very funny while remaining subtle and not
overdoing either. 

It's a story about a teenage boy trying to find a place where he
belongs and how no-one's family is perfect. It's about the awkwardness
and embarrassment of adolescence and finding friendship.

Sam Rockwell is hilarious in this and the young actor was really,
really good too. It was also great to see Steve Carrell play against
type. I hated him in this movie so he did a great job.

Go see this movie please! You will laugh and you may cry. I wish there
were more movies like this with heart and humour instead of
Transformers 47 & Fast & The Furious 95

This movie is not a 3 or a 6!
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies which sound so simple that it's hard to convey to
people just how good they are. The Way, Way Back is one of those
movies. It's simply a coming-of-age story about a 14-year-old boy over
the course of his summer break. There are no big action scenes or
special effects here, just really good writing with actors who can
bring such a realistic story to life.

The movie begins with the boy, Duncan, riding in a car with his family
to his mother's boyfriend's beach house. As the mother sleeps in the
passenger seat, the boyfriend asks Duncan to rate himself on a scale of
1 to 10. After replying with a 6, the boyfriend insists that he's just
a 3. What's surprising is that this seemingly heartless guy that the
mother is dating is played by Steve Carell. Carell is known for playing
lovable and funny characters. But he switches it up with this role.
That scene sets the tone for how little Duncan is looking forward to
this summer trip. And it doesn't help that his mother doesn't really
set her boyfriend straight even when she is awake.

To escape the annoyances at his new temporary home, Duncan takes a bike
to ride around town with. When he finds a way into the local water
park, he meets one of the middle-aged operators there named Owen.
Duncan seems fascinated by Owen (played by Sam Rockwell) and how he
uses humor in almost everything he says. It seems like he's never met
anyone like him who's so worry-free and exudes such confidence all the
time. (Sam Rockwell is perfect at playing this care-free kind of
man-child.) Owen manages to get Duncan a job at the park where he tries
to instill some of that same confidence in him as well. It becomes
clear that as they bond with each other, Duncan wishes this would be
the kind of guy his mother would date instead. The job at the water
park also opens up a whole new fun side that this 14-year-old kid
didn't even know he had in him.

If not for the occasional Google or iPad reference, this movie could
easily have taken place in the 1980's. The setting as well as the way
people dress and talk to each other is right out of an 80's film - is
it a coincidence that all of the music played in the movie is from that
era? There's a very natural and wholesome vibe to it, especially in the
water park scenes - nothing looks too modern or high-tech; it's just a
place where people go to have an old-fashioned good time. While Steve
Carell may be the most popular name on the poster, the movie has a
great cast altogether. Toni Collette (The Sixth Sense, Little Miss
Sunshine), in particular, does an amazing job as the mother torn
between defending her son and trying to make things work with the
arrogant boyfriend who doesn't always treat them right. But it's the
scenes between Duncan and his new older friend Owen that are the heart
of the movie. Sometimes it just takes the right person to bring out
someone else's true colors and help them be comfortable in their own
skin. And sometimes it takes the right movie to make you feel like a
kid again. This one will have you yearning for the days when things
were a little simpler.
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing to dislike about this movie. The actors do a terrific
job all around--from the scene-stealing eyepatch kid to Allison Janey's
lush to Steve Carrell's first role as a d-bag. Kudos to the kid playing
Duncan and the guy playing his...boss? mentor? friend? saviour?--or all
of the above. The scenery is lovely and convincingly real--no beach
McMansions with $6,500 Wolf ranges. It shows what a real beach
community looks like. The '70 Buick Estate Wagon is sublime and had me
kvelling.

But it's the story that really makes the viewer smile. Duncan is a
lost, lonely, mess...14, stuck with his mom whom he loves (but doesn't
really respect), her douchebag boyfriend, boyfriend's daughter, and not
much else. He finds his way in a way that defines a coming-of-age
story. The Water Wizz guy--channeling Bill Murray in Meatballs in an
obvious homage--does a great job, never losing sight of his own
challenges in life while helping young Duncan emerge from his painful
shell.
<|_=00=_|>
"Before you know kindness as the deepest thing inside, you must know
sorrow as the other deepest thing"- Naomi Shihab Nye 

Directed and co-written by Nat Faxon and Jim Rash who won an Oscar for
the Best Adapted Screenplay for The Descendants, The Way Way Back is a
warmhearted and beautifully realized teen comedy that is as poignant as
it is funny. Though there are more coming-of-age films than references
to God in the Bible, very few have really hit home for me as much as
this one. Of course, there are the usual complaints from critics about
how it "doesn't break any new ground" as if it was a construction site,
but to me it felt fresh and alive with real and relatable characters
far removed from the stereotypes of most films in this genre.

In the film, 14-year-old Duncan (Liam James) is a sullen, withdrawn
adolescent whose shaky self-image is not helped by his divorced mother
Pam's (Toni Collette) and her obnoxious boyfriend Trent (Steve Carell),
or his snippy daughter Steph (Zoe Levin). On the drive to spend the
summer at Trent's beach house called "The Riptide," Trent asks him how
he would rate himself on a scale of one to ten. Not normally being
asked to rate oneself, Duncan might have said "two thumbs up," if he
thought about it, but all he can think of to say is a six.

When Trent tells him (calling him Buddy as he does throughout the film
as if he has no name) that he thinks he is a three because he doesn't
put himself out to people, he might think he is showing some tough
love, but the result is that Duncan is pushed deeper into his shell. As
Albert Einstein said, "Only two things are infinite, the universe and
human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former." At the New England
beach house as his mother tries to make everyone happy, Duncan has to
deal with adults whose maturity level on a scale of one to ten might be
so low as to be off the charts. There is the boozy and off-the-wall
neighbor Betty (Allison Janney) as well as Trent's friends Kip and Joan
(Robb Corddry and Amanda Peet), all engaging in what Betty calls
"Spring break for adults." 

To make matters more uncomfortable, Betty's daughter Susanna
(AnnaSophia Robb), who is slightly older than Duncan, tries to engage
him in conversation but the stoop-shouldered boy is too withdrawn to
respond. He is more at ease with Betty's younger son Peter (River
Alexander) who is constantly being teased about his unfocused left eye.
On one of his frequent bike rides on the pink bike he discovers in the
garage, however, Duncan finds a kindred spirit at the Wizz World Water
Park in the person of Owen (Sam Rockwell), the park's manager. As
are-free and ungrounded as some of the other adults in the film, Owen
has one attribute the others lack. He has a terrific sense of humor and
takes an interest in the people around him.

These include long-time employee Maya Rudolph (Caitlyn) who had only
planned to stay one summer but is drawn back by Owen's charm and wit.
Owen also takes an interest in Duncan but it is not the "brother you
need help" attitude. He gives him a job at the park's pools and water
slides to help boost his self-esteem, a job which neither Trent nor his
mother know anything about. Sam Rockwell's performance as Owen is
pitch-perfect. Even though his communication with Duncan is mostly full
of wisecracks, there is an underlying connection between the two that
is not based on need alone. Pure and simple, they like each other and
it shows, as does the remarkable chemistry displayed by the entire
ensemble cast.

Duncan's transformation happens gradually, however. As he finds himself
being accepted by the park's employees, his shoulders begin to
straighten out, there is a hint of a smile on his face as well as a new
look of confidence. Lian James, a Vancouver actor, not only disappears
into the role of Duncan, he is Duncan and his struggle to reconnect
with the world he has been estranged from is so honest and painful that
we identify with him and want to help him, in Langston Hughes words,
"to break his shadow into a thousand lights of sun." As in many great
films, The Way Way Back has laughter and tears in equal measure.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen a run of fairly forgettable blockbusters it was nice to go
along and watch a low budget movie. 

The way way back is a coming of age movie and follows shy Duncan on his
summer vacation with mother and step dad. I'm sure the relationship
between Duncan and parents will be familiar to many people. The good
thing about this type of movie is that it focuses more on characters
and you get a real sense, feel and empathy for several characters. The
cast is strong and in addition to the lead played by Liam James you
have the likes of Steve Carell, Toni Collette and Sam Rockwell.

The movie does occasionally get a little too "feel good", but that's a
small drawback in what is otherwise a very enjoyable watch. Well worth
a watch if you like off beat indie dramas.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to go way way back in thinking of a coming-of-age summer comedic
movie that made me feel so good, and in doing that the classic
"Meatballs" comes to mind. The dynamic duo team of Nat Faxon & Jim Rash
have swimmingly perfected a film that homages "Meatballs" and puts a
new spin to it, without duplicating it; and that would be in their
craft filmmaking of "The Way Way Back". The film stars teen actor Liam
James as 14 year-old Duncan who is an isolated teen who despises the
idea of taking a summer vacation with his timid mother Pam, her
arrogant boyfriend Trent, and Trent's narcissistic daughter Steph.
Their vacation spot is at Trent's beach house where nearby has a water
park; I will slide into that one a little later in my review. Trent
does have a few eccentric neighbors in his beach house which include
the lush-filled gabby Betty, a divorcée with three kids; and also the
vociferous couple Kip & Joan. Duncan is constantly ridiculed and
excluded by Trent and Stephanie which puts him in the perpetual state
of "I want to get the f*ck of out of here". However, in a twist of
fate, Duncan befriends the vivacious water park employee Owen,
perfectly played by Sam Rockwell. Consequently, Duncan starts to
regularly visit the water park to hang with Owen and the other water
park wacky employees. And before you know it, Duncan plummets himself
to a part-time working gig at the park; unknowing to his mom and Trent.
Duncan takes flight at the water park and you see the "coming-of-age"
turn at every moment in his time there. Owen's character is very
reminiscent of the Tripper character (played to the tee by Bill Murray)
in "Meatballs". But Rockwell plays the part so superbly that it does
not appear to be a Tripper duplication but instead a modern
transformation within its Tripper homage; tripped out yet? Duncan also
befriends Betty's teen daughter Susanna, who empathizes with Duncan's
situation in dealing with a callous potential stepdaddy. Faxon & Rash's
masterful direction & screenplay of "The Way Way Back" was not dead on
the water; in fact- the vitality, humor, and tenderness they brought to
the movie's direction & screenplay should hopefully land them in the
wave of Oscar contenders for Best Director & Best Original Screenplay.
As far as the thespian pool of the picture, I must state that it was a
perfect ensemble. James showed potentiality that he will be on his way
back to other leading roles with his fine work as Duncan. Steve
Carell's performance as Trent showed the depth to his acting by playing
a part non-typical to the Carell filmography; Trent was sure one
heartless bastard, and Carell disappeared into the role. Toni Collette
was spic & spam in her role as Duncan's mom Pam. Faxon & Rash
themselves were a hoot playing two water park employees, Roddy and
Lewis. Other supporting turns that were no lazy river works were of
Anna Sophia Robb as Susanna, Rob Corddry & Amanda Peet who we had fun
with as Kip & Joan, and Maya Rudolph as water park manager Caitlin; and
I would be remiss if I did not mention the standout, scene-stealing
performance from Allison Janney as the wickedly-hilarious Betty. Be it
as it may, it was still Rockwell that stole the show here. His work in
"The Way Way Back" should slide him into a Best Supporting Actor Oscar
nomination. "The Way Way Back" is a gem of a movie, and I hope it does
not land "way way back" in your "movies to see" list; if for no better
reason, you will be delaying time in missing one heck of a flick. *****
Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
A sweet, funny, earnest coming-of-age dramedy that plays out like a
period piece, even though it's set in the present day. Tempering a
plucky spirit and subtle, pointed sense of humor with an introverted
lead character and a familiar, bittersweet atmosphere, it's a spiritual
successor to the John Hughes golden age of the mid-80s. Liam James is
beautifully awkward as the quiet, brooding young teenager at the
story's epicenter, aided by a thoroughly deep, entertaining supporting
cast. No matter how minor, every character enjoys a purpose and a
motivation, enriching the scenery and tickling the viewer's curiosity
with a tangle of warm, colorful subplots. Steve Carell will get plenty
of attention in his unexpected turn as the boy's self-centered
douchebag stand-in father, but Sam Rockwell's deeper-than-he-seems
burnout splash park manager is the real show stealer. A strong,
heartfelt and meaningful return visit to adolescence for anyone who's
ever felt out-of-place in their own skin.
<|_=00=_|>
The Way Way Back is marketed as a thoughtful, funny teen flick but,
though it is thoughtful, funny and co-stars a couple of teens, the
younger audience members shuffled and whispered as if bored, while the
belly laughs and satisfied smiles came almost entirely from the 'more
mature' audience members. It's not that this is an adult film but so
many references require a certain level of life experience or simply
that the audience was 'there' at a particular time. Like the
blank-faced children queuing for the water chute during the superb
Holding out For a Hero scene, it makes little sense for those who never
sang along to Bonnie Tyler but tickles the funny bones of almost
everyone over the age of 35.

The Way Way Back is a gentle coming of age comedy about the world
Duncan (Liam James) has been thrust into. His divorced mum, Pam (Toni
Collette), has shacked up with Trent (Steve Carell), forcing Duncan to
deal with the absence of his father, the domineering, judgmental
disdain of Trent and the withering stares of Trent's bitchy daughter,
Steph (Zoe Levin). Dragged off to Trent's summer vacation home, Duncan
endures humiliation and misery until he meets Owen (Sam Rockwell), the
manger of the Water Wizz water park, who approaches life in his own
manner and sees in Duncan what he cannot find in himself. And then
there's the girl next door, Susanna (AnnaSophia Robb), and her mum,
Betty (Allison Janney) 

It takes a while for The Way Way Back to really kick in. I knew I
wanted to enjoy it, and nothing really prevented that from happening,
but it felt half a beat off the pace. Then, about twenty minutes in,
something sparked and the investment for the first quarter became
worthwhile. Just as Duncan evolves into someone a little less awkward,
a little more confident than the alien he feels himself to be in his
world, so The Way Way Back develops into a heartwarming tale of angst,
the reality of life and second chances. And it steps beyond 'quietly
amusing' into 'very funny'.

The principal reasons The Way Way Back works are Nat Faxon and Jim
Rash, the partnership that won an Oscar for writing The Descendants and
have earned themselves loyal fan bases individually as actors, Rash
particularly as Dean Pelton in Community. While The Way Way Back
doesn't quite have the edge of The Descendants, it is still a tender,
thoughtful visitor that carries a hidden knife to jab into your ribs
when required. For anyone who couldn't wait to leave home and
adolescence far behind and found exciting possibilities in their summer
jobs, this is a film with enough references to make you smile and belly
laugh in solidarity and complete understanding.

At the centre of The Way Way Back is James' Duncan. It's not a
star-making performance that tugs at us like, say, Paul Dano's Dwayne
in the supreme Little Miss Sunshine (which also starred Carell and
Collette) but his character development is steady rather than
breathtaking and we buy into him. He's odd but we like him because of
that. This is no 'ugly duckling turning beautiful' hogwash but a
considered performance from an actor who has inhabited his on-screen
persona completely.

Collette is on fairly safe territory here as the mixed-up mum who is
holding it together and hoping for the best but papering over the
cracks with tissue. As her boyfriend, however, Carell is on superb
form. There are many expletives and mild obscenities one could use to
describe Trent but Carell avoids the pitfalls of making him purely
evil. Trent isn't so much cruel as quietly unpleasant. Perhaps he even
believes he is genuinely helping when he asks Duncan, "On a scale of
one to ten, what do you think you are?" before crushing the teenager
with his own damning, contrary assessment of him. This is a Carell we
are rarely allowed to see but I sincerely hope he extends his range and
gives us the dark side more often.

Rockwell is at his best here. Forget the overcooked oddball of Seven
Psychopaths, he is on sincere form as the man who has never quite left
his own youth and understands what really matters more than any of the
other adults around Duncan. Rockwell has proved to be a versatile actor
(compare his turns in Welcome to Collinwood, The Green Mile and
Matchstick Men for a start) who adds a quirky tangent to most films.
His Owen is not simply played for laughs but with honesty and
sincerity.

On the periphery are some solid and amusing supporting performances
from the likes of Rob Corddry and Amanda Peet as the neighbours, Kip
and Joan, and Janney as the lush next door, but scenes are stolen
frequently by Rash as the camp, dour Lewis, an kiosk attendant with no
customers and no escape. Brilliant! The Way Way Back is far from
perfect but, after the initial lacklustre, I enjoyed it immensely and
laughed aloud. If you heeded my advice and enjoyed last year's Safety
Not Guaranteed, add this to your viewing list. It's not quite a gem but
it's worth taking a chance on a movie that flies because of some very,
very funny delivery of superbly written dialogue.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. OK, before you accuse me of being
the world's worst speller, you should know that my title "Water
Wizzdom" is a play on words ... the waterpark in the film is known as
Water Wizz and Sam Rockwell plays Owen, the man-child mentor to Liam
James' Duncan. Duncan is a miserable 14 year old stuck in a beach house
with his mom, her obnoxious boyfriend, and his snobby daughter.

Steve Carell plays Trent, the condescending and bullying boyfriend who
has no redeeming qualities that we can see (other than the beach house
and a nice tan). Duncan's mom is played by Toni Collette, and her
character Pam is a divorced, insecure single mom trying to balance her
own happiness with that of her teen-angst-filled son. Pam and Duncan
are the outsiders in this beach community as we quickly learn when next
door neighbor Betty (Allison Janney) shows up with drink in hand and
gossip for all.

The well worn movie signs are all here ... we recognize the characters
and their struggles, in fact, we all know someone like each of the
people that co-writers and co-directors Nat Faxon and Jim Rash present
to us. We understand quickly that this is yet another coming-of-age
tale with mostly clueless adults. Despite that, this one still mostly
works. The writing and acting are such high quality that even though we
are living in movie cliché-land, we still find ourselves caring about
Duncan and Pam, laughing at Owen, and tossing tomatoes at Trent
(Carell).

Special recognition to Sam Rockwell. Even though Duncan is the key
character, it's Rockwell's Owen who recognizes that a little faith and
encouragement goes a long way. Behind the facade of rapid-fire banter
and laugh-inducing one-liners, Owen is coming to grips with a life of
reality and shattered dreams. While never stooping to the typical
Hollywood "win one for the Gipper" speech, Owen manages to instill a
bit of confidence in Duncan ... to the point where he refuses to let
his mother pretend everything is OK with Trent.

AnnaSophia Robb plays the cute girl-next-door who recognizes potential
in Duncan, but the filmmakers never allow this to turn into some
ridiculous fairy tale. Instead we get characters who are each flawed,
but real and recognizable. While all the typical pieces are present,
there is enough crackle to the dialogue and quality acting to help this
one rise above the usual muck. It's a nice "little" alternative to the
giant summer blockbusters. Nat Faxon and Jim Rash won an Oscar for
co-writing The Descendants with Alexander Payne. In their directorial
debut, they prove that they also have skills as filmmakers. The next
one could be even better!
<|_=00=_|>
*Spoilers* *Spoilers* I just watched this film last night at Sundance,
and it's great! Hopefully it doesn't take too long for the film to be
distributed, as I read that the film was purchased by Fox Searchlight
for nearly 10 million. It reminded me a lot of "Adventureland" in its
tone and feel, but it's a little more family-friendly, and it
definitely is a PG-13 movie for those that were wondering.

The film focuses on Liam James character Duncan, a quiet, anti-social
teen dealing with the recent divorce of his parents. His father has
since relocated to San Diego with a younger girlfriend, and despite his
desire to stay with his father for the summer, he ends up having to go
with his mom and her boyfriend to spend the summer at her boyfriend's
beach house. You come to understand that Duncan's mom Pam (Toni
Collette) is aware of her boyfriend Trent's (Steve Carrell) wandering
eye, but she is enamored by his charm, and maybe more so by the need
for companionship and security. Duncan makes no effort to hide his
disdain for Trent, who belittles his social skills, and later in the
film goes so far as to tell him he is unwanted by his own father. Trent
chastises Duncan about building mutual respect and trust, and yet he is
banging his best friend's wife Joan (Amanda Peet),a fellow summer home
yuppie. You later find out through dialog between Joan and Trent, that
their little trysts seem to be a regular summer tradition.

Duncan is looking for any way out of the situation, or at least how he
can spend as much time as possible away from Trent, Trent's own teenage
daughter, and their friends. He sparks up a nice friendship with
Susanna (AnnaSophia Robb), a teenage girl mature beyond her years, who
has grown tired of Trent's daughter and the other arrogant, shallow
teenagers she is forced to hang out with at the beach all summer. She
gets Duncan to open up to her a little bit, and acts as a channel of
relief for Duncan away from the people he despises.

The real magic within the film is the relationship between Duncan and
Owen (Sam Rockwell),a middle-aged operator of a water park within the
resort town, who also comes from a troubled past and a strained
relationship with his own father. Owen uses his humor and confidence to
try and instill the same in Duncan, and provides Duncan with not just a
summer job to get him away from the beach house, but also an
environment where he can learn to be outgoing and build a number of
friendships. Owen knows that Duncan has trouble at home, but is careful
not to pry too much, until he can see that Duncan really needs someone
he can open up to. The three quirky water park employees aside from
Owen that the movie focuses on are played by Maya Rudolph, Nat Faxon,
and Jim Rash.

I knew it was a drama with some comedic elements, but the interesting
thing about this film, is that you would assume some of the funnier
moments would come from the likes of Steve Carrell and Maya Rudolph.
They, however, bring more of the dramatic elements to the film, with
Steve Carrell playing the dirt bag boyfriend of Toni Collette, and Maya
Rudolph (Caitlyn) a water park employee who is facing a mid-life crisis
of sorts. She had planned on working at the water park for one summer,
but is now in her fourth year there, and is starting to second guess
herself and the time she has invested in the park.

Caitlyn is continually frustrated by the park manager's lackadaisical
attitude and laid-back nature, but like many of the longtime employees
there, she is continually drawn back by the prevalent family culture
and the friendships she has formed while working at the park. The water
park operator is played with charm, wit, and panache by Sam Rockwell,
who has long been one of my favorite actors, and provides many of the
funny and heart-wrenching moments of the film.

Most of the other big laughs come from Betty (Allison Janney), who is
the slightly eccentric and sexually-repressed neighbor of Steve
Carrell's character. She has a socially deprived son with a lazy eye
named Peter (River Alexander), and the relationship between Betty and
Peter provide some of the lighter moments in the film. There are also a
couple of great moments when Duncan takes Peter to the water park to
meet his co-workers, and helps Peter gain some new found confidence of
his own.

I'll leave the ending out of my review, but I think you will find it
heartfelt and satisfying to say the least. This film is highly
recommended.
