
If not for the filmmakers deliberately sacrificing content for supposed
style, "Silent House" could have been an intelligent and disturbing
horror film -- perhaps even a classic. All the elements were in place:
creepy location, good actress, decent story with a few twists. But
regrettably, "Open Water" directors Chris Kentis and Laura Lau's
decision to remake a low-budget 2010 Uruguayan film also includes its
main gimmick: filming the entire movie in one (supposedly) unbroken,
continuous take. And therein lies the problem.

This film, while ambitious on a technical level, demonstrates the
importance of building up needed character and story elements no matter
how innovative the camera work may be. In this picture, we know
virtually nothing about the main character -- where she comes from,
what she wants... how can we be expected to care or understand what
happens to her? How are we expected to comprehend complex story
revelations when half the time we can't even see the girl's face?

By emphasizing style over content, Kentis has sacrificed drama and
effective storytelling. Hitchcock fared better back in 1948 with his
experiment (some would say failed experiment) with extremely long
takes, "Rope." Generally agreed to be one of his lesser efforts,
Hitch's sole foray into real-time, single-location filmmaking worked to
an extent because his characters were so well-defined and the story
effectively constructed. Of course, he never made another film this way
again, and for good reason: 1. audiences generally don't care how a
film is made (filmmakers and critics do) and 2. the elimination of
editing means stripping a film of one of its most important and
creative components. 

Editing is what separates movies from theater. It's an essential
process that allows a filmmaker to creatively shape a story and actors'
performances. Miracles can be worked in the cutting room. Scenes that
don't work can be re-worked or removed. Performances can be
strengthened and improved. Pacing can be improved. Suspense can be
built. A director eliminating the editing phase of his film is like a
sculptor hacking off one of his hands. So what at first might seem like
a noble and innovative experiment in style is actually one of the most
foolish and damaging things a film director can possibly do. He may
believe he has achieved something significant and profound, but -- at
least in this case -- the storytelling suffers greatly, and the
audience pays the price: everything takes forever to happen. A slow,
mundane conversation, which could have been sped up in the cutting
room, now drones on forever. A walk to find a dead body, which should
have happened in mere seconds, now takes minutes as characters plod
about from room to room, being careful not to lose the cameraman
following behind them.

Interestingly, "Silent House" fails in all the ways "Open Water" (which
might have made a better one-take, real-time movie) succeeds. "Open
Water" may have looked like a home movie shot with a camcorder, but it
worked. It worked because we got to know the characters, we cared about
them. We wanted to find out if they would survive... and how they would
survive. With "Silent House," we don't know WHO the hell the girl is,
WHERE the hell she's come from, and WHAT the hell she wants! So
ultimately, we really don't give a damn. Why? The director was too busy
worrying about his complicated camera moves.

There may be a place for a real-time, single-shot film... but this
story and screenplay was unfortunately not it.

Sorry, Chris! I certainly don't mean to be unkind -- and I would
happily give your film ten stars if filmmaking was about all creative,
hand-held camera-work and precise focus-pulling. But last time I
checked, it wasn't.

That said, you are without question a talented and ambitious filmmaker,
and I consider "Open Water" one of the most frightening and bold
exercises in low-budget filmmaking EVER. 

I wish you continued success, and eagerly anticipate your next
cinematic endeavor.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good film. People have complained heavily about the lack of
character explanation, which I do realise is conventionally the basis
to any decent story, BUT I feel this film is due credit for its
unconventional approach in editing, filming and character placement.

I watch a lot of horrors, searching for anything that doesn't hit upon
cliché after cliché and I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It wasn't a
typical 'in your face' horror, but was tense, creepy and unpredictable
until the twist. Despite not being completely original in overall plot,
I can easily imagine its approach to film making leaving a legacy for
future filmmakers. 

The camera work was clever, the acting good and overall experience was
enjoyable. It was a complete mind f*ck of a film until the twist.
That's how I like my films. So thumbs up all round.

Definitely would recommend this to anyone that can appreciate the fact
that a film can be scary without ridiculous amount of blood, gore and
stereotypical characters. 

Anyway, Enjoy fellow film lovers!
<|_=00=_|>
'SILENT HOUSE': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

American remake of the 2010 Uruguayan film, of the same name, about a
young woman attacked in her families' vacation house. It's said to be
based on a true story from the 1940's. Chris Kentis and Laura Lau
directed the film and Lau also wrote the screenplay. The same team also
did the 2003 low budget horror hit 'OPEN WATER'. The film is somewhat
effective and scary, at first, but once it gets to it's routine plot
twist it goes seriously downhill.

Elizabeth Olsen stars in the film as Sarah, a young woman staying with
her father (Adam Trese) and uncle (Eric Sheffer Stevens) at their
vacation house in the country while they clean it up in order to sell
it. When the uncle leaves to go into town an unseen assailant attacks
Sarah's father and then chases Sarah throughout the house. Sarah tries
to flee and run for help while avoiding the intruders. The entire thing
is played out in real time.

The movie starts out pretty sow-paced but gets pretty creepy and
intense as it goes on. The real time effect is one of the film's
greatest assets while also being one of it's biggest weaknesses. It's
pretty scary at times but also really boring. Once the movie gets to
it's big twist (like I said) it loses any real thrills or viewer
involvement it had going for it. A mediocre film at best.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKhLjf_1MKw
<|_=00=_|>
The is only my second review on IMDb but I feel it's important to
offset the unduly negative reviews here. I read the reviews beforehand
and was put off watching but was actually amazed at how good the film
actually is. The film is superior in every way to Open Water, which is
also a very good film. I feel a bit for the directors, having made such
an obviously great horror film, only to not have it recognised as such.
The main actor is extremely good at her job. I have seen virtually
every 'woman in peril' movie but the fear experienced by her character
is utterly palpable and convincing. The fear of having killer strangers
in your house is done better in this film than ANY OTHER film I have
watched. Far from the 'real time' aspect not working, it actually works
brilliantly and is done extremely well. 

PS. and no, I'm nothing to do with cast or makers of this film!! I just
like watching good horror films and this is without a doubt a very good
horror film.
<|_=00=_|>
Directors Chris Kentis and Laura Lau give us a story about a young
woman, Sarah, who is sealed inside her family's secluded lake house.
With no way out, events become terrifying. The direction was fine and
all of the suspense points seem to be there, albeit a bit predictable.
I'm not sure who to credit whenever there is two, sometimes three,
directors on board.

The cast had fine actors involved including Adam Trese, Elizabeth
Olsen, Eric Sheffer Stevens, Julia Taylor Ross. Elizabeth Olsen did a
good job and it doesn't hurt that she is nice to look at. 

Interesting camera work on this movie. There seems to be a lot of
static shots, that work most of the time. I'm sure that these are
choices that the director (s) made and I applaud them for making
choices and sticking to them.

This is a story based on a concept that is not very original, but what
is important is the execution.

Would I recommend it? I'm not sure if this is for everyone. Some may
pick it apart just a little too much. For my, I enjoyed it for what it
was.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, obviously i had just finnished watching this movie. I came to IMDb
to look up who the lead actress was. Upon finding the poor reviews on
this movie i had to make an account. I have had enough of these movie
"critics". Every time i come on here i see ratings that do not justify
the movies. Time and time again all you read is some snob critic
complaining about something and the sheep of mindless dummies nod and
agree. Im not going to go into full details about this movie but rather
give my two cents from a person who's life basically is stories on
screens. My criteria for "good" movies/shows. 1.)is the lead actor
good. 2.)Is it different. 3.)Was it entertaining 4.)Was it predictable
5.)How was the story telling. Do not listen to the mindless hordes of
know it all, the lead actor was good, the story was not predictable and
it was entertaining overall. watch this movie and judge for yourself. I
mean seriously IMDb rating is crap.
<|_=00=_|>
Silent House is directed by Chris Kentis and written by Laura Lau. It
stars Elizabeth Olsen, Adam Trese and Eric Sheffer Stevens. Music is by
Nathan Larson and cinematography by Igor Martinovic. A remake of
Uruguayan film, La casa muda (The Silent House), story has Olsen as
Sarah, a young woman who finds herself locked in the abandoned family
home she was helping her father and uncle to clear out before it is
sold. Soon Sarah finds herself pursued by an unseen assailant and she
struggles to make sense of what is festering in the house.

Forget the gimmick that comes with the film, that of the use of "real
time" to give off the effect of one continuous take, it doesn't impact
on how you ultimately will feel about the film either way. It comes
down to if you can buy into another haunted house movie whilst
accepting the outcome as being worth your time. Horror fans are
notoriously hard to please, even when something original happens along,
such as the recent The Cabin in the Woods, a good portion of the horror
faithful will remain displeased. Silent House is what it is, a hugely
efficient haunted house creeper that admirably builds suspense and then
shows its twisty hand. If you want fresh and exciting, and I keep
seeing people write that "such and such" didn't bring nothing new to
the table whilst themselves not offering up exactly what could be
brought to said table, then it's very unlikely Silent House will fill
your horror hungry bellies.

Coming from the makers of Open Water, it's evident that Silent House
wants to have realism on its side, it's stripped back for impact, with
a less is more approach to its garnering of chills. With Olsen
terrific, and she is, we are asked to put ourselves in that house and
be in her shoes to feel the terror. Not everyone can do that,
obviously, but being able to do that considerably makes Silent House a
far better movie than its lowly internet ratings suggest it is. The
scares are not over done, the music score is suitably sparse as
claustrophobia reigns supreme, the use of natural light impressive and
the camera glides about as an ethereal observer, technically it is a
very effectively constructed haunted house picture. It's also
refreshing to find the makers are able to use credible reasons for
characters to be in and out of the house, this isn't about the dumb
decision making so often rife in this sub-genre of horror over the
years.

Sadly the third act is weak as the scares, tech attributes and
atmosphere subside, we land in familiar territory and the big reveals,
whilst thematically potent and never to be scoffed at, lack the desired
impact and the film closes down more on a whimper instead of the
terrified scream the rest of the film deserved. A shame, because for
the most part this is a very good genre offering for those who have a
bent for such spooky/home invasion doings. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I wish critics would stop reviewing this movie based on its supposed
technical merits or their desire to see Elizabeth Olsen succeed and
rate it as a cinematic experience. Wow, great, the movie might largely
give the impression that it was done in one take. Elizabeth Olsen may
have some talent. That doesn't mean -this movie- has any redeeming
value whatsoever. The movie just flat-out stinks.

From obvious contradictions to tedious attempts to build suspense to
irritating camera techniques, there is nothing good going on here. The
main character makes a big production out of locking the front door
with a key hanging on a hook to show us that it's not that easy to get
out of the house once the door is locked, but then another character
leaves the house five seconds later and the door opens and shuts in two
seconds off-screen.

You spend most of the movie watching shaky close-up shots of people's
shoulders or the girl's face, to the point that for almost the first
half of the movie it feels like the girl is running away from her own
shadow. She goes into 100% panic mode from the first creepy noise that
she hears in the house, and once it becomes clear to the audience that
there even really is someone else there there isn't anywhere for her to
go emotionally. From there, the exercise becomes repetitive and boring.

She runs through this house that isn't really that big, looking for
doors and windows to open, and when she finds none there's no sense of
"I better find some place to hide and quick!". She just kind of gives
up, and it doesn't matter because the movie doesn't give the sense that
any intruders or supernatural presence or whatever in the house is even
paying attention to her. Sure, it grabs her leg or shuts a door near
her once in a while, but it isn't actually out to get her, or it would
have pursued her when she ran to find the doors. This kills any sense
of tension the movie might have had a chance of building.

You've probably heard that the ending is bad and ruins this movie.
That's half true. The ending is bad, and the "twist" is predictable and
stupid. It also renders one character who really did nothing at all in
the movie completely pointless. But the ending didn't ruin this movie.
In order for the ending to ruin the movie, the movie leading up to the
ending would have needed to be worth something. For example, the ending
is what ruined The Devil Inside. The Devil Inside wasn't a great movie,
but what really destroyed it was the fact that it stopped 75% of the
way through with basically a "come back and see The Devil Inside 2 to
get the other 25% of this movie".

But this movie never worked, not even for a moment. It's a bunch of
cheap scare gimmicks strung together without any real tension behind
them. The wobbly camera is more irritating than it is skillful
craftsmanship. And when the movie isn't showing extreme close-ups, the
screen is just black so you can't see anything. It takes more than not
showing anything to be legitimately scary or tension-building. There
has to be a threat of something that you can't see, and this movie
fails on this count by cranking up the main character's freak-out
factor to 110% from the outset before there's even anybody in the
house.

Yes, you can explain her ridiculous behavior once you get to the end,
but the point is that the first part of the movie doesn't take you
along for the ride, because it's impossible to really relate to this
girl. You'd expect the air conditioner clicking on to send her into one
of those fits of trying to control a scream, and the movie doesn't add
to this in the parts I already mentioned where nobody ever actually
follows her anywhere.

Bottom line: this movie is a worthless piece of junk. The ending didn't
ruin it, because the movie had nothing of quality in it to start with.
<|_=00=_|>
Sarah (Elizabeth Olsen) is helping her father (Adam Trese) and uncle
(Eric Sheffer Stevens) to renovate the family's old lakeside house
before selling it. It's a place they have rarely visited in years.
Local kids have smashed all the windows and blown the electrics meaning
that the boarded up windows let in no light. The only light available
is that which comes from a torch or hand-held lamp. While in the semi
darkness and after her uncle has left for the day, Sarah hears a noise
which her father goes to check out. He never returns. Sarah is left
alone in the house with someone or something out to get her and her
family and no way out.

The whole film was shot in such a way as that it looks like one
continuous shot. I noticed the odd cut here and there but overall the
idea is very successful. It genuinely feels as though Elizabeth Olsen
is in the house for 85 minutes, running, hiding from and fighting
whatever is after her. Using just one camera, Olsen is on screen for
about 84 of the 85 minutes and has to carry the entire film. She does
so with great aplomb. The one shot idea isn't original and indeed the
film itself is a remake of a 2010 Uruguayan film but it's a nice
gimmick that is well used.

The house is brilliantly dressed to maximise the creepy feeling. It
creaks and whistles and is filled with all manner of sinister fittings
from old furniture and toys to large objects under sheets and unknown
items half hidden in the shadows. It also feels a little maze like
though you get to know your way around as the film progresses.
Elizabeth Olsen is dressed in typical horror attire with a tight white
vest which shows off her 'ample talents' as well as the blood and dirt
she accumulates throughout the film. Her performance is also mind
blowingly excellent. She was superb in Mary, Marcey, Marlene and if
anything even better here. She starts off a bit slowly but after twenty
minutes goes all the way up to eleven where she stays until the final
few moments during which she is pushing twelve. She is even better at
the end than she was during the rest of the film.

So far, so good then. Unfortunately there are two major problems. The
first is that it is nowhere near scary enough. I get scared by
everything and I didn't jump once. Don't get me wrong, it's scarier
than Dark Shadows but so is my girlfriend in the morning. For a proper
'scary' horror, it didn't produce the scares it needed to. There was
plenty of tension but it didn't go anywhere. My second problem is that
I worked out part of the twist after about eight minutes and had
unravelled everything by the mid point. The film still ended in a
satisfying way but I felt where we were heading was fairly obvious. On
the other hand, my girlfriend said she thought about it at the
beginning but it didn't totally click with her until the end so maybe
I'm in a minority.

Overall the film will be best remembered for its clever cinematography
rather than for its scares. It's a nice idea but the plot has been done
a thousand times. It creates plenty of tension and intrigue but doesn't
deliver the final blow. Elizabeth Olsen continues to impress and I look
forward to seeing her again soon.

www.attheback.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
SILENT HOUSE (2012) ** Elizabeth Olsen, Adam Trese, Eric Sheffer
Stevens, Julia Taylor Ross, Haley Murphy. Fairly effective chiller with
Olsen as a young woman in a sort of homecoming who is helping her
father get a piece of real estate ready for an impending sale and finds
herself trapped when a home invasion occurs (or does it?) The real-time
one-take gimmick employed by intrepid married filmmakers Chris Kentis
and Laura Lau (who adapted from a film by Gustavo Hernandez) is rather
smoothly transferred with impeccable camera-work by Igor Martinvoic yet
the premise taxes the nerves (and not in the way it should i.e.
gooseflesh/hair-on-end spookiness) by the story's (anti)climax that
upends psychological horror instead of its ghost-story approach of
things-that-bump-in-the-night in spite of its leading lady's full-on
embodiment to a finely tuned pitch of believable angst and genuine
terror.
