
I never ever tried to write movie review but for this movie I made
exception.As for me it was hilarious the jokes the acting all
original.people have to judge the movie by the current age and content
standard we are watching over the cinema or TV.Now days its very
difficult to find such a movie where you will laugh like a kid. If you
want to watch this movie watch it like a dumb kid not like a rocket
scientist.Don't behave like over smart ass critics looking into so much
deep for something which isn't there and then blame it on the
movie.This movie is for fun for few good laughs not intent to win The
Oscar.Like a meal at the food truck as compare to fine five star
restaurant.So for me I will rate the movie 8 out of 10 .Have fun guys.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I loved the first one. My absolute favorite Christmas
movie of all time. Most other Christmas movies are about magic and all
that. How about some realism, dosed with cynicism, sarcasm, curses and
other insults? Now that's what Christmas deserves and that's what we
all deserve for Christmas. 

Some of the comments referred to the first movie as *the original*. Not
quite accurate, because this is no remake. 

Two reasons I liked this one too:

- Billy Bob & Tony Cox .. a dream combo .. foul mouthed and screwed up
to the bone. I'd watch these guys just sit opposite each other and talk
trash to each other for days.

And one more thing: Of course this movie can't beat the first one.
Also, it doesn't need to. It's fun. That's what any holiday should be
about. I had fun watching it. Merry Christmas!

6.4/10
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I both really enjoyed Bad Santa. The original was just that
- original. Billy Bob Thornton was great as the "done with it all"
character, Willy was funny, Thurman was perfect and the story made some
sense. Rob a big department store of its biggest take of the year.

This appalling "sequel" is juts a really bad remake of the original.
Same main characters but this time I just don't buy Billy Bob's
irredeemable scumbag. Willy is just primarily annoying. Making Thurman
do what they make him do is unforgivable and introducing Billy Bob's
mum (an actress barely 5 years older than him) as an explanation for
why Billy Bob is the way he is is ridiculous.

The story is the same as the original, just a different outfit to rob
(a charity this time, to make it more cruel!!) but the jokes aren't
funny, the characters hollow versions of their originals, the "Billy
Bob likes anal sex with big girls" shtick doesn't work this time and
the story is just banal.

I was really looking forward to seeing this. And now I wish I hadn't. A
waste of the talent involved. Do yourself a favour - find a cheap DVD
of the original and enjoy. Watching this one will ruin your whole day.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bad Santa 2" is frequently hilarious, if one enjoys raunchy
no-holds-barred humor. In a world of oppressive mandates for
politically correct action, speech and thought, it is a breath of fresh
air, mercilessly lampooning every liberal sacred cow imaginable. 

It is not a great film. "Bad Santa" was amusing, but not particularly
memorable and the sequel will undoubtedly also quickly fade from
memory. The plot is largely familiar. The characters don't grow
emotionally and are roughly as misanthropic, misogynistic, cynical,
self-destructive, abrasive, etc., at the conclusion as they were at the
start. It succeeds in creating humor by placing ridiculous characters
in improbable circumstances. The humor is bawdy, uninhibited and
confrontational. The jokes would make Lenny Bruce blush. 

The film fails to rise above its station in its use of alcohol and
nudity. Alcohol can be used for burlesque effect by turning a normally
staid individual into a stumbling clown, or it can be used to strip
away the character's inhibitions, exposing raw anger, resentment, fear
and other emotions for all to see, as in "Who's Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?" Nudity can be used for titillation, or make the character seem
vulnerable, primal or honest, as in "Teachers." 

BS2 uses uninhibited, unrestrained, brutally honest language to convey
the frustrations, anger and other emotions of the characters. It is at
times shocking or amusing, but consistently honest. But alcohol does
not strip away any emotions or public façades, as these characters have
no inhibitions to strip away. The brief nudity seems immature and
puerile compared with the dialogue. One character has on-camera sex in
half a dozen scenes with several different partners, with both partners
fully dressed (at least from the camera's POV). This is an actor known
for a highly erotic scene in a 2001 film. What little nudity is
presented in the film seems cheesy and dishonest compared with the
brutally honest dialogue. 

The film delivers more laughs than many comedies. Production values are
adequate. Performances are uniformly excellent. The script is
underdeveloped with several major plot holes. It isn't destined to
become a classic, but succeeds admirably as a raunchy celebration of
political incorrectness.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this. I tend not to have particularly high standards
when watching movies. I expected a degenerate comedy, chock full of
inappropriate humour and also laced with profanity. There were also
countless scenes that made one want to laugh and throw up a little,
given how distasteful they were! (Which is great!) 

I wanted to see more of Bad Santa, the little person, and Therman
Merman! Bad Santa 2 did not disappoint! I was laughing throughout. I'm
not one to look at movies through a critical lens. Even so, I could see
this movie wasn't as good as the first one, in terms of overall plot
and character development. 

Nonetheless, I got to see my favourite characters one more time on the
big screen. And I laughed throughout. It was like seeing old friends
again!
<|_=00=_|>
For those who despised this film, I respect your opinion and please
don't hate me. Because I found this film entertaining, would I consider
this a great film heck no, but would I consider it to be a bad film,
certainly not. Bad Santa 2 is a film to me to watch with your friends
and have a big laugh.

Years after the events of the first Bad Santa(2003), down on his luck
Willie(Billy Bob Thornton) is pulled back for another heist by his
former partner Marcus(Tony Cox) and his estranged mother(Kathy Bates).
Willie has got nothing else going for him, except for Thurman(Brett
Kelly) who is now grown, but acts like a lost child. And it's during
the time of Christmas, so Willie has to put on the Santa outfit again.

I saw very little of the first Bad Santa, and probably should have
watch all of it before watching the sequel. Billy Bob Thornton, Tony
Cox, and Kathy Bates all have funny chemistry. They are all despicable
people, but that is what makes them funny. Thornton is a drunk foul
mouth character, but you know there is a good person hiding in there
somewhere. Christina Hendricks is also amusing here, she and Thornton
have funny scenes. The movie does have a lot of raunchy jokes, but I
laughed cause the deliver was perfect. My only real problem here is the
Thurman character played by Brett Kelly. They could have done so much
more with that character, instead the writers took the lazy way out
with him. But all in all an entertaining film, you go in expecting
nothing more, nothing less.
<|_=00=_|>
"It's starting to feel like Christmas." Willie Soke (Thornton) has been
living a whiskey filled existence since the double cross he experienced
during Christmas a few years ago. When his old partner shows up and
wants him to get back into the game he agrees because he's Willie.
After realizing that their new partner is his mother (Bates) he second
guesses the entire thing, but the chance of stealing millions changes
his mind. Everything is going to plan, until Thurman shows up. This is
a movie that I changed my opinion on after watching the special
features, which never happens. While watching it I did laugh, but it
was basically the exact same movie as the first one. No twists were
surprising and even most of the jokes were reused. I loved the first
one and did enjoy this but kept thinking, this is just another sequel
that seemed to be made to make money off a name and that's it. While
watching the features Billy Bob said that this is a movie made for fans
of the original. He said the movie was made with them in mind and if
they get new fans that's great but it wasn't the goal of the film.
After hearing that context I have to think the movie did what it set
out to do. That being said, if you liked the first one you will like
this as well, nothing new but just a funny movie with heart that is
worth your time. Overall, basically a remake of the original, but I did
laugh quite a bit. Not as good as the first one at all but worth seeing
if you are a fan of the first one. I give this a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Santa 2 is definitely not as good as the original in fact the first
time I watched it I really disliked it it was not funny,over the top
with the crude humor and Billy Bob Thornton seemed like he didn't want
to be in the movie like he didn't commit to the role this time around
but with a second viewing I was wrong he was decent as Willie Soke not
as good as in the original of course in that he was hilarious and you
couldn't help but laugh at every filthy word that came out of his
mouth. They also introduce Willie's mother in this who is played by
Kathy Bates and she was pretty good in this actually but the best thing
about this movie in my opinion was Thurman Merman he was just as funny
as ever to me and he talked more which is good that's what I wanted to
see because in the first one it took him awhile to say anything I mean
it still was good and when he did talk it was funny but here it seems
like they developed his character a bit more. This is pretty much the
same thing as the first one except it's a charity this time and he
reluctantly works with his mother who he hates. If you're a fan of the
original I'd say check it out you won't be disappointed it's a funny
sequel and it definitely delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
It will come as a shock to very few people that this film is extremely
crass and vulgar, with about as lame a plot as one can imagine.
Obviously, it's meant to be the darkest of comedy, but comedy usually
means to me actually laughing at something but this movie is so bleak
and intent on shocking that the effect was just cringe inducing and a
real turnoff. I'm aware that the film will have its proponents, so more
power to you but I can't subscribe or buy in to this mean-spirited
crapola.

All in all, this sequel, directed by Mark Waters with a screenplay from
Johnny Rosenthal and Shauna Cross, did nothing for me and the end
couldn't come soon enough.
<|_=00=_|>
BEWARE OF FALSE REVIEWS & REVIEWERS. SOME REVIEWERS HAVE ONLY ONE
REVIEW TO THEIR NAME. NOW WHEN ITS A POSITIVE REVIEW THAT TELLS ME THEY
WERE INVOLVED WITH THE FILM. IF ITS A NEGATIVE REVIEW THEN THEY MIGHT
HAVE A GRUDGE AGAINST THE FILM . NOW I HAVE REVIEWED OVER 200 HOLIDAY
FILMS. I HAVE NO AGENDA. I AM HONEST! 

Don't get me wrong. The original "Bad Santa" is a film I love to watch.
Today when we were watching it struck me that there were 3 Academy
Award Winners in "Bad Santa 2" Kathy Bates Won Best Actress for
"Misery" Octavia Spenser won Best Supporting Actress for "The Help".
Billy Bob Thornton won An Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay
for "Sling-blade"

So why it is obvious all of them must of been paid well to do this
film. Now I loved the original film. This film is okay but I will not
go out of my way to watch it again!

In this film its been 10 years since the events of the original film.
Fueled by cheap whiskey, greed and hatred, Willie Soke (Billy Bob
Thornton) teams up with his angry little sidekick, Marcus, to knock off
a Chicago charity on Christmas Eve. Along for the ride is chubby and
cheery and now grown-up Thurman Merman, a 250-pound ray of sunshine who
brings out Willie's sliver of humanity. Mommy issues arise when the
pair are joined by Willie's horror story of a mother, Sunny Soke, who
raises the bar for the gang's ambitions, while somehow lowering the
standards of criminal behavior.

There is some big laughs in this film. There is just not as many as the
first one. I was disappointed because the first one was a laugh a
minute! This film is RATED R so parents keep children away from this
film.

KEEP IN MIND if you don't like crude behavior then don't watch this.
This film is raunchy but I could not help but to laugh.
