
There's nothing to it, if all you're looking for
witty/clever/subtle/deep humor, and you hate sexual/stupid/slapsticky
type humor...you will probably still like We're The Millers.

It's not a gold mine of comedy by any means, but it did the job it told
us it would do: Make us laugh and give us a fun ride. They really
brought together a dysfunctional family and did it in a way that
allowed for some suspension of disbelief. A lot of comedies nowadays
have those hit or miss scenes where you either laugh, or you just can't
suspend your disbelief and you're sitting there like "Really? Really?
She's gonna poop in the sink?" (guess the reference). We're The Millers
is pretty much a compilation of those kinds of scenes that hit just the
right tone to pull it off as funny, clever and it just kinda grows on
you. 

The "family" we see on screen for most of the surprisingly high 109
minute runtime is in a lot of ways funny, in some ways disgusting, and
in a few ways charming. The film just works with the pairing of
Sudeikis and Aniston, as we saw for a tiny bit in Horrible Bosses,
which to me is one of the funniest movies in a long while. If you liked
Wedding Crashers, or Hot Tub Time Machine, chances are you'll like this
one, which was written by the 4 screenwriters who worked on those
films. The 2 pairs of writers who have a history with comedy throw some
subtle humor in the dialog which you probably won't get if you're not
paying enough attention, which allows for every comedy lovers dream: To
be laughing out loud, then hearing an ever so subtle joke causing you
to laugh harder, then hearing another one and another and another. The
film was consistently funny in a sense that when it got me, it REEALLLY
got me.

Overall, the film is just a slight bit lovable, with characters you
actually kinda like...not too common for a modern comedy. More so than
the story, the laughs came interspersed well enough to where I can't
complain because I did way more laughing than I expected. It wasn't
"rolling on the floor" funny, but I did have some hearty laughs out
loud.

Recommended to anyone who enjoyed the previous works by the
screenwriters.

7/10

EDIT: I ended up seeing it a second time and tried to pay attention to
all of the funny subtlety of one-liners and witty remarks by characters
throughout, and I laughed very hard at quite a few things I didn't
catch the first time. I liked it more the second time and raise my
rating to an 8/10. Is truly a very funny film.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was really excited to see this movie when I saw the trailer, because
I thought it looked hilarious, and I'm a huge fan of Jason Sudeikis and
I absolutely adore Jennifer Aniston, and I can guarantee that it does
not disappoint. It was actually better than I was expecting it to be,
because you don't usually expect much from drug dealing comedies. The
plot in this was actually pretty clever, and to be honest Will
Poulter's character Kenny really makes the entire movie. He played it
so well, and he was perfectly awkward and strange, it was hilarious. It
was definitely one of the best comedies I've seen in a while. Sure it
did have some corny moments that are unrealistic, but I overall enjoyed
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit I didn't expect to like this movie as much as I did. I
laughed during the whole movie and truly didn't notice how did the time
pass by. For me this is the best American comedy I've seen in the past
couple of years. Very well directed, very good cast. The movie is very
casual but at the same time so full of content. I can't come up with
any flaws in it. It was not gooey like you would normally expect.
Jennifer Aniston was just marvelous as always. I also liked Will
Poulter very well. 

I recommend the film to everyone, not only comedy lovers (I'm surely
not one of those).
<|_=00=_|>
Went to hate it, left loving it. Great funny "real" movie. Starts and
ends like everyone movie, you know it from the beginning, but the
laughs and the experiences this gang faces is well don. Not over the
top , just laughs and a somewhat sentimental story. Not sure why all
the bad reviews, went in with an opened mind and walked Out laughing
and talking with friends about how much we enjoyed it. I encourage
anyone in the edge to go catch this film. Good for Jen and good for
Jason, more daughter and this would be great. Kenny almost stole the
show... Man has no heart finds family and gains one. Worth watching Do
it!
<|_=00=_|>
We're the Millers is going to make you laugh. The movie is more
hilarious than you would think. You will be surprise how creative some
of those "stupid", funny and ridiculous scenes are. The girls are doing
a great job. Emma Roberts as an angry teen with a big mouth and
Jennifer Aniston as a sexy stripper with mother instincts. Loved the
stripper scenes with Jennifer who looks as hot as ever. Kenny (Will
Poulter)is just so perfect for the part of virgin, sweet teenage guy
and of course Jason Sudeikis as David - the drug dealer - is the one
and only who can pull that character as good as he did. The Millers are
just the perfect "family". They picked just the right people for this
comedy. You can expect dirty, funny, sexy, ridiculous! Just go and see
it so you can have a good summer laugh!
<|_=00=_|>
Its supposed to be a funny summer movie and it is. It delivers laugh
out loud jokes with lots of sexual undertones and overtones. The story-
line is set up for an off beat road movie; pick up a smidge of Mary
Jane South of the border, down Mexico way and return it to Denver to
pay off a debt to the drug dealer. Jason Sedakis is the drug dealer. He
assembles a unlikely cast of characters as an ersatz family and off
they go to Mexico. Jennifer Anniston plays a stripper, recruited to be
the mom, and of course, she ends up in various situations wearing
skimpy costumes and making penis jokes. What more could you possibly
want?The other family members are a nerdy boy and a homeless girl. Both
of them are hilarious for different reasons, the nebbish kid is
sincere, honest and of course a willing dupe for all of the drug
dealers schemes. Tension is added to the film by the appearance of a
drug dealer who has been tricked into allowing his product to be sold
to the wrong dealer and a DEA Agent and family that the Millers happen
to befriend.
<|_=00=_|>
I came into this movie expecting not-too-good things about it, and
might I say I was surprised. It involves a drug smuggler who has to run
a job across the Mexican border for a dealer. Knowing he'd look
suspicious by himself, he puts together a makeshift "family" with three
people he's familiar with:his stripper neighbor, a teenage girl
runaway, and a horny teenage boy. They fly to Arizona and rent an RV.
Hilarious complications ensue. Despite their characters and
predicaments, they are shown to think fast on their feet with the bad
guys sometimes, and the bad guys manage to track them down after they
get the drugs, and some DEA agents find them and wind up accompanying
them on their trip.

90s songs and allusions pop up during this movie. It was fairly funny
from start to finish, and the main cast works well together. I think
this was a great idea for a movie! *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
It's amazing to think that nine years ago, director Rawson Marshall
Thurber surprised everyone with making a hit film about the sport of
dodgeball with the Vince Vaughn and Ben Stiller vehicle Dodgeball: A
True Underdog Story. Since then, he hasn't done much worth writing home
about until now with the hilarious comedy We're the Millers.

David (Jason Sudeikis) is a drug dealer who sells little bits to anyone
and uses that as his source of income. Rose (Jennifer Aniston) is a
stripper who isn't living an ideal life. They know each other from
living in the same apartment building. David and Rose are checking
their mail at the same time and as David tries to make conversation,
Rose rudely pushes him away. David is later talking to another
neighbor, Kenny (Will Poulter), as they notice a young girl (Emma
Roberts) being harassed by three older guys who refuse to return her
phone. David and Kenny find themselves in a compromising situation
where their lives are threatened. As they make a run for it, the
bullies chase them down and steal David's backpack that had some
important possessions. The next day, David is called by his boss Brad
(Ed Helms), who forces him into a job that involves David going to
Mexico to retrieve some drugs and bringing them back by Sunday night
for $100,000. While talking to Kenny, a dorky family in an RV pulls up
to ask directions to the zoo. Even though David is rude to the family,
he gets the idea to have a pretend family so they are not suspected.
Kenny think of himself as David's friend and is on board. They see
Casey (Roberts) around and David hires her to pretend to be his
daughter. David then tries to hire Rose to be his pretend wife during
the job, who rejects his offer. In order to pull of the look, David
shaves his face and gets a token white father hair cut and gives Casey
money to pull off looking like a regular daughter and thinks Kenny
already looks right for the part. After being evicted from her home,
Rose agrees to David's offer. For the remainder of the film, David,
Rose, Kenny, and Casey have to act like a family so nobody is
suspicious, and through it all, start to be a real family to each
other.

The film is hilarious and doesn't stop having good jokes, thanks to a
script written by Bob Fisher, Steve Faber, Sean Anders, and John
Morris. They do a great job of keeping the script funny and raunchy.
Yet there are parts in the film where the script is a sense of too many
cooks in the kitchen. There are a couple of scenes that are over the
top. However, the writers all do great at giving the actors their
chance to show what they can do with the parts that were written.

From an acting standpoint, this is mostly Jason Sudeikis's show.
Sudeikis gives a great character arc of David as a drug dealer who
lives for only himself but turns into a guy who proves that he cares
about others. Jennifer Aniston is a riot as Rose, a stripper with a
heart of gold who learns from others about how to care for other
people. Will Poulter is hilarious as Kenny, who is a good kid that
needs guidance. Emma Roberts is also fun as the runaway teen who also
needs guidance from others and is quick to say the right thing to make
the "Miller" situation work in their favor. Ed Helms had played jerks
before and shows why he is good at here as the blackmailing boss. Nick
Offerman and Kathryn Hahn are also fun and a bit over the top in their
roles as a couple who the Millers run into on the way back home.

Rawson Marshall Thurber does a good job as director and keeps the film
running smooth. He does great with handling his cast ensemble and
guides them to having their moments at acting and being funny. He also
does great with making the over the top moments funny and work with the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
The smalltime drug dealer David Clark (Jason Sudeikis) is robbed by a
gang while helping his nerd teenage neighbor Kenny Rossmore (Will
Poulter) in an assault. David has to pay a large amount to his supplier
Brad Gurdlinger (Ed Helms ) that offers a chance to David to quit his
debt and raise some money. David should smuggler a large shipment of
marijuana in Brad's nickname of Pablo Chacon from Mexico to him. 

David offers some money to the stripper Rose O'Reilly (Jennifer
Aniston) and to the juvenile delinquent Casey Mathis (Emma Roberts) and
invites Kenny to travel with him posing as the Miller family on
vacation in an RV to not call the attention of the authorities. After a
couple of incidents in Mexico, they befriend the Fitzgerald family that
is traveling on vacation in an RV and they cross the border back to the
USA. Soon they discover that Don Fitzgerald (Nick Offerman) is a DEA
agent and David leans that he was lured by Brad and the real Pablo
Chacon (Tomer Sisley), who owns the shipment, is chasing them with his
right-arm. 

"We're the Millers" is a politically incorrect comedy that made my
Saturday better with many laughs. The story is very funny and most of
the situations are hilarious. The conclusion is very well resolved. For
those that have not seen this movie yet, watch the credits that there
is a joke with Jennifer "Rachel" Aniston. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Família do Bagulho" ("Family of the Pot")
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Aniston plays a stripper in this movie. I think that's all
that needs to be said here.

We're The Millers follows local pot dealer David Clark (Jason Sudeikis)
after unfortunate circumstances lead his boss, Brad Gurdlinger (Ed
Helms), to have him transport a giant shipment of weed from Mexico into
the U.S. To do this, David assembles a fake family bearing the last
name Miller to cross the border without suspicion. This family consists
of Rose O'Reilly (Jennifer Aniston), a stripper who lives in David's
apartment block, Kenny Rossmore (Will Poulter), David's dorky neighbor,
and Casey Mathis (Emma Roberts), the local "gutter punk".

While this particular story may be original, the way the movie plays
out is completely cliché. When watching the movie you're going to be
able to tell what's gonna happen next as far as the progression of
emotion between the characters. The classic at first they don't get
along, then they start to have fun, then they find out something about
one of the characters that upsets them, yada yada yada. You know the
drill. But I'm very lenient with comedies because they have one job: to
make me laugh and We're The Millers, for the most part, does its job
successfully.

This is a very dumb comedy. There is no joke that takes any thought to
figure out, but the movie never seems full of itself. It's very self
aware and doesn't try to be something it's not. That being said, I
don't know if I would have liked the movie as much if it wasn't for the
cast, particularly Sudeikis and Poulter. Sudeikis just has a natural
charm to him and he delivers lines that aren't actually that great in
ways that make them funny (Also he's engaged to Olivia Wilde, so good
on him). Poulter has the perfect face for this role. I almost feel bad
for saying it but his character was hilarious just because he's such a
dorky looking guy. Aniston and Roberts do what they can with what
they're given in the script but neither of them really did anything
that stood out to me (Except for a scene that was actually rather
uncomfortable after Kenny attempts to flirt with a girl). Also, Nick
Offerman is in the movie for a little bit and has a really awesome
scene involving a mug. None of the other actors really do anything
worth mentioning, which sucks because Ed Helms is in this movie and
nothing with him made me laugh due to the unfortunately weak script.
Really it's the actors that made this movie likable, and the fact that
the b-reel during the credits of the movie is funnier than most of the
actual movie backs that up. 

What you see in the trailer for the movie is basically exactly what you
get: A pretty enjoyable comedy, although nothing remarkable. Speaking
of the trailer, it actually gives a lot of the best laughs away (as
most trailers do) so if you haven't seen it or you don't really
remember it, don't watch it! This Is The End still reigns champion as
this year's best comedy, but I'd say We're The Millers is good in its
own right.
