
Greetings again from the darkness. Why, Billy Ray, why? It's not
surprising that Hollywood green-lighted the Americanization of the 2010
Oscar winner for Best Foreign Language film, El secreto de sus ojos.
That original from Argentina is exemplary filmmaking and a thoroughly
entertaining and compelling mystery-thriller; a must-see for any true
film lover. Even if an Oscar-studded cast is hired (2 Oscar winners, 8
nominations), the guiding inspiration for a remake should be more than
losing the subtitles and filming Julia Roberts without make-up.

The story balances two timelines spanning 13 years. Jess (Ms. Roberts)
is an investigator who works with FBI Agent Ray (Chiwetel Ejiofor),
Assistant District Attorney Claire (Nicole Kidman), and a blustering
District Attorney played by Alfred Molina. When Jess' daughter is
brutally murdered, the investigation is impacted by the suspect's role
as a department snitch. When we catch up all those years later, the
unrequited attraction between now former FBI Agent Ray and now DA
Claire is as strong as ever; Jess' appearance is on par with someone
suffering from a terminal illness, and the murder still hovers over
these characters as if it had occurred last week.

It's a fascinating story that was handled superbly in the original, yet
mostly comes across as uninspired in this latest project. At times,
it's even a bit confusing in how the two eras are handled. The score
from Emilio Kauderer and a couple of fine scenes from Ms. Roberts
(although she gets no credit here for appearing sans-makeup) are the
best parts of this one. Otherwise, Mr. Ejiofor (usually a fine actor)
goes over-the-top, while Ms. Kidman is simply miscast and unable to
generate the proficiency required for her position. Other support work
comes courtesy of Dean Norris ("Breaking Bad"), Michael Kelly ("House
of Cards") and Zoe Graham.

Other than lacking the grit and realism of the original, the editing
and camera work (so exceptional in the first version) at times come off
as amateurish this time around. The soccer/futbol sequence from the
original is replaced with Dodgers baseball (Chavez Ravine and Vin
Scully) and a link to former Manager Walt Alston. Normally that would
be considered an improvement, but again, these fall short and fail to
generate the necessary suspense. A weak impersonation of the famous
long-tracking shot certainly doesn't help.

For anyone who hasn't seen writer/director Juan Jose Campanella's (an
Executive Producer here) excellent original, this version from Billy
Ray (Shattered Glass) might prove interesting enough; however, those
same folks are strongly encouraged to instead track down the original,
and experience the emotional depth and filmmaking expertise that made
it such a worthy Oscar winner.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood, we spoke about this just last week. I know you're young and
I know that sometimes means you want to steal ideas from others and
think that by changing language and adding "stars" you will make
something better but you know it doesn't work. We talked about 9 Quenns
just the other day but now you've done it again. A poetic,
heartbreaking, beautifully acted, thriller from Argintinia gets turned
into barely watchable mush. So, go to you room, no dinner and don't do
it again. And once you have realised the error of your ways we will
watch the original and realise that having to read and watch a film
isn't the end of the world and even better, opens you up to the idea
that the action, the great stories, the films that treat the viewer as
an adult, generally, don't come out of Hollywood anymore. Argintinia
alone has been steadily putting out gem after gem, maybe we will have a
mini fest on that country's output and forget bad remakes for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't seen "El Segreto de sus ojos" I beg you to stop reading
and go check it out, it is, in my opinion, one of those rare and pure
thrillers that keeps you glued to the screen for two hours. Yet,
despite loving the original, I wasn't going into this one ready to
bitch about it. I am someone who is very sniffy about remakes, but hey
if you have an fascinating premise that can be explored through various
styles and dynamics I am all for it. Especially in this case, I think
that keeping some of the core material and turning other parts
completely around could have made for a fascinating narrative,
unfortunately the American remake, with the exception of maybe two or
three ides, doesn't improve, explore or further the original in anyway
and sometimes even edges the shot-by-shot remake treatment.

Look, this isn't a terrible thriller, but the emotional beats you are
carried through are just the same of the original, it really seemed to
be watching a cheap version of it. It is way too reminiscent of the
original and at some moments I really felt exactly when I saw it.
Whilst at other moments I kind of felt sorry for the remake because it
doesn't manage to replicate some of the amazing photography the first
one had and actually miserably fails: this film has some really,
noticeably cheap cinematography and editing.

The performances are all kind of off beat. Julia Roberts is definitely
the best one, even though she also has some low points. The rest of the
cast is just flat honestly. Nobody even tries to come in and give it
some palpable passion. The film is also inconsistent with tone and I am
not sure they understood the fascination of the original because a lot
of the focus points are just sidelined or shoehorned in.

That's also a real bummer, because the film does have just a couple of
good ideas that aren't simply built on. They tread too much of the same
ground and do it in a way that is simply too familiar. I can maybe
think of one thing that was improved upon and that is mainly thanks to
Julia Roberts' talent. The score is something that positively sticks
out and probably the purest good thing to come out of the film.

In the end we are treated to a fine thriller that doesn't live up to
its potential and only manages to justify its length thanks to memories
of the original and the same emotions instead of relevant improvement
and originality.
<|_=00=_|>
The only sensible reason to watch this pathetic disaster is for the
students of cinema, cinematography and everything related, and analysts
(professional and amateurs) as a study. It is not first neither last
time Hollywood butchered great script and created mockery of art. "Abre
los ojos" and "Vanilla sky", "Solaris" (though if you never seen the
Tarkowsky's original it may appear as not so bad) now the Campanella
masterpiece. I can see his name in the credits, wow, is his financial
situation so bad ? Was Juan Jose really part of this remake ? If so
than this is sad indeed. There is no tension, no suspense and sorry to
say it made me realise even more how outstanding was Soledad Villamil
and Ricardo Darin. Shame that the non Spanish speaking world may never
enjoy their outstanding films. Darin is probably one of the greatest
actors of our times. What they created in the original film was
amazing. "El secreto de sus ojos" was a revelation to me, watched it
several times and after that all the films of Juan Jose Campanella and
of Ricardo Darin, that film opened to me the fascinating world of
Argentinian cinema. This thing, reminds me of old recipe from the pop
music world "simplify then exaggerate". Another Hollywood fail
<|_=00=_|>
Having read all the negative and Luke warm reviews, it was with some
trepidation that I we went to see this film, now I haven't seen the
Argentine original, but I did enjoy this one! Kept my interest the
whole time, all the leads were strong and believable, never a big Julia
Roberts fan, she was outstanding in this, I certainly don't agree with
the reviewers that said Nicole Kidman was miscast, I thought she was
excellent, you don't get to be an A grade Academy Award winner by being
a bad actress! Perhaps it's not as good as the original are they ever?
But it stands on it's own, and would be in my top ten for this year
,not that it has a lot to beat? Far as I could tell, everyone in the
theater enjoyed it! Hey! It's a movie, not brain surgery!
<|_=00=_|>
(Rating: ☆☆ out of 4)

This film is not recommended. 

In brief: The real crime is remaking this remake.

GRADE: C+

Hollywood rarely improves upon a remake, especially in the foreign film
genre. Such is the case, once again, in Secret in Their Eyes. Based on
its far better source, the 2010 Oscar- winning Argentine film bearing
the same name, this version unduly complicates an already complicated
plot with political corruption and a terrorist back-story that does
little to enhance the story. Whereas, both films intermesh the crime
tale with a love story between its two central characters, the American
reboot fails to successfully engage its audience with the latter
storyline. 

￼Written and directed by Billy Ray, this film tells the story of an
unsolved murder that has haunted its characters for over a decade. The
filmmaker takes the essence of the earlier film and unlike that film,
raises the stakes by wisely personalizes the murder this time around.
Ray Caston and Jess Cobb are two FBI agents who arrive at the crime
scene, only to discover that the victim is Jess's daughter, Carolyn.
Her death haunts both agents over the years, including the acting DA,
Claire, who happens to be Ray's unrequited love. Throughout the past 13
years, Ray continues to hunt for Carolyn's killer and believes he has
finally found the culprit. He wants the case reopened and to also
reopen his relationship with his object of affection as well.

￼An interesting premise, but the crime story never builds to much
excitement and the love story seems to go nowhere. A capable cast has
been assembled with Chiwetel Ejiofor as the brooding detective assigned
to the case. Even though the actor tries valiantly to add some depth to
his weakly-drawn character, he still comes across as an unhinged
vigilante rather than heroic cop. This character never seems realistic
or believable as written, nor do any of the characters in this version.
A miscast Nicole Kidman plays Claire as an ice princess type and has
zero chemistry with Mr. Ejiofor. In fact, the only reason to see this
remake is the powerful acting done by Julia Roberts as the grieving
mother. The actress downplays her beauty and gives a remarkably nuanced
performance that deserves Oscar consideration.

￼As for the film itself, the script is muddled and the flashback
format's choppiness doesn't help matters. One can only tell past versus
present events by the hair and make-up aging process (or lack there of
with Ms. Roberts). Some of the supporting characters (an unethical
officer, the overly ambitious politician, the trusty sidekick, etc.)
become stereotypes and the dialog is standard TV crime drama. 

Secret in Their Eyes is a crime thriller without much thrills. The
murder mystery just does not blend with the love story and the
moviegoer becomes its final victim. Rent the Argentine film instead to
see how to skillfully combine both genres.

￼NOTE: In my original review (June 3, 2010, go to archives in this blog
to read it, if interested), I bemoan the fact back then that remakes
are a less quality. Somethings just don't improve with age. 

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
<|_=00=_|>
Secret In Their Eyes is a movie that will break your heart for what it
could have been. The best part is the cast. Julia Roberts, Chiwetel
Ejiofor, and Nicole Kidman have garnered attention for their presence,
but we also have doing supporting duties Dean Norris, and Michael
Kelly. The film opens with the brutal death of Jess's daughter. The
moment Jess finds her daughter and the inexplicable grief that follows
is a shattering and powerful moment. The prosecution and how justice
will be parceled out to a police officer, a country, and ultimately a
parent is the crux of Billy Ray's third directorial effort. This case
which transcends from 2002 to 2015 fails to find its center through a
milquetoast romance between the characters of Ray and Claire. The
unrequited love and smoldering passion these two are supposed to feel
is not there, and the film falls through the center. Kidman never
settles fully into her role. Kidman, who excels in more offbeat work,
becomes a stoic non-entity in the film. Ray does not adequately
structure the transitions between time periods, nor do the actors
convey any change in demeanor and attitude to assist the audience. This
lack of emotional tension restricts the audience into a state of
indifference the film does not have the quality or tension to
transcend.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie because of the actresses: Julia Roberts and
Nicole Kidman. Usually they know how to choose the movie they
participate in. With that script they gave them they did what they
could. The other actor "Chiwetel Ejiofor" was not good at all. It is
fine to adapt an excellent movie (The original one is from Argentina
and was a real masterpiece), but at least the adaptation should show
that some original work was done. Even if I knew the story, I found it
hard to follow at the end. I can only imagine how somebody that did
know the story would feel. I do not recommend this movie at all. I
strongly recommend the original one: El secreto de sus ojos (2009).
<|_=00=_|>
The original, "El secreto de sus ojos" is a masterpiece of cinema and
story. Not just the premise but you get to see the justice system of
Argentina and Spain. It's pretty interesting since we are saturated
with the American justice system.Very much unlike the US and similar to
France (Engrenages is a great French police procedural TV series).
People either cannot or will not watch foreign cinema or have
difficulty with subtitles. I understand that it is a challenge in that
your eyes are diverted from the screen, the cultures are unfamiliar or
the intonation can be confusing. Cinema and literature is escapism.
Step outside of the box. I'm hearing impaired and use subs for all TV
programs. I acknowledge that it's easier for me. Hollywood ruins
spectacular foreign films. If American audiences want to see less
engaging movies, there are films for that. And that's fine. We call
them "guilty pleasures" or "no brainers."
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday I have watched the movie " secret in their eyes " starring
Julia Roberts and nicole kidman. . The movie is a remake of the
Argentinian movie " el secreto de sus ojos " the Oscar winning movie
2010 for best foreign movie The remake was not up to the same standard
or emotional impact of the first film .. I couldn't live the same
thriller mystery atmosphere I had watching the original film Even they
couldn't deliver the whole moto of the movie which was that if you
wanna know the secret of a person you look in his eyes as it will
reveal his deepest passion and emotions Neither could they deliver the
deep intense emotional suffering of the hopeless love of the
investigator to his boss In the original movie it was a young woman
brutally raped and killed by an old school mate and the investigator
could point out who the killer was only by the look of his eyes to her
in All her photos which revealed passion reaching the level of
obsession And as the movie went on they showed us the determination of
her loving grieving husband who dedicated his life just for finding the
killer and to punish him by life sentence and when justice failed him
he decided to take matters by his own hands and lied to the
investigator that he killed him but because the latter knew the husband
wouldn't relief the killer by ending his life he followed him to his
house to discover he has held the killer captive in a cage for the past
25 yrs feeding and nourishing him to live and rotten in his prison to
pay for his deeds When the investigator saw the killer in the cage the
killer begged him to just make the husband talk to him .. for 25 yrs he
brought him food everyday and never had a word with him to torture him
even a more torture than what he would have got in prison That was his
revenge and justice In the remake it was a cops daughter " Julia
Roberts " who dedicated her life as well to find and revenge for the
killer and had also kept him captive in her prison for 13 yrs
emotionally torturing him and never talking to him.. they changed the
ending by the investigator giving her a gun to kill the man who killed
her daughter not to take revenge from him but to relieve herself from
the same prison she locked herself into and starting her life all over
again so they killed and buried him The ending of the original movie in
my opinion was so much more intense and served the whole meaning of
revenge even if it meant the husband was locked up in the idea of
revenge with his prisoner as already his life ended by the act of
murder of the love of his life The addition made in the remake kind of
spoilt this meaning and cooled off the intensity of the whole master
scene of the cage and suffering of the killer I give the remake 4/10
and I guess it would hardly win any prizes compared to the 10/10 I give
to the original version 

That's the reason I prefer non American movies especially Latin and
Spanish movies That was my critic review for the movie and if you are
intending to watch this one I advise you to watch the original one " el
secreto de sus ojos " It's a must watch piece of art you won't regret
to watch MINO
