
From TRAINING DAY (2001), DARK BLUE (2002), HARSH TIMES (2005), STREET
KINGS (2008) and END OF WATCH (2012) at which he either writes, directs
or doing both duties, David Ayer has crafted quite a career for himself
as the go-to guy when comes to movie that explores the dark side of a
law enforcement. This year is no different as Ayer explores the same
territory again with SABOTAGE. But what's really interesting about his
latest effort is his first-time collaboration with the former '80s and
'90s king of big action icon Arnold Schwarzenegger playing the kind of
role unlike anything fans have seen him before... well, at least not
since 1984's THE TERMINATOR or to certain extent, 1997's BATMAN AND
ROBIN.

WHAT IS IT ALL ABOUT?

Following a successful drug raid to steal US$10 million from the
cartel's money, John "Breacher" Wharton (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and his
rugged team of undercover DEA task force -- James "Monster" Murray (Sam
Worthington) and wife Lizzy (Mireille Enos), Joe "Grinder" Phillips
(Joe Manganiello), Julius "Sugar" Edmonds (Terrence Howard), Eddie
"Neck" Jordan (Josh Holloway), Tom "Pyro" Roberts (Max Martini), and
Bryce "Tripod" McNeely (Kevin Vance) -- are happy to collect it later
where they hide it in the sewer pipes. However, they return to discover
that the drug money has gone missing. They are eventually held for
investigation and everyone ends up suspended from duty. But after the
authorities fail to land hard evidence against them, their superior
(Martin Donovan) put them back into action. Then, one by one from
Breacher's team members ends up dead in gory fashion. While trying to
find out the culprit, Breacher is subsequently working with homicide
investigator Caroline Brentwood (Olivia Williams) and realizes that the
murders as well as the stolen drug money is actually involving one of
them.

THE GOOD STUFF

As with other Ayer's movies, the action is brutal and gripping enough
to capture your attention. Together with cinematographer Bruce
McCleery, Ayer also manages to create some creative shots including the
one where he utilizes small digital cameras from the tip of a gun
barrel's point-of-view during a shootout.

The overall cast here is engaging, with Schwarzenegger gives a daring
performance as the cigar-chomping John "Breacher" Wharton with a dark
past. It's certainly nice to see him willing enough to change his usual
larger-than-life action image for something radically different. As the
emotionally-confused and relentless Caroline Brentwood, Olivia Williams
plays her role with enough gravitas to stand out on her own. The rest
of the supporting actors, including Sam Worthington (sporting a shaved
head and braided goatee) and Joe Manganiello (looking good with a
cornrow hairstyle), are equally adequate with their respective roles
but it was Mireille Enos who steals the show in SABOTAGE. Here, Enos
brings an uncompromisingly fearless performance as the tortured Lizzy
who is addicted to drugs.

MOST MEMORABLE MOMENT(S)

For all the blood, sex and profanities that showcased throughout the
movie, I can't singled out a moment worth placing here.

THE BAD STUFF

It's a pity that the story here is major disappointment. Written by
David Ayer and Skip Woods, SABOTAGE does look promising with a nifty
concept that mixes Ayer's trademark gritty cop thriller with Agatha
Christie-like whodunit structure (particularly her famous novel of And
Then There Were None). However, the execution is rather poor or should
I say, lazily constructed, as the whodunit doesn't look interesting at
all. And worst, the story drags a lot throughout the movie.

As exceptionally good as Schwarzenegger has put into his character,
there's a nagging feeling that he looks wooden when he is required to
deliver more stilted dialogues than usual. As the soft-spoken Sugar,
Terrence Howard does little to make his performance worthwhile in the
movie.

As much as Ayer loves to showcase a lot of grits in his movie, his
penchant for shaky camera-work feels rather annoying, particularly when
he loves to do a lot of tight close-ups. Another flaw here is Ayer's
over-the-top display of gore and violence that somehow works better for
a hardcore horror movie than a gritty cop thriller.

FINAL WORDS

While SABOTAGE is far from both Ayer's and Schwarzenegger's best
efforts, the movie remains quite a jolting cinematic experience.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is not bad at all, not sure why everyone says it is.
Especially when the review just says it is bad and gives no explanation
other than implying there is no plot.

Most of the Arnie movies are not that great, I love them still, this
one has a bit more of a story that it is following, with less action.
That is probably why every1 is down on it I suppose, it is different.

There are a couple things going on with the main character, he is
trying to get to the bottom of them both. It all unfolds nicely, but it
is a bit slower than what most Arnie fans are used to. To me, that is
fine.

I do not understand why anyone thinks there is no story, there is more
story than action. Could of used more time with the characters,
probably was part of what was cut from the original 3 hour run time,
but it is still a fine movie. Meaning there are much worse Arnie movies
that were more successful. This is like a better version of Eraser,
which I thought was only OK back then. Give it a shot, take it as it is
without some type of expectations, you will not be disappointed. Unless
you are not an Arnie or cop violence fan. If that is the case, then why
are you reading this?
<|_=00=_|>
The whole cast was great don't get me wrong, and i enjoyed the plot of
the whole film, as much as it could have been a little longer with a
few more, twists and turns, it still got the point with lots of gun
fire, lots of "breaching" and lots of cussing for no reason. Arnold
himself being team leader, did a great job, and finished his mission no
matter what, i enjoyed the hell out of this film and i think it was a
come back for Arnold, it wasn't a flop (in my head, again most people
are posting that it was crap and Arnold is done, blah blah blah) This
movie had everything going for it, action packed, lots of good actors,
lots of crazy gun fights, lots of cussing and dirty jokes, i saw a
review that said this is a "guilty pleasure for manly men".....honestly
its just a guilty pleasure for anyone who likes action movies and
Arnold surrounded by a group of good actors, i hope to see him doing
more movies like this (unlike the expendables, which i am not the
biggest fan of) this movie was more about him and less about the other
actors, i think anyone who is an action movie fan, and an Arnold
fan....would enjoy this....so give it a shot. seriously :)
<|_=00=_|>
Arnie:"Hey David, I am bored and was wondering if you fancy making a
movie David Ayer: "I am kinda busy watching the grass grow, did you try
any other directors." Arnie: "Tried them all but their phones were all
switched off" David Ayer: "Damn, forgot to do that. OK I will make a
movie with you. What have you got in mind." Arnie: "Duh!...I was hoping
you would have some ideas." David: "Ok, just round up some actors and I
will get Skip Woods to write a story." He should be able to throw
something together in about an hour." Arnie: "Great."

A couple of weeks later.

David:" Arnie, I got the footage you sent me. It is almost 3 hours long
and I cannot make any sense of it." Arnie: "Oh Yeah!...sorry about
that. The Actors seemed to be stoned and drunk most of the time and we
kinda lost track of things. I suppose that means the movie is screwed."
David: "No problem. I will cut the crap out of it and make some kinda
movie from it. All the blood and guts and shooting should help. The
story or the acting is irrelevant. The morons who go to movies will
watch anything if it has a few star names attached. Anyway, it is no
worse than most of the utter crap coming out of Hollywood the past few
years. I am sure we will make a bundle before the public realise how
bad it is. We can always get some of our buddies to write good reviews.
That always seems to work." Arnie: "Thanks.....gotta go....time for my
meds." David: "Yeah!...me too."

THE END

Note: Save your sanity, your money and your family, and stay far away
from this brutally bad movie. It is seriously bad. Note 2: I had some
time off and decided to relax and catch up on some movies. I will never
take time off again. I am considering therapy to undo the possible
mental damage this so called movie may have done to my poor brain.
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold is back, and at 67 years old he hasn't missed a beat. Sabotage
is the Governor's third starring role since returning from his stint in
politics, and it's easily his best one to date. Schwarzenegger stars as
Breacher, the commander of an elite DEA swat team, who agrees to help
his under appreciated team take part in the theft of millions of
dollars, from a top cartel boss. The heist goes relatively smoothly,
but when the team goes to retrieve their money, they discover that one
of them double crossed the rest and had stolen the pay day. Everyone is
upset and trying to figure out who it was, when the cartel shows up
looking for retribution. As the cartel picks off the team one by one,
the remaining members have to ban together to try and stop them, except
this time, they have to do it knowing that one of them is a trader.
Arnold isn't doing the crazy stunts or fighting scenes that he's become
synonymous for, he's in more of a leadership role in this film, but
he's still the man when it comes to action films. Here he's paired with
the Killing's Mireille Enos, who as the only female member of the team,
gives an amazing performance. I'm used to her always playing these
quiet, reserved, troubled characters, and it was a real treat to see
her break out as the wild girl on a team full of men. Sabotage is the
rarest of Action films, as it is one with a great storyline, that is as
gripping as any drama. The film isn't just about killing people and
blowing things up, it has plenty of that, but in the case of Sabotage,
there is a reason for all of it, and this film will really keep you on
the edge of your seat.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the critics! Go see this movie if you are an Arnold
fan! Unlike The Last Stand and Bullet to the Head, this is a straight
up dark gritty crime thriller with some great action sequences. While
most of the team was unlikable, all of the cast gave good performances
aside from Olivia Williams who's accent was pretty bad. The story was
good and had enough twist and turns to keep me on the edge of my seat
for the majority of the film. The action scenes were fantastic and the
violence was incredibly brutal and gory! This is one of the most
violent mainstream movies I've seen in a long time! Trust me when I say
this movie earned it's R rating! I loved how David Ayer managed to
combine the genres of action, crime drama, and western elements
together while keeping the tone ultra dark and gritty. Arnolds
performance here is also one of the best of his career in my opinion.
If I had any complaints it's that it is true the characters are very
unlikeable and while they are suppose to be, you do get tired of their
crudeness pretty fast.

Very good movie and defiantly worth seeing on the big screen! Don't
listen to the critics! If you are a fan of action/crime movies you will
enjoy this!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite Schwarzenegger's presence throughout, 'Sabotage' is among the
worse films this viewer has seen. A veteran of Arnold's movies since
'Conan', I advise all of his fans--and fans of action movies in
general- -to run from the movie poster. Escape it! Avoid this one,
avoid 109 minutes of foul crud and days of lament after the credits
roll.

"But" you say, "the governator stars in it! Can it really be that
awful?" Yes, my fellow movie buffs, 'Sabotage' is that bad. Why? Well
I'll elaborate. A thirteen year old seems to have written the script.
Every other line (being generous here) contains a jest of bodily
functions, human reproductive practices, or gory gallows humor. The
dominating themes of the movie are cruelty, extreme violence, and
glorification of police brutality. 

Arnold stars as the commander of a DEA "special operations" strike team
(whatever that is), the single positive note here being Schwarzenegger
does wear his age well. Other than that, his delivery of terribly
written lines lack any timing, synchronicity or emotion. We see the old
Arnie trying to shine through in some of his expressions, but his usual
animation and vitality never come through. 

As for the DEA team Arnie leads, well, the movie asks you to care for
them or at least find them interesting as the opening gives each team
member a spiffy nickname that's really not. Although the team is
composed of some fairly large name actors (Sam Worthington, Terence
Howard, Mirelle Enos), each of them is foul mouthed, hyper violent, a
drug addict, or all three. That the moviegoer is expected to view them
as elite law enforcement officers is both a joke and an insult. These
thugs with badges do nothing throughout the movie but kill, steal,
double cross and party. 

The plot, if such a convoluted mess can be so classified, is as
disgusting as the senseless gore which permeates it. Schwarzenegger's
family was slain (gorily) by drug cartel members and although this
tidbit is central to the rest, it is simply mentioned and then brushed
aside at the outset. Silence of the Lambs level gore is flung at the
viewer raising the final theme that human life and friendship and
integrity mean very, very little indeed. 

Alright. So many of Arnold Schwarzenegger's movies have been about
little more than killing lots of bad guys to a sci-fi or cop drama
backdrop. However, in 'Sabotage' not only is Arnie the badguy but he is
a willing leader of even badder guys. At one during the viewing point I
was trying to tally up the deaths of innocent bystanders--there are
lots of them--and the film seems to rejoice in stray bullets knocking
off pedestrians. 

Yes, there's a train wreck of sorts in 'Sabotage' which is about the
only aspect of it that makes sense because the film is one giant
derailment start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is absolutely terrible. The main plot point makes very little
sense, as the basis for the film is precipitated by a completely
unnecessary risk taken by the elite DEA task force.

The characters are abysmally written. Each one has fully embraced their
"gutter trash" personas so that they can be the "best undercover agents
in the DEA". The result of this is that every member of the team is
completely unlikeable, a trait which extends even to Schwarzenegger's
John 'Breacher' Wharton, and I found myself not caring in the least
when a character was killed off.

The female characters in the film were unattractive, in every respect.

Please keep in mind, Schwarzenegger is my favorite action star. End of
Watch is one of my favorite films. I greatly enjoyed Harsh Times.

Did it seem like the filmmakers made an effort to incorporate realistic
room-clearing tactics into the film? Yes, and it should always be
appreciated when consultants with actual experience in a field are
hired to contribute to a film's authenticity. But it doesn't compete
with the nonsensical storyline or the forced, unbelievable interactions
between the static, uninteresting characters.

This film is absolutely terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
Why did this flop, and why is it rated to low!? I don't quite get that.
No, it is not the only movie you ever need to see, but it is pretty
darn entertaining, I'll tell ya.

Yeah, it totally overdoes the we-are-such-a-tight-group-of-bros-(and-a-
sis)-and-we-joke-in-a-rough-way, but it doesn't really get too
annoying. Arnold is good, this is not his usual role, and that's pretty
neat. Olivia Williams is also pretty good. 

Now, the action. This has some intense action sequences, and it is
bru-tal! I mean, this is an R-rating if I ever saw one! Blood is
flowing. I saw a you-tube review of this, he though it was to violent,
it's not. I like me a really brutal movie now and then!

It has a couple twists and turns, action is good, acting is decent, (I
dare you to recognize Sam Worthington!) it is, *drumroll* entertaining!

People saying this is a bad movie, well, they obviously haven't seen
The legend of Hercules. Sabotage is one of several Arnold
comeback-movies, and it is definitely a good one.

As I've said, it isn't a classic, it tries to be a little better than
it really is, but it does not make it that bad at all.
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a lot for me to crap on a movie. Knowing what it takes and the
work involved, I try hard to overlook certain things that aren't
important in bringing a movie down.

But then you have something like Sabotage, that has been delivered from
the mind and pen of a certain Skip Woods. And then you question how
such a person can sell scripts to Hollywood!

Looking back at his writers filmography, I can honestly say I haven't
enjoyed any of his work. They seem to get worse, so god only knows how
he keeps getting more...

That said, I thought I would give Sabotage a go as a fan of Arnie.

Holy hell what a waste of my life. Even at 20 minutes in, we are
subjected to some god awful acting, ridiculously poor script writing
which seems to be appealing to most trailer trash folk that like
shooting guns, an abundance of shaky cam nonsense, and hack job in
editing!

Just a big old NO. Ridiculous. Stupid. Pointless. Wasted.
