
Simply put, this is a future cult film for a new generation. The zombie
sub-genre is one that is so incredibly saturated that it can be hard to
find a decent new film as we have to wade through tons of sewage to
find anything with some value. Thankfully, after a fair bit of digging,
we have one with Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse. It's a film
that will appeal to the new generations of horror fans who were born
into this nutty zombie infested pop culture, and it should also
resonate with the well travelled horror fans who grew up on a diet of
Evil Dead and Re-Animator. It's not going to be a mainstream success,
and it's not going to appeal to everybody but Scouts Guide to the
Zombie Apocalypse is a blast of fun from start to finish.

It's clear from the opening scene of the film that aims to be a bucket
of bloody fun. As a foolish janitor messes around with some laboratory
equipment and comes across a strange looking comatose patient, he
accidentally causes the them to flat-line and awkwardly tries provide
CPR. His efforts are clearly in vain as he pushes his hands through the
patients chest and wakes up the living dead, thus causing the zombie
outbreak.

The comedy in the film ranges from hilarious mutilation of corpses,
wacky animal zombies to plain stupidity, but it is none the less
entertaining every step of the way. Highlights include a scene
involving a trampoline, which had my body cringing in disgust and
almost laughing hysterically at the same time, and a surreal rendition
of a classic Britney Spears song. The climax owes a lot to the gaming
franchise Dead Rising as the boys use the scout skills to craft hand-
built weapons from a hardware store for maximum zombie killing impact.

Despite the zombies being a primary part of the proceedings, it would
have been a shell of a film had it not had the central friendship
between the characters of Ben, Carter, and Augie. We can all relate to
a group of friends on an adventure, and their dynamic has shades of 80s
classics like The Goonies and Stand By Me. It isn't drawing on anything
new but it doesn't pretend to either as it feels like a hokey
sentimental tribute to cult favourites such as The Monster Squad. The
80s are very much beating in the lively heart of this horror.

I'm a horror fan through and through, and the genre needs feel good
films like this, equal parts gore and laughs with a splat of gratuitous
nudity for good measure. At the end of the day isn't that what fun
horrors are all about?
<|_=00=_|>
Horror films in recent years tend to be in the found footage vein, and
Zombie films have been in decline since filmmakers could knock them out
on low budgets with large amounts of CGI hordes of the undead for the
straight to disc market.

Scouts Guide is a modestly budgeted comedy horror with lashings of gore
with plenty of raucous laugh aloud.

The film does open up with a truly cringe worthy two minutes of inept
nonsense with a janitor doing his job, but quickly changes its pace
with the introduction of D.O.D. Christopher Landon (son of Highway to
Heaven actor/director Michael London) has the guts to run with the
laughs and some decent splatter for the next 90s minutes. 

The cast of unknowns are capable and do have the charm and skill to
carry the film over its 90 minutes running time. The film does not lag
or waste any time introducing parental relationships and defining the
social structure of high school culture it exists within its own
universe of undead, scouts, strippers, boobs and pussies of all sorts.
It's well edited, the script is tight,the photography is bright and
clean and is definitely worth a viewing.

I just hope the producers don't plan a long series of low budget
pointless sequels and just let the film find its own appreciative
audience over the coming years.
<|_=00=_|>
With no expectation at all for this film. Turned out it's so much
better that just another silly class B zombie clone.

And it's not just particular part, but for overall writing, directing,
shooting, lighting, acting, music, etc. 

The opening gives me the tense and the acting of Janitor (Blake
Anderson) is really great. Other male casts are alright, but could be
better. I know they need to look "scouts" but come on, these are the
guys saving the world :)

The acting of Sarah Dumont is so cool and tough, very nice. And I wish
to see more Halston Sage (who wouldn't?) :p

Highly recommended if you haven't watch it yet.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed my ass off while watching this movie. I had no expectations
to what I was about to experience and I'm so glad because I did enjoy
it. The last crazy zombie movie I watched was 'Cooties' which is truly
an off-the-wall delight and 'Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse' is
right up there with it. Good show!

The synopsis states three scouts attempt to save their town from a
zombie outbreak. But that's really not the plot. Their motive is to
save their fellow classmates and one of the scouts sister at a rave
party to which the three scouts were not invited. The scouts were given
an erroneous address and they must find the real address before the
zombie get to the rave first. What they go through to get the address
is a laugh riot of grotesque zombie horror that is funny and goofy and
perfectly timed.

Casting, acting, dialog are spot on with the spirit of the movie! Light
hearted crazy zombie fun done to perfection!
<|_=00=_|>
Three scouts, on the eve of their last camp-out, discover the true
meaning of friendship when they attempt to save their town from a
zombie outbreak.

When treated as a B-movie in the zombie sub-genre there is a lot of fun
to be had with Scouts Guide. Are the jokes juvenile? Are their utter
lapses in zombie logic? Is their ridiculous acting? Yes to all, but if
you go in expecting these things you're in for a hell of a good laugh
and at times deeply satirical take on the zombie-genre.

Tye Sheridan has proved himself to be one of the most talented up and
coming actors of his age, with heavy hitting performances in 'Mud' and
'Joe'. Why shouldn't he be able to do a fun b-movie if he wants, he
doesn't have to spend his youthful years diving from one emotional
complexity to the next, of course he is terrific in these roles but it
should also be encouraged for him to change it up. He is undoubtedly
one of best parts of this film and is a relatable protagonist
throughout the story. His co-stars include the at times annoying 'Logan
Miller' doing his best Jonah hill in Superbad impression, and the
amusing Joey Morgan who has some of the funniest moments of the film.
Sarah Dumont is the stereotypical 'hot girl who is good with a gun'
which is quite frustrating as many movies these days lean to the trope
of a female character who can shoot a gun is somehow a strong female
role.

The visual comedy is boundless and has a surprising amount of
unpredictability, scenes have a way of subverting zombie tropes by
bizarre occurrences that make them quite hilarious to watch. Also the
zombie kills themselves are outrageous, owing inspiration from the
likes of Peter Jacksons 'Braindead'. The gore as with a number of
satirical horror flicks is excessive to say the least and many of the
zombie kills are inventive and at times utterly outrageous.

This film meets its struggle on an emotional level, the friendship
subplot is a disappointing disconnect from the film as a whole, the
poor script makes it impossible to latch on to this conceived
friendship on any level, which makes the film proposed emotional core
fall flat. Also on many levels this film aims for the success of Edgar
Wrights 'Shaun of the Dead' and fails to achieve any of it, mostly
because Edgar Wrights film is much more intricate in nature due to the
direction, script, characters and comedy.

However, judge this film on what it is, an absurd and quite outrageous
satirical take on the zombie sub-genre and you might just have a fun
time with it, I know I did. I am going to give Scouts Guide to the
Zombie Apocalypse a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
'Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse' is a fun little movie that has
sadly been marketed rather poorly and was probably doomed to fail from
the get go. It's been a box office flop but it isn't a fault in the
quality of the film. It's a case of the main characters being scouts
(most movies about scouts would generally be aimed at a younger
audience) and yet the movie being R rated and alienating the people the
title would suggest are going to enjoy it. 

If they were going to go with the R rating then they needed to take
full advantage of it, which they do in certain scenes but certainly not
in an overall sense. This had the potential to be a 'Superbad' type
movie with lots of clever and yet vulgar dialogue that would keep the
audience (an adult audience) entertained throughout. Yet throughout the
dialogue constantly feels like it's making its jokes for a younger
demographic. The only time they really make use of the R rating is in
the violence and the odd bit of graphic nudity. The dialogue was the
key let down in this sense and the only way they could have pulled off
the R rating to make this a box office success, and even then it would
have been far from a sure thing.

Box office failure aside though it's actually a rather enjoyable film
for the most part. While most of the humour might be a little bit tame
in nature, it is still often funny enough to keep you chuckling if you
buy into it. It never really works as a genuine horror movie (I don't
think it was ever meant to either) as there never really feels like a
genuine threat to any of the characters. Plus I think most people
accept slow moving zombies are rarely scary to anyone in this day and
age. There's nothing "must see" about it but if you do find yourself in
a position to watch it I think you'll be pleased enough with what you
see.
<|_=00=_|>
Zombie gimmick has become so redundant in recent time, even the mockery
of it created another actual subgenre as it has spawned many clones
this year alone. Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse is as juvenile
as it sounds, some of the jokes are either downright bizarre or
blatantly aggressive. Still, its simple theme and full commitment to
awkward crudity are surprisingly effective on creating a few laughs.

Story is incredibly straightforward, it's basically written in the
title. Three scouts find themselves in a zombie outbreak, and with the
help of a hot chick they form some silly version of A-Team. Characters
are not original. Maybe the main lead is pretty likable, but most of
the characters are absolutely simple minded and comical or
stereotypically comical. Its use of friendship tone is decent, it may
be the only working drama angle here.

The entire movie is satire made out of cliché and some freaky stuffs
way outside the box. Don't bother with logic or continuity, since they
are admittedly flawed, at some points the plot seems shaky at best. As
for the jokes, they are simply brash. This is definitely a visual
clobbering as well as a jab at genre's silliness. Those wanting
maturity or deep psychological study will find themselves lost.

It's similar to humor from gag website or forum comment threads,
coupled with mandatory bloody gore and obtuse use of breasts and
buttocks for viewer's pleasure. Normally this kind of overwhelming
sensory overload can be appalling, yet the movie is unapologetically
bizarre that the comedy works more than it falters.

This is a juvenile showing in purest form, using primitive jokes,
nudity and even random singing. It should not be this entertaining, yet
surprisingly it is.
<|_=00=_|>
"Yep, zombie." Ben (Sheridan) and Carter (Miller) are about to graduate
high school and are ready to leave the scouts. When they decide to skip
their final camp out and go to a senior party instead they think they
are in for the night of their lives. What they find when they head back
to town is something neither of them could have imagined. It is now up
to them to save the town from zombies. This movie is just a ridiculous
and fun as it sounds. The movie is mindless but entertaining. That is
what makes this one so fun to watch. Gory, comedy, a pretty funny idea
and great timing make this one of the better horror comedies to come
out in a while. There really isn't a whole lot to say about this movie
other than if you are renting this for your teenager I would preview it
first. Overall, if you like movies like Tucker and Dale vs. Evil and
Cooties you will love this one as well. A movie you can easily watch
over and over. I give this a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse lacks any sort of novelty and it
doesn't quite flourish its ultimate conceit. But isn't this the most
enjoyable zombie movie I've seen in a while? There hasn't been much
zombie movie in a while that's as brutal and deliciously violent as
this one. And zombie cats! Why not? Maybe it's just my hangover from
last Halloween. Either way, it's somewhat like a relic from the 80's,
specifically from its tropes to its aesthetics (albeit some lens flares
and digital blood.) It won't change your life or anything, but if you
seek for some dumb adventurous schlock (with some teen comedy
vulgarity,) then this movie knows how to deliver that kind of pleasure.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of comedy horrors then I'm pretty sure you will like
this film, although it is very entertaining it is certainly nothing we
haven't seen before. 

The film follows three scouts (Ben,Carter & Augie). Ben & Carter are
embarrassed to still be scouts but still do it for their friend Augie.
Ben & Carter have had enough one night and decide to leave Augie alone
in the woods as they head out to a party, unaware that an apocalypse
has just broken out which is why their camp leader has not arrived. 

The 3 lead characters are all likable in their own way and I really
wanted their friendship to work. The film has some funny moments in the
first half hour or so but it's once the apocalypse starts when the fun
really gets going. Ben & Carter have teamed up with Denise (a really
cool character, takes no prisoners and eye candy) but they are stuck in
a prison cell surrounded by zombies until Augie comes to rescue them
and the adventure really begins at this point. There is tons of zombies
and the way in which some are killed is hilarious. In particular I
found the trampoline scene to be one of the best. Carter was the
character who made me laugh the most, with a memorable zombie boob
scene and also a great one liner when they run over the deer "hood
f*#*~d Bambi". 

The film also has a good soundtrack which makes certain moments even
more hilarious. The cleaner guy at the beginning deserves a special
mention for setting the mood with a barrel of laughs straight away.

Overall a very fun film which I would highly recommend. This one came
out of the blue for me and as it stands right now it has a good chance
to make my top ten for the year. If you enjoyed this film then I also
recommend Shaun of the Dead (2004) & Cockneys vs Zombies (2012).
