
OK. So I walk in the movie, and Every time the great Biebs comes on the
screen, I hear the most annoying, loud, and irritating screaming little
girls who somehow worship and adore this boy. 90% of the theater were
young girls who thought this guy was the "hottest person alive." So
annoying.

And onto the movie, it is a waste of time, just watching his annoying
confident face, and people like Usher talking about his talent. I hope
so much you wont pay 10 bucks to see this crap. Really. The kid is just
annoying. Please just stay away from this movie. Unless your a 10 year
old girl, this is an utter waste of time.

1/10. No, 0/10, because of the crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly the worst movie ever made. Theatre full of 10 year old girls
screaming their heads off at the sight of him. 

Could not stand sitting there for the entire time. Left early.

DO NOT PAY MONEY FOR THIS. 

I don't even understand how people agreed to turn this into a movie.

1/10, only because 0 isn't an option.

If anyone wants to see this movie, don't pay money for it. It is one of
the worst films I've ever come across.

Im not sure why this became a movie, but im sure it was just so they
could milk money from the current state of how popular the kid is and
get even more money out of him. Never say never is bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie simply because I thought it would be
interesting to learn about the Biebs and because I'd heard it was
actually very good. I was not a fan of Justin nor did I dislike him, I
was just neutral, so I figured it would be interesting to see if I
would enjoy the movie or not.

Sadly, I did not. 

Although it was interesting to see how Justin started out, (which was
like a year ago???) the movie was SO incredibly boring. Half of the
movie was Justin on stage singing his songs (which all sound the same)
and the other half was him having a cold. So basically I learned that
the hardest situation Justin has ever had to deal with was the cold he
cold before performing.

I ended up leaving the theater about five minutes early partially
because I couldn't take listening to one of his songs and partially
because I couldn't take the annoying fans in the theater screaming
every time he was on the screen.

So if you are already a fan of the Biebster, feel free to watch this
movie. If you are not a fan, you aren't going to want to see it and
will be mad for wasting ten bucks on a documentary that could have been
aired on MTV.
<|_=00=_|>
I believe that if I pay for a movie then you should at least stay and
watch it as you have payed the money for it

I sat through Vampires Suck.

I stood up from my chair and left this movie.

This "movie" is some of the worst film making I've ever seen, that's if
you could consider an hour and a half tribute to a prepubescent
teenager while like camera shows his 12 year old female fans a movie.

Unless you're a 12 year old who is currently under the impression that
Justin Bieber is the world's most talented person on Earth the AVOID
this movie.

If you ARE a 12 year old who is currently under the impression that
Justin Bieber is God, go listen to music from 80's / 90's.

If there was a 0 stars option, I would have picked it. This movie made
me sick.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest - I'm not exactly all that up to date with what kids
these days consider "hip". When I saw an ad for this film on the
television, though, I was intrigued. I bought a ticket for myself and
saw the midnight premiere.

I really admire Mr. Bieber and the director of this fine film. What
they created is a honest satire on the level of something like Borat.
Never could I have fathomed that a mockumentary about the music
industry could ever surpass something like This Is Spinal Tap. But
Never Say Never has done just that.

Much applause, Mr. Bieber. I await more great works of satire and
comedy in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
I decided to go see this movie with some friends, just to have a laugh.
We were hoping that it would be so bad that it would become funny. But
it was just awful... I just cant take that kid seriously.

Also, this movie just confirmed what we all knew, JB has an ego even
bigger then Kayne West. The entire movie was like: "Look at me, i'm a
talented singer and a good person! There is simply nothing that i can't
do!"

What the movie forgot to mention is that its his mommies fat cigar
smoking managers that made JB. he's a puppet. This movie could make him
look better, but it just buried him deeper. I'm starting to think that
this was done on purpose because the fat cats want to get rid of him.

Would not recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Right so everyone here on IMDb is pretty much committed to giving this
"movie"(if you can call it that) 1 out of 10 to get it to no.1 on the
bottom 100 list. Trust me, they're right.I went to see it because I
knew there was no way I could criticize this movie without seeing
it.However, the film lacks any artistic merit whatsoever. It is full of
the latest and greatest pop sensations of the Youtube generation, but
all these names and flashy lights are just stuffing in the under cooked
turkey that is this show.At the heart of this presentation is the
message to never give up on your dreams, however the whole movie is
just Bieber smiling, looking pretty and grooming his lesbian hair, and
as mentioned in previous reviews, the theater was full of tween girls
screaming their heads off every time he inhaled or exhaled. Someone
really needs to teach the modern generation about cinema etiquette, or
at least tell them to shut up for 10 seconds. I honestly don't know
what this movie was trying to do besides earn money and add a few more
accolades to the stars names. In short this movie is just pointless.The
3D also sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not even a Justin Bieber hater (though that kind of surprises me
because he is the exact type of thing I usually rail against on my
blog) but I feel like I need to take a 12 hour shower after watching
this useless, horrible disgusting piece of "entertainment" with my
sister. Yeah I like to hang out with my sister and we BOTH wanted to go
see this movie thinking we'd at least get a laugh. Boy was I wrong,
this was just awful. His performance is terrible, it's as if this vain
little pubeless kid thinks all he has to do is stand there and let 10
year old girls scream at his stupid haircut. The songs are terrible,
there's a few attempts to create visual spectacle of some sort but all
of it is just awful and pointless. LOL to the reviewer who referred to
him as "Miss Bieber" that's awesome. Way more entertainment out of that
one joke than I got out of this entire pointless vain movie that's for
sure.
<|_=00=_|>
This review is not coming from someone who is giving this film(if you
call it a film as such) a 1 because I haven't seen it and I hate Justin
Bieber. This review is coming from someone who did see the film, aiming
to give an honest judgement and to keep open-minded. I love music and I
love film, but Justin Bieber: Never Say Never came across to me as
pointless and I just didn't enjoy the experience.

I did not like how Never Say Never was shot. The photography was shoddy
and sometimes went at odd angles, and the lighting got so much I
finished the film with a very bad headache, which still hasn't gone
away. I do agree about the 3D, I not only found it unnecessary I also
found it distracting. It also doesn't help that the 3D wasn't- like the
annoying narration- actually that good in the first place, in fact it
was really quite bad.

The music and Justin Bieber are also major problems. Not Justin Bieber
as a person mind you, when I saw him performing on television at
Christmas he seemed quite down-to-earth, hard-working, honest and not
too full of himself. I just hate his music and I have never liked his
singing either. His singing is for me rather forced and flat, and his
music especially Baby has me switching off the radio quicker than you
can say "Santa Claus is Comin' To Town". As for the music with
exception of the lyrically powerful Born to be Somebody the songs
suffer from dull melodic writing and uninspired lyrics that made me
think hang on I've heard this before.

I'm sorry to say, Bieber didn't impress me very much either. As I've
said, I have never liked his singing or music. However, he does have a
commanding presence on stage. But... I don't think here he is in
particularly good voice, the singing is still flat and forced for my
liking and his acting did nothing for me. I also hated the audience.
During the concert scenes, the screaming often got so loud that it was
almost impossible to hear the vocals or lyrics, and this audience if
this was humanly possible is more annoying than any of the audiences
for those trashy talk shows(ie.Jerry Springer, Maury). Granted, people
love that and do it for the atmosphere, what I'm saying is that it
isn't for me. Also as part of my autism, I do have problems with sudden
loud noises so while I hated the audience when it came to seeing the
film, being in the audience I think would have upset me more.

The story's structure and message didn't do much either. I didn't mind
that the story was part biopic, part concert feature, but the biopic
stuff does come across as superficial and contrived and I think some of
it slows the film down quite considerably. The message is a follow your
dreams message, I have no problem with the message itself, it's just
that it is not a very fresh one and feels very overly-didactic in the
way it is put across in this film. The dialogue at best is really bad,
some of it is cheesy and some of it is cloying, while the direction is
wretched. The acting is subpar, Bieber's acting is worse than his
singing and Jaden Smith while okay has a hardly credible persona. In
fact, the sole bright spot in the cast is actually Miley Cyrus, which
surprised me as I cannot stand her.

In conclusion, this film comes across as pointless and I just didn't
enjoy it. Bieber fans will like it, otherwise it isn't really worth it.
1/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I feel bad for Ludicrous and Usher for being strong-armed into
participating in this atrocity.

Anyone who liked Bieber will like this movie. Anyone who disliked
Bieber will dislike this movie. It's always embarrassing to watch a
"star" resort to poorly produced garbage like this "documentary" to
scrape together a couple extra million for his bank account, but I
guess Bieber is starting to realize that once he hits puberty his
profits will disappear. Best to take advantage of the pedophile women
who want him before it's too late.

In any event, the popcorn was pretty good, and Usher and Ludicrous are
talented performers. It's too bad the documentary wasn't about them.
