
Well I saw huntsman the opening night, midnight showing. I went into it
expecting something amazing. It was...alright. Honestly the visuals
were really good. I enjoyed the how well Chris Hemsworth and Charlize
Theron portrayed their roles and drew me into the story. The little
girl that played Snow White at the beginning had me entranced, and
everything was going great - then she grew up.

Kristen Stewart as the female lead really ruined the whole film for me.
She was depressingly emotionless and despite everyone in the film's
world wanting to save and protect a otherwise unlikable character due
to the character's performance, left me neither identifying with nor
liking the character. I felt for the little girl at the beginning, who
was easily 5 times the actor Kristen Stewart was in this film. 

Everyone I went with felt the same. 

Throughout the film she is very quiet, and what lines she has aren't
memorable at all (again, no emotion). Chris Hemsworth pours his heart
out to her in one scene, and while she was asleep and ultimately it was
his kiss that woke her...she goes on, cold and emotionless - feeling
nothing for him. Very sad, as the first 10 minutes had me very excited
for the rest of the film - but then it just fell apart when she failed
time and time again to react or become a likable character. 

She acts the same in the Twilight movies, as far as I understand - so
I'll continue to stay away from those as well. The rest of the movie
was a good production, though it dragged a little at parts. To avoid
the same problem in the future, I will simply abstain from anything
Kristen Stewart is in. If you want to see this, but haven't seen say -
Avengers, see that instead.

I'd wait for Redbox on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is good (not great, though), specially because of the visual
effects and Charlize Theron acting. She is great, beautiful,
impressive, plays her role full of passion, as usual. Also I think
there was no need for a 127 minutes picture. It could last less time,
because in some moments I felt like they were just dragging it for no
reason. I expected more, but all the problem is with Snow White choice.
Kristen Stewart is like my refrigerator, no matter what I put in it
(milk, soda, eggs, vegetables, meat), it is and it will always be a
refrigerator. And so is she. She is always the same, no matter what
role she is playing. If she can be an actress, so can my refrigerator.
They are both cold and have no expression.
<|_=00=_|>
As a huge fan of fantasy books and films, I had very high hopes for
this one... Especially when people said "oh, you liked Lord of the
Rings? You'll love this!" The verdict? I now know who *not* to listen
to next time. If your tastes are similar to mine, you tend to read the
books before watching the movies and you don't really follow particular
actors. So, really, I had high expectations for this film - and that
might've been the problem... Charlize Theron played the evil queen well
but I would've loved it if the film had delved further into the queen's
history as several ideas were started but never really explained (I
have a decent imagination but I don't really think, as a viewer, I
should be entirely responsible for thinking up ways to connect the
dots). For instance, why is the Queen able to feel everything her
brother feels? Why did her mother decide to give her the spell rather
than both her and her brother or just her brother? And why, once we get
into the meat (or the attempt at the meat) of the story, did the Queen
spare Snow White's life when she didn't yet know Snow White was "the
fairest"? And if she did know, all the more reason! Why spare her?? The
Huntsman was, I would argue, the best developed character - at least in
comparison to the others. At the very least, you knew enough to explain
his drinking problem and his bitterness... That said, his wasn't an
overly complex character to portray. For exactly that reason, it seemed
more than a little ridiculous that the Huntsman *alone* carried the
romantic scenes between he and Snow White. For instance, at one point,
as he leads Snow White through the forest, he takes a knife to her
skirts (apparently he thought they were getting in the way). Snow White
stares blankly at the Huntsman and it is only once he says "don't
flatter yourself" that you realize the emotion Snow White was
supposedly showing was chaste shock. Granted that, perhaps if I was
more familiar with Kristen Stewart's acting, I might have recognized
what she was portraying, but, on the other hand, I'm more of the mind
that I shouldn't need to know your acting style in order to recognize
so basic an emotion. This kind of jarring (not in a good way) and
unbalanced acting was repeated at the end of the film when Snow White
is crowned and the Huntsman enters the room. Looking at Snow White, one
sees only a blank yet tearful smile, but when The camera turns to the
Huntsman it dawns on you that there was supposed to be some sort of
moment passing between them. All in all, the chemistry existed only on
the side of the Huntsman, leaving much to be desired from Kristen
Stewart's portrayal. And that, of course, brings us to Snow White. The
character seems to borrow much from Joan of Arc to the point that one
might wonder if she wondered into the wrong film. There is an attempt
to develop the character but Ms Stewart seems to be little able to
carry the development of what might have been a very strong female
character. The only hint of real strength comes with Snow White's
battle speech which would've been fantastic except for the utter lack
of build up to this newfound strength of character. So, in spite of the
best intentions, this moment came across as contrived. If only Kristen
Stewart had managed to keep up that pace of energy throughout the rest
of the film, it might have been more believable. So, unfortunately,
though I had high hopes, I actually found myself rolling my eyes
frequently and feeling a bit like I was watching someone show off all
his "super awesome" visual effects - which *was* pretty cool... Just
not enough to carry a story. In conclusion, if you count yourself as
one who likes a good plot, great character development, and strong
female leads... Either lower your expectations or skip this one
entirely.
<|_=00=_|>
Very poor performance from Kristen Stewart. She keeps looking as if she
is sitting on the toilet and doesn't convince nor captivate the
audience in many scenes. At one point in the movie she gave the men a
pep talk, one of the worst ever! Almost all her dialogues are poor and
unconvincing. 

The only thing that kind of kept me in the audience were the funny
dwarfs. Also the CGI was pretty nice. But the bottom line remains,
acting is the most important and especially that of the leading role...

Apart from Kristen, the other actors were OK, but unfortunately not
enough to save the movie.

All in all a big disappointment!
<|_=00=_|>
What a load of nonsense. Those were 127 almost completely redundant
minutes. It doesn't happen often but after about the first third I was
considering leaving the cinema and only the ticket price kept me in my
seat and the vague hope that something might change. It didn't.

Where to start? There was no build-up, no climax (more of an
anti-climax actually) and no development of any sort. There was a bunch
of characters that fit together awkwardly at best: imagine Buffy the
Vampire Slayer, Aragorn, Luke Skywalker and the guys from Hot Fuzz
against the Wicked Witch and the Terminator - that about covers it.
There was nothing that made you feel one way or the other about the
characters since they all had their reasons for doing what they did and
... since it fit the plot it was fine anyway and they didn't need to
change. The whole piece had a plot and general look and feel that
couldn't make up its mind if it was going to be Chronicles of Narnia,
Joan of Arc or ... Pan's Labyrinth? There were, however, a lot of
pointless details that didn't matter to the plot but they were just
there - take the queen's background, take the troll bridge, I could go
on. There were a lot of over-acted emotions, like the queen screaming
at people in slow motion for no apparent reason (both the screaming and
the slow motion); and I cannot remember seeing Snow White in any shot
in which she did not have tears in her eyes.

I still wonder where they wanted to take this picture. Dark fantasy
with sex-appeal and gritty violence might have been a good idea but it
seems the writer and production designers were too busy being
politically correct to go all the way. There are a few things that I
liked, which is why I give the film a 3 but those are just details and
would contain spoilers. Like this the film just seems to try and
capture as many tastes as possible but delivers nothing really. And
then suddenly it's over as if the producer had said: "that's enough
now." Maybe that was actually a blessing in disguise. Reading the
original fairytale is still more exciting.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailers were great, they got me interested, had me excited to
finally see Snow White And The Huntsman but my excitement quickly
turned to disappointment. The movie starts off well showing you how the
Queen came to power and did a good job of introducing her to the
audience but it fell apart soon after that.

The acting was very stiff throughout the film, I believe Kristen
Stewart was miscast for the part of Snow White, she doesn't have the
acting chops to play even a semi serious role like this one. She should
stick to the Twilight series.

The pacing of the film also just felt off. Their are a lot of anti
climatic scenes such as the ending, it just leaves you wanting more or
wondering what they could of done to make this a better movie.

Dialogue throughout the movie was pretty bad as well, people in my
theater only laughed once or twice and that was during a scene that
wasn't even intended to be funny.

Most critics praised Therons performance, but she really just whined
the entire time and was over the top, she didn't really deliver, but
she was the best part of the film.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to find polite words to describe this movie, but I did start
laughing about 2/3 through it, and that's not a good sign as it is not
a comedy. With such memorable lines to call together an army as 'fire
melts iron and it will writhe inside itself....' Wah?? Charlize Theron
- who I had always respected - comes off as a grudgingly aging Real
Housewives of Beverly Hills - wait, no - Orange County wearing bad eye
makeup and screeching in reality-TV-caliber hissy-fit.... and I had
always liked her. Kristin Stewart resembles her MAD cartoon parody.
She's able to play the suffering goth waif, but when her character is
supposed to play fired up or determined, she comes off more as a high
school freshman that is determined to retrieve her math book from the
library before the bell rings for class - not too powerful.... And when
Chris Hemsworth gives a stand-out acting performance as the most
believable character in this manufactured dark 'epic', well.... ya know
you're in trouble.... I do admire the writers' ability, however, to
cram every cliché that has ever been imagined into this 14-hour, I mean
2-hour story. Please note that I am generous in calling it a story
since it actually had no plot. The characters had no depth. I was
hoping that they would have done more with the wicked queen as that
could have been a juicy part, but she was about as deep as the
aforementioned 'Housewives.' The musical score was magnificently
inappropriate for the scenes and built up at the oddest times so that
one would expect something was about to happen... instead we are
presented with a magical deer that doesn't really do anything but has a
white aura around it. However, the musical crescendo that accompanies
this scene makes you think Something is going to happen (it doesn't).
OK - last negative criticism - a fun game would be to take a shot every
time one of the actors unexpectedly breaks into a Really bad and
unexpected British accent. Just sayin. And now I'll say something nice:
the costumes were pretty good - impressive really.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say, when I first heard the news that there was going to be a
Snow White live-action film, I had a good laugh. When I heard that
Kristen Stewart was going to play Snow White, I had an even bigger
laugh. But when I saw the trailer, I stopped laughing. And then I
watched the movie, and knew I had to write a review. This film is not
going to win many(if any) awards, nor will it be a favorite this year,
but it is entirely a good movie. Stunning visual effects, many great
landscape shots, good acting, great action, and a believable storyline.
This is not the Disney film you are used to, but a much grittier and
more mature take on the original tale. You should not take your
children to this film, nor should the intense nature of the film scare
you off. I enjoyed it from start to finish, and I think many people
will too.
<|_=00=_|>
I have NEVER posted a review on IMDb before and I'm so sorry to inform
you that this movie was so bad, I HAD say something! It might have been
watchable but there was absolutely NO way that I could get past
Charlize's horrible HORRIBLE British accent! Thank God for her beauty.

Next, KRISTEN STEWART was just terrible! How she got the lead in this
only God knows! Completely emotionless and a very laughable "pumping
up" speech at the end. And WHY oh WHY does she always have her mouth
open? Every time she was on camera, she had an absentminded look with
her mouth hanging open showing off her horse teeth! Its NOT pretty! It
was just too awful to watch this movie, all I could see were Kristen's
teeth the whole time.

And William? Take him out of the movie and it would have worked out the
same! His character was pretty much useless in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the popular fairytale ''Snow White'' comes the originally
titled ''Snow White....and The Huntsman'' ,an epic fantasy film
starring teen favourites Kristen Stewart (of Twilight fame) and Chris
Hemsworth (of Thor/Avengers fame). Now, detailing the plot shouldn't be
too hard, as we all know the story from childhood- Evil Queen (Charlize
Theron) with talking mirror is hell-bent on killing her 'pure'
step-daughter (Stewart) and hires a Huntsman (Hemsworth) to do the job
for her. The Huntsman takes pity on the girl when he finds her, and
together they become fugitives, going on a journey that involves
meeting Dwarfs. Seven of them to be precise. What follows is a major
battle between good and evil to determine who will reign over the
Kingdom, the evil Queen or our heroine Snow White?

Now, I enjoyed this film a lot more than I thought I would, it reminded
me a lot of Lord of The Rings, from the grand music to the mountain
scenery, and it does feature a few spectacular fight scenes. Visually,
this is an impressive film, however, the film focuses too much on
visuals and not enough on characters, the Dwarfs are glossed over and
never really given any time to engage with the audience, which is a
shame, as the group contains excellent actors (Ray Winstone and Bob
Hoskins, amongst others ). Kristen Stewart as Snow White seems to think
she's still playing Bella from Twilight, (i.e no range of emotions,
just a blank stare for the whole film), especially when opposite to her
is Charlize Theron giving an amazingly dramatic performance as the
Queen. To sum up, a good re-telling of a classic, but by no means as
good as the Disney Classic which most of us remember.

7/10
