
A Dog's Purpose is an awesome movie about a dog's love for their human.
The movie literally portrays so many different ways that dogs are
treated. A Dog's Purpose did an amazing job at building up raw emotion
in a short amount of time. Very similar to the way we felt in Marley
and Me. It is an absolute shame that this movie will be swept under the
rug by many people because they believe everything they read on the
internet. The videos show that "Hercules", the dog in the scene that
went viral, was apparently being forced into the water. Hercules was
chosen to do this scene because of his affinity to water. He was
trained to jump in on the opposite side of the pool to what was shown
in the video. After the trainer tried to calm him by letting him test
out the water and the dog still was spooked, they stopped attempting
the scene from that side. There were multiple people in the water if
something happened. There was even a diver constantly under the dog at
all times. However, PETA and every news organization does not want to
report this because they just hop on a hot topic without any research.
I have 7 dogs, 4 are rescues, and I used to work at a veterinary
clinic, so I have seen so many cases of abuse and a dog getting wet is
not a form of abuse. The movie builds a human's love for their dog, and
it really portrays how a dog is truly a man's best friend. If this
movie wasn't boycotted, I honestly feel like it could have led to many
people adopting dogs from shelters so they can feel the same love that
us dog owners have.
<|_=00=_|>
As a monthly donor to Peta I'm very upset about this boycott request
for A Dog's Purpose. I think this film has great potential to enlighten
people that are very complacent about animals in general and show how
wonderful they can be. To a small child that has never been introduced
to animals this may be a turning point, allowing them to witness in
this film the companionship, love and loyalty animals provide to
humans. Some may never experience this in their lifetime, if not for
this movie. Hopefully taking a child from one that kicks the dog and
laughs to a child that cherishes the dog and in turn becomes a possible
future Peta member. As much as I don't like the video of the trainer
putting the dog into the water I think we should be concentrating on
going after bad trainers and the state of California that allows these
facilities to exist without proper supervision. To boycott an entire
film that I believe is actually going to promote compassion and
kindness towards animals is important here in the United States, and
especially in other countries that treat dogs and other animals as
garbage. Don't join this boycott.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite what TMZ and PETA have lied about. This is an amazing movie. I
saw an early screening of it on January 18th and it is one of the best
movies I've ever seen. I for one do not believe everything I see on the
internet, therefore I had no reason to believe the video that
"supposedly" showed animal abuse. Footage is very easily manipulated.
People need to learn that. This movie is absolutely incredible, the
story is amazing, and it made me cry at least five times. Overall I
recommend the movie, and I recommend you not believe everything you see
online. I had a great time watching this movie, I truly enjoyed it, I
even plan to see it again when it is officially out.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe these people that were paid off or have an agenda
regarding the success or failure of this movie. TMZ and others are scum
for doctoring the footage.

Go see it. The rescue animals deserve their recognition. Perhaps the
dog was not used to the generated waves created by the machine. He
probably enjoys swimming and jumping in pools of water. The handlers
may have not been patient enough or understanding what the director was
trying to accomplish. I'm certain that if you saw the tape of the dog
after the scene was filmed, he was thrilled to be participating in the
water scene. Did you happen to watch Kevin Costner's Wyatt Earp where
there tossed the dog into a man-made river where the dog was doing
everything it could to keep its head above water.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an early screening of the movie last week and this was before the
TMZ video leaked. Let me just say, this movie is actually amazing. I'm
not going to spoil anything but it is honestly one of the best movies I
have seen in so long. Literally my only problem is that I felt like it
ended to quick. People only gave this movie bad ratings because of the
TMZ video. I read through the reviews, no one had actually seen the
movie! I saw it and it exceeded my expectations. I laughed, I cried, I
couldn't take my eyes off the screen. I am a dog lover, and animal
abuse is terrible and should be stopped but that doesn't take away from
the fact that the movie is so good! I plan to buy this movie on Blu-Ray
and watch it again in theaters. I think that everyone should see this
movie because it honestly is such a great movie that i couldn't get
enough of. I want to see it again as soon as possible and I think that
if you're going to boycott this movie because of a video from TMZ
that's not even genuine, then that's a terrible decision because this
movie is great. 9.7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I know, the scandal video made the movie's reputation go down
drastically, but this movie is great! The dog wasn't actually harmed at
all during filming, so there's nothing to worry about. The movie left
me feeling happy. The movie was very enjoyable and I would recommend
that you go and see it. The movie was very touching. I hope this movie
does well because a lot of time and effort was put into it, and it did
pay off, but the video stupid TMZ posted made people come and review
this movie based on the scandal, before they had even SEEN the movie.I
also recommend that especially dog lovers/animal lovers go see the
movie because it's more understandable from an animal lovers/owners
point of view.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a tear jerking, laugh inducing, emotional roller-coaster of a
solid family flick.

While it isn't quite Marley & Me, it was as close as you can get. The
acting was adequate and the writing may be forgettable but the love
between of Man's Best Friend and the many characters in this film is
palpable. 

I was hesitant to spend money on this film after hearing the negative
animal abuse allegations against it, but I found them to be false.
Apparently TMZ made it up.

So get ready for love, pain and lots of laughter that makes this a must
see for every family! Just be sure to take tissues with you.
<|_=00=_|>
*Spoiler alert*

This movie is about a dog who is trying to figure out why he exists. He
goes through 4 different reincarnated "lives" of various types of dogs,
until he ends up finding the boy (now a man) who he was with in his
first 'life', thus ending with his analysis on what his purpose is. If
you see a bad review, most likely they were objecting to that video and
not the story or the movie. Because it is seriously the most
incredible, heartwarming, lovely movie and all the dog's are beautiful.
This movie will have you crying at least 4 different times, laughing,
happy and remembering all of YOUR dogs/pets you've ever owned. This
movie has an IMDb rating that is extremely low because of fear that the
dog in the "k-9 unit" scene was hurt. This is not a rating on the movie
though, it is more of an objection to it. In truth if you were to rate
this on the quality and beauty of the movie and only for that reason,
it would most likely receive ratings between 8- 10. I saw this with a
focus group and all 6 of us thought it was a 9 or 10, not one person
did not like it. All of us-both males and females shed tears, all were
emotional. All said they loved it. And afterward all shared stories
with each other of their own pets they have had in their lives. Go see
this movie. Its beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me state up front that compared to "other movies" this movie is not
a 10 but for what I expected it to be -a kid friendly, fun-loving movie
that is relatively straightforward- it gets a 10. My 8 yr old son and
10 yr old daughter loved it, and so did I. It was sweet and heartfelt.

I cried each time the dog became another dog, and I don't think I am
that sensitive.

In fact, this movie reminds me a bit of look who's talking, in the mind
of a baby but in this movie, in the mind of a dog. It may feel
realistic for some and not for others but who cares, it is a movie to
make you smile and it is definitely not reality.
<|_=00=_|>
those who have read this book will not be disappointed, as always the
book is still better than the movie, but for a movie based on a great
book, they did a really good job. the story is heartwarming, and has a
few tearful moments, but all in all, it was a happy ending. as someone
who almost always cries at the sad movies, i give this a 3 tissue
warning. i truly enjoyed this book, and all W. Bruce Cameron's books,
and the idea of making a movie from such a great book is always
troubling, but the process here was well done. the actors representing
the characters did a great job of embodying the personalities, and no
one can complain about Josh Gad voicing the many lives of the dog.
bravo to the producers and the director for doing such a good job with
the story,
