
I have seen all of Tyler Perry's plays and movies. To me the stories he
tells are relatable to any person. I think that his plays are better
than his movies. Even though this movie was funny, the plot was all
over the place. The rest of the review contains spoilers.

The central character of this film is Shirley. She wants to get her
family together and tell them that she is dying. When she does get them
together the family members themselves has troubles. That is a quick
summary of the movie and here are some key points that I thought should
be addressed. 

Spoilers!!!!!!!! I warned you!!

Cons; Byron finds out that his sister was his mother all along and is
never brought up again. Funny but useless ending. Weird editing. The
preaching at the end by Madea was too fast and could have been done
through the characters. Not much acting just "character acting." There
would be a serious scene then after a funny scene (vice versa). 

Pros: Very Funny!! Madea, Bam, and Mr. Brown always keep you laughing. 

I really do love Tyler's work but I think his should work translating
his plays to screen better.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another formulaic feature from Tyler Perry. You can read the
reviews from practically any of his other films or television shows for
a plot summary. It has been said that Perry's success is based on him
knowing his audience; so what does that say about them? I sat in the
theater and realized why Spike Lee commented the way he did. If I spent
20 plus years making socially relevant material, but this dreck
continues to profit, I would be angry as well. This movie was a
disaster. It made BAPS look like Malcolm X. As a Black man in America I
am thrilled to see another Black man prosper, but come on. We need more
For Colored Girls and less of this movie from him.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this Movie, just as I love everything Tyler Perry has done. It
doesn't bother me to see the negative side of family, I have a family
with a lot of drama and negative and violent things happened to at
least one of us. It's reality for some people. I think that's what
Tyler Perry draws on. With God, we can hold on to the hope and promise
of something better. That's why I buy his movies and plays, he is not
shy about sharing God's word, even if at it's misquoted by Madea. Tyler
Perry produces entertaining morality plays. Why do people get upset
that it is NOT high art? Other movies are fluff and fun and don't have
a decent message. At least Tyler Perry gives us a nice message with the
silliness. 

I appreciate the fact that Tyler brings humor into people's lives. I've
always seen the ability to make others laugh as one of the most
precious gifts a person could have. This world needs more happiness; I
know I could use a good laugh daily. Tyler has created a character or
two who can be a little over the top -zany - but as a whole I enjoy his
work. Laughter is only one thing his films bring to my life. What I
like most is the lessons he teaches with his movies. When she's not
acting crazy and going off on people, Madea shares words of wisdom that
can reach my heart like a good Bible teaching. (Don't ask her about The
Bible, though, because she is not very good at interpreting Scripture).
And even when Madea doesn't play a part in a movie, somebody is going
to say something thought-provoking. I have All of Tyler Perry's plays
on DVD. I will continue to support his work.

danceability-1 Amsterdam Holland
<|_=00=_|>
People are giving this Title a bad review? Are you serious? The thing
with Tyler Perry's films, is that they feature REAL life situations.
None of the fake things you see in most films.

His movie's are REAL. The feature original material that other films
haven't duplicated. This movie was hilarious, makes you want to
re-watch certain clips. 100%, two thumbs up, laugh-out-loud funny.

People that give out bad reviews, JUST because you didn't understand is
childish. Wake up and open you're eyes. REAL MATERIAL.

Movies made my Mr. Perry continue to amazing me, amaze by how his
content seem so close to how many of us live.
<|_=00=_|>
What can you honestly say about the new Madea movie? The fact of the
matter is, there isn't much to say. Why Tyler Perry keeps cranking out
the same movie over and over again with a different title is beyond me.
Not to say that the film was a complete waste. It had many humorous and
heart-wrenching moments. The only problem is, we've seen them all
before. There is not a huge difference between this and Diary of a Mad
Black Woman, Madea Goes to Jail, etc. It's a Tyler Perry move. You get
what you came for. Do not go into this movie expecting anything but a
low-brow comedy with a few dramatic scenes to balance out the humor.
With a man of his talent, it's disappointing to see Perry cranking out
the same old movies with the same old characters. I feel that if he
really tried, he could go into totally new territory and amaze us all
with his artistic talents, but until he moves beyond Madea and the same
old plot elements, we may never know Tyler Perry's full capabilities.
All in all, it was a funny and touching movie but it's been done
before.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start I have watched all of his films. Tyler Perry I implore
you, please! bring us Afro-Americans, etc., more colored girls, the
family that preys, why did I get married and less of this drivel. OK! I
will give it to you maybe 1 of your other Tyler Perry presents,
Madia.... was OK, 7 maybe out of 10.

After the first 5 minutes of the movie, I promise you this, if you are
cracking up and find it hilarious, stay. However, if you watch the
first 5 minutes and think WTF; don't waste the other 1 hr and 40
minutes. Wait till Netflix, wait till HBO, wait till TBS/BET carry the
movie. Do not encourage this, and just to remind you yes I typically
like Tyler Perry Movies.

The most infuriating thing about this is that I know he is capable, as
a writer, producer and director of more. Subsequently, in this movie he
took lots of short cuts, and it seemed like these scenes were shot and
wrapped on the first take. I could excuse it more if this was his first
movie and he continually got better from there.

...at the end of the movie, and I have never done this but I got my
money back, and there is nothing more than what I would like than to
support black movies, any of them Wayans, Spike, Martin, Eddie, and yes
I will still see the next Tyler Perry Movie.

Think of it this way out of a 10 rating there is a reason why the
average is 2.5, ouch!
<|_=00=_|>
Hold onto your hats because you are going for a ride in this movie. I
loved the play and thought that the movie was also excellent.

I've read some nasty, bad, hateful, and very negative reviews about Mr.
Perry's movie here and, I must admit, am very confused. The very low
rating is ridiculous!

Let me break it down this way: If you Love loud foul music, people that
wear their pants down to their thighs with their underwear showing,
kids that disrespect their elders, trashy loud gum chewing women, lazy
adults that would rather get a government check than actually work for
a living, irresponsible folk that think more of themselves than anyone
else, people that flaunt more tattoos jewelry and glitter than a New
Orleans Mardi Gras float, and people that are full of hate and anger
and like to take it out on others (bullies),than you will absolutely
Hate this movie.

If, on the other hand, you believe in God, Manners, Love, Kindness,
Respect, Politeness, Compassion, and other traits that aren't discussed
'out loud' any longer in this politically correct world that we've
somehow fallen into; you should get drawn into this movie.

Mr. Perry somehow manages, with very well written dialog, to have you
literally Laughing Out Loud one moment and then crying inwardly and
sometimes outwardly the next. 

When Madea (Perry) goes off on a verbal tirade of opinion on others in
the movie you find yourself saying: "YES! That is what has gone wrong
in the world". Of course that is between the laughing, crying, and
constant thought stimulation that this movie provides.

Now obviously most normal people (because of the very low ratings on
this site) hated this movie. The only thing that I can say to that is:
"Thank God I'm not of that group".

Don't get me wrong, I love a good special effects, don't have to think,
stunt ladled movie as much as the next guy. But I also love a movie or
novel that is so well written that it has the magic that pulls on your
thoughts and heart strings. This movie is one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never watched a Madea movie before so I didn't know what to
expect. I saw this one last night and laughed HARD!! :) I thought it
was well done as far as topics in the film...family fighting, raising
kids, paying child support, just being decent people. Not only did I
laugh out loud many times, I also cried. 

A few topic I would have liked them to expand on...mostly toward the
end with Byyyyyrrrooooooonnnnnn (OMG--his baby mommy saying his name
like that cracked me up every time!) and what transpired with he and
his mother but that might have made it too serious. 

I don't watch many movies mostly because I am disappointed and find
them a waste of time after. I would watch this one over and over and
sure I'd enjoy it every time. Good job Mr. Perry...I'm sure I'll start
watching your other films soon.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to make a confession. I watch Tyler Perry's Madea films. OK,
JUST HEAR ME OUT! Now, I think they're all FAR from perfect films, but
at the very least, I do enjoy watching the portions featuring Madea.
Such was the case of my latest viewing, Madea's Big Happy Family. It's
a bit embarrassing to say, but let's just get down to my review.

First of all, we have a tangled web of subplots. The mother of a
family, Shirley, is devastated to discover that her case of cancer has
worsened, prompting her to plan a family dinner to tell her children
about her condition. This includes her daughters, Kimberly and Tammy.
Kimberly is a secretive woman (Improperly focused character #1), and
Tammy is having trouble with her marriage, and her two disobedient
children. This also includes Byron, a man on an unlucky streak, having
served jail time for selling drugs, and behind on paying child support
to his insufferably obnoxious ex-girlfriend. There's also some drama
between Cora and Mr. Brown. But leave it to Madea to set things
straight, and not be afraid to beat the living hell out of anyone who
steps out of line.

This movie is textbook Tyler Perry. As always, he gathers together a
cast that could have been quite good, with good material, but their
characters are inconsistently written, and their focus tends to blur
because the script is overly cluttered with subplots. It's not a
problem because they're hard to follow (They really aren't), but it's
because it doesn't give these characters all the attention they
deserve.

This isn't even mentioning Tyler Perry's ubiquitous switch in tone. His
rhythm moves as comedic scene, dramatic scene, comedic scene, etc. I
think the comedy portions are better than the dramatic portions, but
the flip flopping between the two makes things feel dull. At the end of
the day, I didn't emotionally connect with the story like I feel I
should have. For once, I wish Perry would construct a film that's sure
of what it wants to be.

I give it ** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is perfect for every Medea fan, vintage Madea which is why
it has her name in the title instead of "another cheesy black movie so
blacks can feel better about missing the opportunities others took to
give them the right to do so." I am personally sick and tired of seeing
movies that only make blacks look like a bunch of animals who do
nothing but rut and swear,and act all ghettofied. Madeas family shows
that there are black people who have class, and can be dignified and
can take care of things with love and hardwork. Anybody saying anything
else is just a typical hater, jealous of a brother who is making
something of himself. You all are just loving up a pathetic sob story
cause it makes you feel better about your horrible lives. Madea is
Madea, and if you don't like it, don't watch it. Ps: Where's my "For
white girls movie?"
