
I think I know my issue with Judd Apatow's movies.

They're always overdrawn. I think Apatow is a true Auteur, and has
intelligent, stylish ways of telling a story.

Like almost all his flicks, this movie has laughs, heart and drama....
A LOT of drama.

Apatow should either write, or direct his movies, not both. I have a
feeling if someone else took the directors chair/ producers chair, the
movie would be significantly shorter.

I don't mind drama in movies, but when the extra hour of the movie is
filled up with only drama, then I become irritated.

This is a movie you should rent/watch on Netflix. The writing and
direction are both good, but you need to pace yourself, take breaks,
come back later after getting some air, because 2.5 hours is to long
for a movie like this.

This is all my opinion of course, so take it or leave it. 

Regardless of anything, enjoy your night out at the movies, you earned
it!
<|_=00=_|>
I am 39, so I could relate to this movie. There were many fun "lines"
but they way they were delivered falls flat. Instead of being funny and
showing us relevant insights to turning 40 and life, all this movie
demonstrates is a depressing view of angry bitter people who hate each
other. Scenes were just thrown together, stitched up and made into a
movie. The beginning of the movie shows you that both their birthdays
are close together (weeks), but the movie implies that a lot of time
has past. What was that bit about them going away? I'm sorry, but if
you are so broke you have to sell your house, you would not run off for
the weekend. They were all happy and stoned, then what happened to
that? I guess they needed something funny to show in previews. And I
was thinking wasn't it his birthday party? There were many funny parts,
but in between I was thinking, I'm bored and want to leave. Too bad.
This movie made me angry, depressed and wanting to run as far away from
these people as possible. The only really good part was during the
credits when Melissa McCarthy has a bit from their outtakes.
<|_=00=_|>
First off--this is well worth seeing, it is consistently funny--and at
times keel-over funny. However if you're looking for a meaningful plot
that gets neatly wrapped up, that's not gonna happen. Like porn, the
plot was just there as an excuse for the many 'money shots'--the
consistently funny gags about typical 40ish couple's lives.

Rudd's character is suffering a struggling business (and also maybe a
little of 'struggling business'--if you know what I mean). Mann's
character has a business also, that is suffering. Their kids are
dealing with various modern-kid issues--Facebook bullies, trying to
devour entire seasons of "Lost" in a matter of days, etc. The parents
fight, the kids fight, Rudd & Mann each have issues with their own
parents--one with abandonment issues, the other with what might be the
polar opposite of abandonment.

And the gags and issues that arise, I can tell you, are all based in
reality--it's a good composite of the issues that this demographic
actually faces--only depicted with the cinematic equivalent of the
"Photoshop saturation slider" cranked to 11. 

A special mention for Leslie Mann and Judd Apatow's kids--they actually
can act, and they were excellent in this film. They belonged in the
film--not 'becuase their daddy is the producer'--but because they added
big-time in both the many comedy scenes they were in, but also in the
movie's scattered drama moments. Very adorable kids, who blended into
this movie effortlessly and definitely added to its charm.

So that's the plot, and in the end, it leaves you with hope that things
will get better, but never really pounds that point down and gift-wraps
a sappy, happy ending, but it doesn't need to--the plot is just a
vehicle to tow all of the gags with.

And the gags, mini-skits, etc, are very funny, and very consistent--me,
my wife, and most of the theater were laughing through the bulk of the
film (Stay for the ending credits--the blooper reel with Melissa
McCarthy may be one of the funniest of the entire movie).

So that's it--I give it a 8--well worth seeing in the theater, and when
it comes out on DVD, I'll definitely rent it and see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost, this is the first movie I have seen in years that
actually has something to do with my life. I read through the threads,
and I wasn't surprised that people found it depressing. They were
probably expecting to see Knocked Up or I Love You Man. It lacks the
stoner cool single guys being all zany about porn. Instead the comedy
comes from things that forty somethings deal with: mortgage, kids,
hormones, diet, expectations, etc. I rarely get to see a movie about
people my age or having problems and solutions that don't involve guns,
drugs, superheroes, cartoon birds, and people who have 8 figure life
styles without ever having a job. Okay, so he's a groovy record co.
guy, and she has a chic boutique.... Definitely way more California
than my life, but still it is pretty real to life. I will concede that
there are some gags that don't quite work, but like I said: I'm
stickin' up for this one because I think it is getting a bad rap based
on expectations. Thanks to Judd Apatow for making a movie about life
instead of (hip jobs aside) hyper-situational life.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie last night. I was a fan of Knocked up even though
my wife and I fought like cats and dogs after the movie (it was about
having kids. This time around, the movie did only one thing for me, it
made me thankful for my family. Leslie Mann's character was even more
of a raving bitch than in Knocked up. I told my wife that I would have
shoved her head in the toilet when she was trying to inspect it to see
if Paul Rudd's character was really taking a crap or just avoiding her.
He was probably defecating on paper so he could help make this film.
Actually only Paul Rudd really brought anything to the picture unless
you count Megan Fox as a hot boutique worker. The film showcases a
small part of the miserable lives of Pete and Debbie as they spiral
into unhappiness and misery. Into the mix are thrown several more
characters who are equally miserable. I was looking forward to this
movie big time and when I realized that it was going south I couldn't
wait for it to be over. Unfortunately its over two hours long. So, if
you are looking for a way to spend a few hours in the dark, lock your
self in a closet or just close your eyes but do not go see this
film--it sucked!
<|_=00=_|>
Wasn't expecting much before watching the movie, but was pleasantly
surprised. Firstly and most importantly the comedy was not lame. The
jokes were down to earth, made sense and made me laugh sincerely. This
rarely happens with all those stupid comedies nowadays. Secondly - the
topic and the storyline was so relevant in regards to relationships and
families of our society. Though it is a comedy genre - but underneath
that you can fell that the problems and situations that are being
touched are important and worth thinking about. The performances by
Paul Rudd, Leslie Mann and Maude Apatow - were amazing. Paul and Leslie
were perfect, but also my respects to the youngest cast members, as
they were convincing and did their part flawlessly.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, this film seems to be generating a lot of hostility: I am not
quite sure what's behind it. I guess people went into this expecting a
sitcom-like, snappy feel good film, like 40 Year Old Virgin? Or goofy,
happy-go-lucky characters such as Seth Rogen's posse in Knocked Up? Did
these people not see Funny People? I am all in favor of letting Mr.
Apatow develop as a director. To be clear here: this film follows Pete
and Debbie's story arc from a few years after the events in Knocked Up.
The are both turning 40, and neither is handling it particularly
gracefully, but they weren't handling their lives and relationships
particularly well in the earlier film. I found this movie to have a
Larry David Show quality to it: however irrationally and offensively
our protagonists behave, there are always others who will go them one
better (or worse). Yes, Debbie and Pete are defective human beings; but
so, I would argue, are all the people inhabiting this world, excepting
the very gentlemanly Graham Parker (and Billie Joe Armstrong). Such is
the stuff of comedy. Are these caricatures? Surely, and yet they are
caricatures of realities which I see every day. Is the teenage daughter
given to histrionics? You bet, but that is what teenagers are like, and
the fact remains that teenagers turn their parents into equally
irrational and histrionic characters in that relationship; I actually
found it refreshing to find a teenager in a movie, played by a
teenager, who isn't a wisecracking savant commenting on the follies of
her elders.

To sum up, this felt to me like a mature work from a good director.
There are moments of farce, slapstick, and outrageous humor, surrounded
by moments where things just happen. For people who can't handle that
kind of pacing, you are welcome to stay out of movie theaters, and sit
in front of your TV sets: the networks are sure to have plenty of
non-challenging sitcoms that are specially designed to pander to you.
<|_=00=_|>
"Marketed as a comedy this is film just try's to be a moving drama
about a very unlikeable couple that make no sense about the actions
they do and the conclusion of the film made no sense to what the aim of
the film was" 

In 2007 Knocked Up was released and like most people I found it
enjoyable so with this film Judd Apatow decided to take two characters
from that film and stretch them out to try make them more fuller
characters. Pete (Paul Rudd) and Debbie (Leslie Mann) are both
celebrating their 40th birthday's in the same week even if Debbie does
not want people to know her real age. During this week we see their
daughters who tend to scream at them a lot as well as both Debbie and
Pete's businesses failing and neither one of the two able to be true to
themselves blaming everyone else for their problems.

This film from minute one was insufferable for me because of how
annoying Debbie was as soon as she was on screen. She seemed to act
insane about being 40 which is not that old but that is just how the
character is written to be. The film is way too long for the story that
is being told because two and half hours is way too long for a comedy
that is set in one week as we see all these events happen in the main
characters life's. The film talks about the family having many problems
so them spending money on an expensive trip makes no sense to the
story. The ending of the film was not a good conclusion to the story
because so much stuff in the film did not get a full story but also
Debbie and Pete staying together made really no sense to how the two
had treated each other throughout the whole film.

Leslie Mann plays Debbie and Mann as an actress just cannot act in my
mind. In almost everything Mann has done she is trying to make me like
her but I just do not because she never really stretches herself. The
character she is given is horribly written as a shrill women who
complains so much that I do not know why anyone would like her. Mann
try's to be dramatic with a blank stare on her face and I could not
help but laugh at how unbelievably bad she was in every scene. Paul
Rudd plays Pete and he has been great in small smarts but even though
he is not as bad as Mann he is not much better then she is. His
character is also written badly but at least Rudd knows how to play
this man because he always plays the same character which is fine but I
wish he would try at least shake it up. These two are the only leads
and there are way too many supporting characters by some of my
favourite comedic actors who are wasted and when some are given funny
lines they got no laughs from me at all.

The film tried to be funny and heart warming but nothing that the film
did worked for me at all. The female characters in the film were very
one note and even Mann's character was written badly as if no women had
any input into the female characters. The film did not seem believable
to me because this couple just did not belong together which made me
hate this film even more then some of Apatow's produced efforts which
are so much better then his directed/written films.

MOVIE GRADE: F- (MVP: Paul Rudd)
<|_=00=_|>
When first seeing the trailers for this movie i was excited because i
remember this couple's story in Knocked Up and it was hilarious but i
think that's as far as it should've gone and i'll tell you why.

First the movie, for a comedy, is way too long. 2 hours and 15 min is a
bit ridiculous. because of this the jokes were dragged out and it
caused me to lose sense of the plot. There was so much potential with
this story line and i felt it could've been so great and hilarious but
they just didn't get there. I felt like there should've been a bit more
drama to their marriage, it felt as if they were trying to make it seem
so realistic that it came off fake. a lot of the problems they were
experiencing does happen to real life middle aged couples but not to
the extreme like they portrayed it. There were some familiar faces and
others were just random (megan fox) lol but i also think a little bit
more development for the new characters and maybe the old would've been
nice as well. I wanted to like this movie so much because it had so
many good parts where it could've been great. Maybe if they added a
small portion towards the end of the movie interviewing real life 40
something year old couples and had little exerpts that would have also
made the movie a bit closer to home.

All in all i do feel pocket hurt for spending 11.50 to see this movie
because i was simply disappointed. Would i recommend This is 40?
Probably not.
<|_=00=_|>
Pete (Paul Rudd) is a family man married with Debbie (Leslie Mann) and
they have two daughters, the teenager Sadie (Maude Apatow) and the girl
Charlotte (Iris Apatow). Paul and Debbie, who lies about her age, are
turning 40 and they are planning a party for Paul. He lost his job in
Sony and now he has a nostalgic record label with only one artist, the
British rock singer and songwriter Graham Parker that was successful in
the period from the 60's to the 80's. Debbie has a fashion store with
two employees, and she has just found an embezzlement of US$ 12,000.00.
She was poisoned by the inefficient Jodi (Charlyne Yi) and suspects of
the productive saleswoman Desi (Megan Fox). 

Debbie has issues with her estranged father Oliver (John Lithgow) while
Pete secretly supports his idle father Larry (Albert Brooks). Debbie
meets her father and invites him for the party. Pete comes to the edge
with the bankruptcy since he needs to sell their home and Debbie finds
that she is pregnant but she hides from Pete. In the party, Pete has a
nervous breakdown but Debbie is there to help him. 

"This is 40" is a dramatic comedy about relationship, modern marriage
and mid-life crisis. I believe that every viewer that is more than
forty years old and married with children will identify problems that
he or she might have lived. There are many hilarious scenes and
references to movies and shows but also moments of drama that are
immediately relieved by a joke. It is also funny because I have
recently watched all the 117 episodes (and not 114) of "Lost" in five
weeks, the same way Sadie did. Just as a curiosity, Leslie Mann is
married with the director and writer Judd Apatow and the two girls
(Maude and Iris) are their daughters. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Bem-vindo aos 40" ("Welcome to the 40")
