
First some background, I'm a guy, a shoot 'em, blow 'em up, Clint
Eastwood luvin dude. I do appreciate however a good romantic story.
Also, I have NOT read the book, heck, never even heard of it until now.

So that said, here is my take. The haters seem to fall into three major
categories.

First, there are the "loved the book, hate the movie" types. Since I
never read the book, I can't speak to this, other than to say, "Sorry,
it's not the book, it's a movie". I always tell my kids that the medium
of film is radically different than that of pulp and what "works" in
one doesn't necessarily work in the other. Given that, one should go
into a movie with an open mind, even if you've read the book.

Second, there are the "I never read the book, the movie didn't make
sense". Now that I can talk to. I never did find myself all that
confused. I think falls in large part to the fact that I never assumed
the movie was supposed to be based on reality. I mean come on, given
the rather obviously "fantastic" aspects of the story, it's not meant
to be taken seriously. You're given an overarching concept (basically
the power of love to do amazing things) and if you buy in, then the
particulars are not really all that important. If you can't get beyond
that, or simply don't buy into the central conceit, then you won't like
the movie because it rides that wave for all it's worth.

Third are the folks who thought the movie was too schmaltzy. Now that I
would at least partially agree with. That said, again, the movie
doesn't try to hide the fact that it wears it's heart on it's sleeve.
It's fair that if one does not go for that kind of thing, then you
won't like this film.

All that said, I thought it was a "good" romantic film. My personal
criticisms fall mainly on the somewhat wooden acting and the overall
lack of "feel". That's right, despite all I said above there was just
something about the film that just never really drew me into the
characters. For some reason I never really felt truly emotionally
invested in the characters. I didn't hate them, I did care, just not
nearly as much as I thought I should. I also thought some of the acting
was a bit forced and this might have contributed to not being able to
lose myself in the characters. Almost like the actors did a good job of
"acting" like the characters but never quite crossed into "being" the
characters.

So if you're willing to accept the movie for what it is, an unabashedly
romantic film that weaves religion as an integral part of the story,
then I think that you will enjoy the film. It's not perfect by any
sense of the imagination, but IMHO it's not nearly as bad as some folks
are making it out to be.
<|_=00=_|>
Directors making their feature-film debuts don't typically have their
pick of Hollywood's finest (and busiest) stars - unless they're Akiva
Goldsman, that is. For his fantastical romance epic Winter's Tale, the
Oscar-winning screenwriter has corralled the likes of Russell Crowe,
Jennifer Connelly, Colin Farrell and Eva Marie Saint: an accomplished
cast that would make many a more seasoned director envious. The trouble
is that Winter's Tale never really comes together as Goldsman clearly
wants it to: the writing is smart and occasionally very good, but the
film flounders when it should soar, losing rather than gathering pace
and tension as it goes on.

The story - based on Mark Helprin's ponderous 1983 novel - follows
petty thief Peter Lake (Farrell) from the early 1900s through to the
present day. In 1916, Peter is suddenly declared persona non grata by
Pearly Soames (Russell Crowe), his frankly insane, literally demonic
Irish thug of a mentor. While on the run, Peter encounters a mysterious
white horse that points him in the direction of the Penn mansion.
Initially looking to steal himself something nice, Peter sets aside all
thoughts of pilfering treasure from the Penns when he meets and swiftly
falls in love with Beverly (Downton Abbey's Jessica Brown Findlay), the
beautiful, flame-haired mistress of the house who is slowly being eaten
alive by consumption.

It's all very romantic, or so we're told, with a supernatural element
folded into the love story: Pearly becomes convinced that Peter is
destined to save a girl with titian hair, an action that would upset
the teetering balance between good and evil. Indeed, Peter's burning
love winds up keeping him alive for over a century, until he meets
single mom/super-journalist Virginia (Jennifer Connelly) and her
daughter in modern-day Manhattan. It soon becomes clear that fate,
destiny and a whole lot of mystical mumbo-jumbo are at work here, and
Peter will soon discover the healing and restorative powers of love
itself.

To be fair, Winter's Tale is built upon a raft of quite interesting
ideas. It hints at, rather than belabours, the notion of good and evil
taking physical form: Pearly lurks through Manhattan, a gangster by
trade and a demon by nature. When he decides to confront Peter for good
and for ever, he's forced to fight on equal, mortal terms. It's a
fantasy universe absolutely begging to be expanded, a fiction that
could be real and is all the more tantalising for it.

But Goldsman, in juggling the various elements of his story, lets the
opportunity slip him by, instead focusing on the love story in almost
excruciating detail - even though he never really creates a connection
between Peter and Beverly that rings true. Peter teaches Beverly how to
escape her all-consuming fever by slowing her heart down, Beverly
explains to Peter how she believes people rise to the stars to find
their loved ones when they die - it's all intensely romantic, but
hardly emotional. The film then flings a few more tropes and
complications into the mix (Peter loses his memory, Peter winds up
travelling through the future into our present, love will conquer all
etc.), without really stopping to explain just how it all hangs
together.

At least Goldsman has pulled together a cast worth watching, even when
the film he's constructed around them isn't quite worth their salt.
Farrell broods prettily in his boy-band haircut, clearly too old for
the part but nonetheless playing it with great gusto. Paying Goldsman
back for A Beautiful Mind and Cinderella Man, Crowe marches through the
silliness of his raging, bonkers character with strange amounts of joy.
Pearly is easily the film's best character, unless you count the one
played by another of Goldsman's Facebook friends (no spoilers, but this
movie star is no doubt grateful to Goldman for a script that earned him
bucketfuls of acting cred many years ago).

Swimming somewhere in the reams of quite lovely footage assembled by
Goldsman and his cinematographer Caleb Deschanel, there's a great movie
with great ideas. Once in a while, it bursts through - in the shadowy,
dank dungeon of a demon's lair, ruled by Lucifer himself; or the snow-
swept sparkle of a moonlit night - but, more often than not, it turns
into Winter's Tale: an emotionally distant romantic drama that goes for
lush, sweeping depth but comes up curiously cold and myopic.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a breath of fresh air. That being said, you have to go
into it expecting and understanding it is from the genre of "Magic
Realism". 

I actually read the entire book by Mark Helprin, unlike most of the
professional critics, so I knew what type of movie it was going to be
and I had appropriate expectations. The book was around 700 pages and
it wasn't a Harry Potter-type 700 pages. The novel is a very complex,
wordy, difficult to read and oftentimes very confusing piece of work,
jam packed with very descriptive imagery. I found myself reading parts
over and over to gain an understanding of it that I still wasn't
completely secure with when I was finished. In fact, most people I know
have ATTEMPTED READING it, and end up abandoning the book because of
the reasons I just mentioned. After I finished the book, I scoured the
internet trying to find any reviews of the book to help me understand
and see if I "really got it". To my frustration, you really can't find
any complete reviews of the book because I'm pretty sure most people
(like me) had a lot of confusion with the story as well!

In most of the reviews I read, people are ripping Akiva Goldsman apart
saying his adaptation is awful, but I strongly disagree. He had to
leave out some of the aspects of the book in the interest of time (For
example, a whole storyline of characters from the middle of the book
are missing from the film.) He kept the really important parts of the
novel and successfully makes them stand on their own.

Leaving the theater, I feel like Goldsman's interpretation ACTUALLY
CLARIFIED a lot of the book for me. Incidentally, I went to see the
film with someone who had NOT read the book and knew nothing about it,
and he thought it was way better that the reviews said as well. As a
matter of fact, I definitely liked Goldsman's ending better than
Helprin's! I finished the book with the feeling of "What? That's it???
Is my book missing pages?" The movie version is the way I wanted the
book to end.

Additionally, Helprin's wordy descriptions played out in my minds eye
of the beautiful (and the not-so-beautiful) aspects of the story were
brought clearly to life in the movie with the expertly executed
"tug-on-your-heartstrings" musical score and cinematography. 

So, if you're looking for a curse-them-out, shoot-em-up, or futuristic
outer space, or reality-based movie, Winter's Tale would be better
rented on DVD. If you're looking for a more philosophical, romantic,
thought-provoking fantasy as an escape from most of the usual movies in
theaters today, it's worth the ticket price.
<|_=00=_|>
As the reviews indicate either you'll love it or hate it. I loved it,
my wife hated it. Quite a turnaround considering I wanted to see
Robocop, but it was her turn to pick. Slow and confusing in the
beginning but picked up speed after the first encounter of Peter and
Beverly. The Characters were immediately likable and the two child
actresses were captivating. Russell Crowe was great as Demi-Demon
Pearly Soames. The visuals were terrific. It kind of made me think of
Titanic with Demons, Angels and even a Pegasus replacing the Boat. All
under the winter NYC backdrop. Pay attention to the dialogue because
there were several of those "oh wow - that's what that meant" moments
later on.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see winters tale this weekend and I had so many different
emotions when I watched it. First, Colin Farrell is wonderful...he's
really great in this roll as a thief but also as a man who falls in
love. He really makes you believe he's this character. Of course all
the other actors and the surprise cameo all really worked well
together. 

Not gonna lie I cried a few different times in the movie, I laughed,
and felt so many other things while watching. I'm also a secret
hopeless romantic so this movie is great for my fellow love story
lovers. Honestly I knew from the previews it was going to have a
spiritual and magical story line which I really liked. It's nice to
watch films that make you think afterwards and during. So don't go
expecting to see a typical story line, because that's not at all what
you will get. 

When you go see this movie which I definitely recommend, have an open
mind and just appreciate what you're watching, honestly it's moving!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolutely one of the strangest I've ever seen . At some
point , I was even thinking I'd leave . However , at the end , I
figured out this is one of the movies with a strong message I'd ever
seen . Instead of giving it a one-star like I did with Endless Love "
:D " , I gave it an 8 .

Akiva Goldsman is the one to blame in this mess . I couldn't believe
how the movie was shattered , out of tone , confusing at many times ,
uncontrolled ( not in a good way ) and utterly stupid , not in the
least sense near a fairy tale even . A fairy tale is more interesting
and even more beautiful than that . The direction was a disaster .
Jessica Brown Findlay shines , though . What saved it was what the
movie / novel wanted to say about the value of our own selves and the
value of love . We have a tendency to believe that miracles are shiny
things with a lot of fantasy but actually miracles are not that . This
movie will make you look at your own self as a miracle and if you're in
love , it will show you how blessed you can be with your love in your
life , and how saving one's soul , only by true love and loyalty , is
the greatest thing you can accomplish on this earth . Simple and
powerful as that .

If you're someone who wants to watch themes of love discussed in good
and powerful movies , this is one of the best . It doesn't differ much
if you were a believer in true everlasting love or not , or even
wondering about it . Try to sit through the stupid parts to enjoy the
good ones , most importantly , without prejudice :)
<|_=00=_|>
If you have not read the book, use this review as a reason to either
bypass the film initially and read the book first, or to understand
that the screenplay is a huge departure from the intended story.

The novel Winter's Tale is a romance with a supernatural overtone
bathed in a tribute to New York City if it could always remain in a
mystical state. The book is sometimes verbose, often funny, and
heartfelt in it's depiction of love. The movie insults your intellect
by ignoring the vast symbolism used in the book. Example: Time Travel -
The book allows for you to understand certain characters have time
traveled, while the movie insists certain characters travel only to
follow others telling you that they are supernatural beings. It's NOT
so. Here is exactly where the director really fowled the film.
Deviating from the author's intent, turning the story into a devil's
agents interplay is awkward out of place. The devil was NEVER once
mentioned or implied in the original story. Yes, some devices are
necessary in film to help the audience, but Pearly Soames purpose as a
protagonist in the film is reduced to silly. Furthermore Pearly's
reason for chasing Peter had nothing to do with Peter's love for
Beverly. Pearly never met Beverly in the novel. Here is one more
non-spoiler as it too won't be found in the film. In the book, Pearly's
purpose for chasing Peter Lake began the moment he forced Peter Lake
into his employ and Peter later turned a huge heist against Pearly.
Pearly's gang was decimated for a time. From that day forward, Pearly's
will to kill Peter grew in every chase that left him empty handed.

Being sold as a straight up romance or love story is almost a mistake
because the film does try to encompass the much larger story
surrounding the love affair. From Peter Lake's horse which has a story
of his own to a wildly funny malapropian newspaper editor named Craig
Binky. Other Characters such as Virginia Gamely were altered
ridiculously. Virginia was from the Lake of the Coherees in the novel.
In the film, she is just another New Yorker. This is where the film
falls apart. The director's vain effort to include the other threaded
stories inside the book are convoluted.

When you use the same title as a book for a movie it's wise to make an
honest adaptation, otherwise change the name of the movie from the book
entirely to avoid comparisons entirely. Then follow the guide of
placing in the credits, "based on the story Winter's Tale by Mark
Helprin." Director Akiva Goldsman (also wrote the screenplay)
zig-zagged across both these traditional paths and the story suffered
in his mash-up. Change a characters hair color, but don't change their
role or destiny. 

In this case Winter's Tale isn't even a director's interpretation. The
book weaves a subtle supernatural element that may be so vague that the
director wanted to spell it out to moviegoers. In doing so, he dumbs
down the original story to the point it insults the audience, holding
their hand and telling them what to think as opposed to letting the
moviegoer figure things out.

Winter's Tale is condensed, filtered and sanitized of it's soul. Even
without having read the novel, evidence of awkward changes for the
screenplay dumb down the original subtle supernatural theme which was
ironically as clear in it's message as it was abstract in it's
delivery.

As a romance film there are heartfelt moments and the chemistry between
Peter Lake and Beverly Penn does have enough strength to bring a tear
to some audience members. Collin Farrell's soft humanity is felt quite
often too. Yet, except for a candid conversation among the two men
Peter Lake and Isaac Penn which draws an intellectual laugh, there is
no humor to break up the tension in the film. Yes, the contrast of the
book is once again worth noting. The book had meaningful characters
which were lost in the movie. They were not a direct part of the love
story, and as such were eliminated. Eliminating so many great elements
of the original story killed the journey Peter Lake would take you
through. The cinematography alone in Winter's Tale was not enough to
paint the fantastic picture of the magical New York City the author
intended as a character in the story. Without that fabric the mystical
world Peter Lake and Beverly Penn exist is absent. 

Winter's Tale is a complex supernatural love story with too many
important characters to have fit into a short two or three hour film.
It's not written in a manner that would translate into a part one and
part two series either. Perhaps it's best medium will one day be a
mini- series a network can allow to play out over five to eight
episodes. It's often said that the journey is the reward and the story
of Winter's Tale is a long journey that cannot be condensed. In this
case, spotlighting one part of the journey is not fulfilling either. 

Let's just make one thing clear to anyone that has neither read the
book nor seen the movie. The love story in this film takes place in the
first quarter of the novel. There are three remaining quarters to the
story that thread the love story of Peter Lake and Beverly Penn into
the overall journey, but their story is told early and ends early.
Well, that's not entirely true. And yet it is. Now for all those clues
and a tease, don't you just wonder what a book that has three quarters
more to say  has to say? For my full review just search my name, Lars
Hindsley and you'll find DangerMans Lair.
<|_=00=_|>
I really was not expecting to hate this movie as much as I did. I
really had no interest in seeing this at first, I had no idea what it
was about and it may have just faded away. However I soon started
hearing that this is one of those insane movies, the movie you had to
see just to understand how insane it actually is. Something like
"Branded" or "The Oogieloves" and yet the movie turned out to be so
boring that I can't even tell you what it is about.

Some stuff happens in the past, they go to the future, some little girl
is dying, Will Smith is a demon (WTF) and a bunch of incoherent stuff
happens that we get a happy ending. I guess. 

This movie was just a bore, I didn't care about any character, the
action wasn't enthralling, the dialog was slow, pretentious, and dull,
and despite having Will Smith playing a demon, nothing funny was
happening. The film is a bunch of random stuff happening, trying to
convey the message that everything happens for a reason, again, I
guess. I kind of hated this movie, it does look pretty nice, and the
acting isn't really that bad, but nothing about this movie made me glad
I saw it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie with my friend who is a girl, and at first the movie
started out like an unbearably predictable love story full of pop but
no substance, but after the appearance of the first "miracle" (possible
spoiler, unintended) this movie picked up pace and became more
mystical! Some have claimed "this movie make sense." I can see that,
but will add love doesn't make sense either, it makes other things make
sense; on a deeper note, religion itself doesn't always make logical
sense, which is why the concept of faith exists, it also makes sense of
other things! Some say "It's weird for the devil to be portrayed as a
jaded yet-well- kept hobo," I thought that was odd too, but then I
remembered Jesus conquered hell and had the keys to death's gate, so it
makes sense the former king of the earth is out of a job and has lived
in darkness and isolation for millennia, surrounded by constant
salvation, I can see why the devil'd be jaded. In closing, if you watch
this with maturity and reverence for depth and abstract concepts then
this movie will hit a heart string and be a good choice. If you go into
it expecting the typical love fluff, then you'll be sorely
disappointed! I don't usually say this, but GO SEE THIS
MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
