
I really don't know why people are writing comments slating this film.

It is not a 'hardcore; horror that is likely to make you seek therapy
for the rest of your life, but it is not dull or unwatchable either.

The production is good, the acting is good, and it is the kind of film
you can watch when you just fancy a 'movie night' with friends or
family.

The story is engaging enough to make it interesting.

All these pseudo-intellectual ramblings criticising the film are just
that - pseudo-intellectual.

It is probably not the best film you will watch in your life but is it
also very far from the worst.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, a bad horror movie can have some redeeming quality to make
it at least watchable for its runtime even if you'll forget about it
the next day. Then, about once a year, the stars align, Wes Craven
rolls in his grave, and a movie like The Darkness limps into theaters,
a horror flick that's so inept at everything it tries to accomplish
that it only triggers catcalls from the audience. In The Darkness, the
whitest family I've ever seen goes on a family trip to the Grand
Canyon, and by some ridiculous series of events, the son brings back
five rocks that have Native American demons inside them. The family is
now haunted by some incredibly convoluted curse, and demon stuff
happens. I can't even say anything specific because nothing really
scary happens to this family. Every single scare is just a door
opening, the faucet turning on, a dog nonchalantly walking down a
hallway, or handprints appearing on the wall. There aren't any scares
because every time something that resembles a shock comes along that
thing isn't scary! It's a faucet! The only thing that came out of the
faucet was a little bit of water, they didn't even try to put blood or
black crap coming out of it or anything! And then in an effort to save
this god forsaken atrocity, they try to put some stupid family drama in
the plot that's referenced once and never mentioned again. The daughter
has bullimia? Who cares, put black handprints on her! Mom has a
drinking problem? Might as well have the faucet turn back on! Not to
mention there are several characters that enter the plot for two scenes
and then mysteriously disappear. I've never seen a horror movie so
incompetent at every single basic aspect of filmmaking. I can't
pinpoint one exact reason why I hate this movie so much other than the
sole reason that it exists. I could name about fifty other movies that
I've given bad reviews that I would rather watch than this train wreck.
I think I can now give every other horror movie the benefit that it's
not as bad as The Darkness.
<|_=00=_|>
So another example of how IMDb user reviews and ratings have slated
another reasonably good film. Clearly everyone has different
expectations when it comes to horrors, and for me personally, movies
like Insidious, Paranormal Activity, Sinister and Dark Skies etc tick
the box. And this was one I would gladly add to that list.
Unfortunately with most new movies, the story lines and scares are
nothing original and this one is no different. If that is enough to put
you off then I suggest you don't watch this. I on the other hand, take
a movie for what it is and I was not in any way disappointed. The cast,
acting, script and effects were all decent enough and it was all a bit
predictable but who cares.... I enjoyed it. Unlike 90% of the reviewers
here who seem to be wannabe critics and outright movie boffins, I on
the other hand am just a NORMAL person. This film is worth watching if
you are not going to dissect every scene from the start to the finish
merely to find faults. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is simply a lame and lazy movie. It has the smallest seeds of
potential I think in the aspect of the child with autism. There could
be something with a horror movie that uses a child who has this
disorder and has some sort of psychic or supernatural connections to
things, it could make for a good premise for a movie. This isn't it,
however. The Darkness is generic all the way down to its title - can
you imagine the faces lit up when the actors (who did get paid anyway
so whatever) are told they'll be in a new horror movie produced by
Jason Blum (whatever you think of Blumhouse they made Whiplash so
points there for that), and then comes a script called 'The Darkness'
and those faces fall a little - and its laziness comes largely in
execution.

These aren't all necessarily bad actors really; Kevin Bacon, Radha
Mitchell, even Paul Reiser I've seen do excellent work in major films
for major artists. Here, it's slumming in a story that feels like its
grafted plot points and character beats from a Lifetime movie; the
mother/wife who's an alcoholic; the philandering husband/father who
can't keep it in his pants (until he decides to not to that so much due
to the crazy s*** at home); the daughter who has bulimia since, you
know, she has to be given something to do. And of course the son who is
autistic (though we don't see that at the start of the movie, set at
the Grand Canyon where he happens to plop into a hole and find some
spooky rocks, woo rocks, scary), and the filmmakers use the autism more
to keep things in the first half suspicious.

So in other words, it's not taking autism really seriously aside from
it being a crutch to hold on to: there's some weird things going on in
the house like (gasp) hand-prints and prints on a mirror during a
shower, well you can blame it on the autistic kid Mikey, right? The kid
is directed to be pretty one dimensional, and there's a few moments
that are just laughably poor. And it all leads up to a conclusion that
we've seen a thousand times with these possessed-house movies - and for
some reason even though I believe the Anasazi are Native American in
heritage the "healers" are Mexican because maybe they couldn't afford
to hire Native American actors (and having actors speaking Spanish
makes things more, uh, 'authentic' or scary).

This is weak by way of building up family drama (also it feels confused
as if on the one hand the family had these problems before this phantom
menace so to speak arrived, but on the other hand it's also meant to be
like the ghosts make them more effed up, which is it) and by the
numbers (plus logic stuff, simple things, like is the movie so cheap
that they couldn't show the boy at a school - the actor playing him
doesn't look too young to be in school as autistic kids *do* attend),
and yet its laziness causes it to be borderline offensive. Could you at
least TRY to build real suspense? Even jump scares, the more tired of
the crutches of horror filmmakers today, at least give us something to
do in a theater if only by motor-reaction or something. The jump scares
here are non-existent to bare-bones (ooh, the son's behind her,
whoops), and by the climax it's ultimately bloodless too with a PG-13
rating so, uh, kids can sit bored too? This is a movie made at the
prestigious school for hacks, The University of Don't-Give-a-F***ery,
and if you don't care then I don't, either. Kevin Bacon can do better.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not understand why Hollywood still makes films like "The
Darkness"...

It is always the same thing. There is nothing new, no creativity. They
change one or two elements on the script but in the end it is the same
type of reheated and recycled haunting story.

If they had, at least, included some gratuitous nudity or sex to make
things a little more interesting or less soporific the film could be
watchable. 

As it is, The Darkness is boring as it can possibly be, without any
scares, and in the final act, the introduction of the healers and their
magic feather is painfully ridiculous.

I wonder what forced Kevin Bacon to star in such drivel....
<|_=00=_|>
I actually enjoyed this supernatural thriller.i found it very
suspenseful and eerie at times.the music was great.and the acting was
good all around.Kevin Bacon Plays Peter Taylor.Radha Mitchell plays his
wife Bronny.Lucy Fry plays their daughter Stephanie,and David Mazouz
plays their son Michael.Mazous is a stand out here.the plot is
basically this.Peter Taylor(Bacon) and his family return from a camping
trip at the grand canyon.almost from the moment they arrive
home,strange things begin to happen.little things at first,which slowly
escalate to more serious events.the low rating here(4.2/10)is
unjustified,in my opinion.while I wouldn't call it a masterpiece,i
think it was still effective.for me,The Darkness is 7.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Darkness is, in my opinion, a pretty obvious Poltergeist knock off,
with an American Indian mythology twist. 

This film follows much the same formula made famous by Poltergeist. It
makes a few distinctions, by drawing on American Indian mythology but
beyond that, its business as usual. 

That said, this film is in no way as creepy or frightening, as
Poltergeist. The demons, look more like a bunch of bad extras from a
cultural festival. Their evil is not really all that evil either. They
feel more like bad tenants or squatters, who have personal hygiene
issues. Hand washing in particular, is not their thing. 

That said, in fairness this is not a bad film. Its moderately
entertaining and it has a good cast, including Kevin Bacon, who I have
a lot of time for. His performance helps lifts this film and is
complimented by a capable cast who generally share good chemistry.The
family dynamic, in particular, is very believable in a middle aged,
kind of yuppie-ish way.

I give The Darkness a six out of ten. Its not exceptional but it is
still quite watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I love scary movies. I love most things that come out of Blumhouse
Productions since it's been around. Things like The Conjuring,
Annabelle, Sinister, Insidious, all wonderful forays into the genre of
spook. But The Darkness, which I thought had a lot of promise, is
absolutely miserable, paling in comparison to the other films from the
studio. It seems a desperate, highly formulaic premise that's a money
grab at best. There is nothing original; The script is incredibly lazy,
relying on jump scares and the musical score stabs. There are no
likable characters with any redemptive qualities. It's another well off
family in a big beautiful house that you'll never afford in a very
basic plot that has zero substance. It's been done over and over, but
better by Poltergeist, Paranormal Activity, Amityville, The Shining...
the list goes on and on. This film tries very hard to simulate the
recipe of the latter films in order to make money rather than
entertain.

Great talents are wasted here, Kevin Bacon, most notably. The genre has
had far better entries in the last couple of years, so there is simply
no excuse for this.
<|_=00=_|>
So this kid with Autism is more accessible to the preternatural and
disturbs evil native American spirits that decide to disturb him and
his family back.

It Reminds me of Stir of Echoes, which also star Keven Bacon, but is
nowhere near as good as that movie. in comparison, Stir of Echoes looks
like The Exorcist when standing right next to The Darkness. 

The story had potential. Some evil native American spirits get their
resting place disturbed, by some white folks (shocker), so in return,
these spirits decide to unlock these guys inner most demons (mom's an
alcoholic, the daughter is bulimic) to split up the family and drive
them all crazy. 

It was a brilliant idea, but it was done so corny. Even seasoned actor
Keven Bacon looked cheesy delivering simple lines and trying to be
serious as he reacted to the ghost. 

It was a very sad display of what could have been gold. I don't know
what went wrong, but I know this: Don't wast your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Literally if The Darkness had been announced as an Insidious remake I
would have believed it. There are so many things that are identical
between the two films. The good news for them is that Insidious is
freaking amazing so watching a similar story done nearly as well is
worthy and was entertaining. It wasn't nearly as creepy and it did feel
very cliché but it was still solidly entertaining. The cast was very
good and the story was well written. Essentially if you liked Insidious
or even the plethora of similar "Amityville Family gets haunted" style
PG-13 horror like Sinister, The Conjuring, Possession and so on then
you will really enjoy The Darkness. Literally the only thing stopping
this from at least being a huge 9 is the fact that it is cliché and
recycled in a lot of ways. Even the name itself "The Darkness" seems
almost too stereotypical. It also lacks a truly great scary scene.
There were certain moments in any good horror film that just get under
your skin and The Darkness is lacking that "moment."

The cast is very solid as I mentioned. Kevin Bacon fills the father
role very nicely. Perhaps the script doesn't give him as much to work
with as he could have but certainly his chemistry on screen and star
power is enough to drive the film. Not to mention the fact how damn
good this guy looks at FIFTY-EIGHT years old. he is actually believable
as a middle-aged-ish guy with younger kids. He's also believable with
Radha Mitchell who plays his wife and 15 years his junior. I've always
liked Mitchell, especially in Silent Hill. I think she has a certain
look that fits the tough scream queen image. She is a little underused
in this film but she still plays the Mom role nicely. Much like Bacon
though she is underdeveloped as a character. David Mazouz who was
excellent on Fox's Touch plays a similar character here as an autistic
boy haunted by ghosts. He obviously plays it well and it's a subtle
role but very good for the type of character he is. Lucy Fry is also
very good as the daughter of the family. 

Director Greg Mclean was behind the brilliant horror film and it's even
more brilliant sequel, Wolf Creek so I know he has the eye for horror.
He certainly sets a tone here and the film is very dark and creepy and
commanding. I think it just lacks polish in some areas and it struggles
to differentiate itself as we mentioned. It feels like the script was
left over bits from stronger stories. Nonetheless, I'm not bashing the
film. I liked it a lot. It definitely has it's moments and well worth
the time. It just won't be as memorable as the other aforementioned
titles. 8/10
