
I don't usually write a review, but I feel compelled to defend this
film against critics who, I feel, have unfairly given it a low rating.
While its premise is not necessarily unique and it has its fair share
of clichés, The Judge is a deeply moving film that showcases the acting
powerhouse that is Robert Duvall and the undeniable versatility and
magnetic screen presence of Robert Downey Jr. There are also strong
supporting performances from Vera Farmiga (she and RJD have great
chemistry), Billy Bob Thornton, Vincent D'Onofrio, and Jeremy Strong. I
dare anyone who has dealt with family issues not to be affected. Forget
the critics - they don't know everything - and do yourself a favour and
watch The Judge. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film twice at TIFF and was quite impressed! It's getting
some harsh reviews, undeservedly. Yes, it's too long and yes, director
David Dobkin needs to work on his tone and pacing, but the story is
great and the performances are fantastic! 

Not a simple courtroom drama at all, the story is more about Hank
Palmer (Downey)'s struggle to understand his relationship with his
father and to accept where he came from. It's about identity, family,
and all the messiness and contradictions of life. 

If you are a teenager who can't sit still through a more-than-two-hours
long movie, or expect some type of John Grisham or Iron Man-like action
from this film, you will be disappointed. If you are a true film lover
who revels in watching great actors practice their craft, you will not
be disappointed by The Judge. 

This movie is definitely worth sitting through for amazing performances
by both Downey and Duvall, who could both be up for Oscar nominations
for their roles as the son and father, respectively. There are many
very funny moments as well as many touching moments between father and
son, brother and brother. The audience I sat with at Roy Thomson Hall
loved it, frequently expressing their appreciation with laughter. See
for yourself on October 10--don't let a few critics spoil it for you.
<|_=00=_|>
What happens when you go back to that small town that was home? Hank
Palmer (Robert Downey Jr.) reluctantly goes back home to honor his
mother at her death and faces the battles that he strategically
retreated from when he went to college. This film takes an unmitigated
look at Midwestern family life from the point of view of the returning
son. Prodigal or survivor? 

The disputes and other scenes of life are realistically represented
with Hank facing his father, Joseph, and the rest of the town the way
every battle-hardened small-town returnee would love to do. The strong
disputes and unflinching negotiations that Hank and Joseph go through
lead to an imperfect peace. 

Robert Duvall does a superb job of portraying Hank's father. Where
others would let Hank soften under his father's pressure and training,
Robert Downey Jr. keeps Hank strong and sharp. In his best role yet,
Robert Downey Jr. shows us that he has matured into one of the solid
actors working today. You will see them both at the Oscars. 

The Judge is one of those rare films that tell a strong story without
selling out to the usual Hollywood exaggerations. I saw this movie at
TIFF through the eyes of a small-town daughter who made her break to
the city to get out from under the strong influence of her father. This
film evoked the strong emotions that I keep buried. 

Thank you Robert Duvall, Robert Downey Jr., and every individual
involved for giving a voice to people like me! Thank you Robert Downey
Jr. for keeping Hank strong with a good heart. 

The Judge will prove to be a classic. See it! You will be glad you did.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly I have to say that the trailer I saw for The Judge advertised
it as a courtroom/family drama with some comedy thrown in. Who doesn't
love the family feud type films, where the black sheep of the family
returns home for a funeral/wedding/divorce etc? And I was looking
forward to seeing Robert Downey Jr in a different role from Tony
Stark/Iron Man. What I didn't expect was a bit of a tearjerker.

The story itself is fairly clichéd. A lawyer (Robert Downey Jr) in the
middle of a messy separation returns home for his mother's funeral. His
estranged father (Robert Duvall) doesn't want anything to do with him.
He rekindles romance with an old flame (Vera Farmiga). It's the
performances though that make it engaging and stop it from potentially
being just another straight to DVD release.

The film is beautifully directed by David Dobkin. Downey Jr and Duvall
are both excellent. Their scenes are strong and emotional. I also loved
Vincent D'Onofrio and Jeremy Strong (as Downey Jr's older and younger
brothers respectively). They are terrific. Farmiga, Dax Shepard and
Billy Bob Thornton are all great, but I felt they were somewhat
underused.

Even though I think that there was a bit too much going on and at times
it got a bit too sentimental, I still very much enjoyed The Judge for
the most part. It is a touching and absorbing film, that will make you
laugh and cry, and if you are a fan of either Downey Jr or Duvall
you'll love it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see this before the October release and although I read
some of the reviews that were released recently I started to have some
reservations however, I have disagreed with some critics in the past
and figured I'd make up my own mind about this film. Gratefully I did
not have to worry because it was time well spent. The performances were
excellent and it was witty as well and engaging. When looking at the
posters (without giving much away) I got the impression that this film
looks like something out of a John Grisham novel or an episode of Law
and Order, and while there is the trial going on, the movie is more of
a focus of this man's (Downey) relationship with his father (Duvall),
his family, his unresolved issues with his present life and the life he
left behind. Downey and Duvall don't disappoint as well as the ensemble
cast. If you're looking for a movie with heart, engaging performances
and not a "courtroom drama", this is definitely the right film.
<|_=00=_|>
This year's premier film for me at the Toronto International Film
Festival was The Judge. It was really the only film I happened to be
able to get tickets to an afternoon matinée for. I assumed with the
cast that it had that it would be at least decent. Well, it wasn't just
decent. It was very nearly superb. It wasn't perfect and once I stopped
and started to dissect it a little I saw some flaws in it but initially
I was prepared to give this film a solid 9 and I'm still thinking about
it. This was a truly great drama-comedy for adults that I think almost
everyone will enjoy. The professional critics seem to be giving it a
resounding "meh." That doesn't surprise me. They don't care for
anything that doesn't fit their narrow minded view of what "art" is.
Sorry reviewers...but its true. The Judge was as good, in fact in many
ways better, than last years critical darling "August: Osage County."
However, they are right when most of them say this is a vehicle for
Robert Downey Jr. to do what he does best. The man has incredible
chemistry on screen and fans of his will absolutely love this because
he's being Tony Stark only a lawyer and this has a little more depth
and heart than your average Marvel flick.

Robert Downey Jr. is a brilliant, smart talking, sarcastic big city
lawyer. The predictability and cookie-cutter character that he portrays
is one of the reasons why I hold back giving this a 9. We have seen
this type of character before but Downey Jr. is still great at it and
he's likable and passionate and he enjoys what he does on screen and
you enjoy watching him. He delivers sarcasm and dark humour on point
and leads the cast flawlessly. Robert Duvall is breath taking. I have
always loved him as an actor but this should be an Oscar nomination for
him. It won't because its too mainstream for the critics but Duvall is
captivating as the bull-headed, moralistic, small town judge who has
been estranged from his son (Downey Jr.) for many years. Together they
are beyond dynamite. Their relationship drives this film right into
your heart and is mesmerizing. In the way that Streep and Roberts won
you over in August: Osage County, Downey and Duvall will bowl you over.
Most of the supporting cast are excellent and some are okay at best.
Vincent D'Onofrio, Jeremy Strong, Dax Shepherd, and Billy Bob Thorton
are all really great. D'Onofrio shows signs of being amazing but due to
such a big cast and so much focus being on Downey and Duvall, he sort
of gets buried but he is still vital to the film. Some say that Strong
as the mildly autistic son is unnecessary but I thought he added a
certain dab of heart and sweetness to the film though they do use him
for a lot of laughs. Thorton is intense as the prosecutor and Shepherd
is very good as the small town lawyer at Downey's side. Unnecessary and
almost forced characters were Vera Farmiga and Leighton Meester as
mother and daughter. I know every film needs a romance story but it
felt like it got in the way and should have been cut from the final
film.

The Judge is long. Does a drama-comedy that is mostly a mainstream
Robert Downey Jr. vehicle need to be 2 1/2 hours...no definitely not.
Did I mind? Nope not in the least. I was just starting to think they
might be drawing it out just a tad when it ended and it ended well. It
told a story, it took its time establishing characters and background
of this family, it touched on a hint of a mystery and disease and death
and love and despair and redemption and I laughed a lot and I cried a
lot and I just really enjoyed it. I felt good after I saw this and I
can't wait to watch it again. That to me is the mark of a great film.
It entertained me, it was smart and well written with a great cast and
great performances. I felt like director David Dobkin who is synonymous
with comedy really put his heart and soul into the project and cared a
lot about it. He still put a lot of heartfelt laughs in it and it has
its drawbacks but it was still really well done. I am willing to
overlook the things that they didn't do or did that doesn't make this a
critical masterpiece because it entertained me. This is a film every
adult can watch and appreciate. And if nothing else Robert Duvall
deserves an Oscar period. 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you are an adult wanting to see a great film about real life family
issues with some terrific court room drama you should see this film. It
is well written and directed with great performances by Downey and
Duvall. I think Downey gives his best performance in a film and Duvall
is again outstanding. 

I found this to be a better film than Gone Girl. It is more believable
and more moving.

I am a baby boomer who likes science fiction but I am quite pleased to
see a film without a super hero and CG images. 

I hope to convince my daughters (all in their 20's) and my parents (in
their 80's) to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Another excellent performance by Robert Downey Jr.! By far one of the
better movies this year. I have never wrote a movie review but felt
compelled as I feel the film critics have not been so fair. Although
the premise of the movie is to unique in it's entirety - anyone having
family drama could relate and appreciate this story. The Judge is a
deeply moving film that showcases the acting powerhouse that is Robert
Duvall and the undeniable versatility and magnetic screen presence of
Robert Downey Jr. Don't listen to the critics, they clearly don't know
everything! Go see this movie and be prepared for a few good laughs,
bring a box of tissue for the tear jerking moments! Well worth it
<|_=00=_|>
Big city lawyer Hank Palmer returns to his childhood home where his
father, the town's judge, is suspected of murder. Hank sets out to
discover the truth and, along the way, reconnects with his estranged
family. 

The Judge is directed by David Dobkin and stars Robert Downey Jr. and
Robert Duvall. It's cool to see Robert Downey Jr. in a role that
doesn't involves him putting an iron suit on. This man has talent, he
actually is an excellent actor, I recommend to check out some of his
movies from the 90's to early 2000. Of course Robert Duvall was in To
Kill a Mockingbird, he's a fantastic and iconic actor since for ever.
This movie is exciting. Firstly I'm impressed; not only this film is
funny but it's also very interesting, an almost two and a half hours
movie and you are never bored. That's what I called Cinema. Though,
there is nothing original about the story but it does focus a lot on hi
characters. Plus, Robert Downey Jr. is excellent in this film; he
steels every scene he's in and that's pretty the whole movie. As I said
before, it's good to see him again playing an adult male character
other than Iron Man, he's great as Iron Man but this actor can do
serious adult drama movies and killed it as well. It reminds me of
Zodiac. It's also great to have Robert Duvall back because for the past
few years he was just a cool supporting actor showing up for few scenes
and that's pretty much it; but here he's GOOD! Vincent D'Onofrio is
terrific in the movie as well as Billy Bob Thornton who is the "bad"
guy but he's just doing his job, he's underused. However, on the one
hand there are some intense and powerful scenes between the two
protagonists but in the other hand some are a bit cheesy and
unrealistic. Everything involving the girl and her daughter in the
movie could have been erased. It's evolving around this father and son
emotion, you don't really need her. Vera Farmiga is a good actress but
it won't miss something if they skip it, I would even say that this is
a little irrelevant to the overall plot. Finally, I feel like there
weren't enough of the court room scenes, that are my favorite ones;
they keep showing those a bit boring and useless family drama dynamic
argument when the main plot take place around this super interesting
case. 

Overall The Judge is an effective and well directed movie with
performances that all are very good, the story is very interesting,
showing family bonding and doing something good for the world as when
you walk out of this movie, the only thing you want to do is call your
father.
<|_=00=_|>
There is not a single performance that can be faulted in The Judge. 

The cast is strong, talented and everyone gives their best. Everything
else from photography, sets, locations, costumes and direction is top
notch.

The thing that is horribly wrong with this movie - and with so many
movies that have come out of Hollywood in the last two decades - is the
writing. It's uninspired confused, dull and clichéd.

The device of 'wayward family member returning to family home to face
dysfunctional family demons at wedding, funeral, whatever' was stale
when Shakespeare was a lad, but it keeps getting dusted off, tarted up
with a stellar cast and a hip soundtrack and dragged out to waft past
yet another cinema audience. (August Osage County, anyone?) This film
also manages to blend in some sub-standard court drama, a confusing
side-line into incest (WTF?) and the inevitable resolution with hugs,
meaningful looks and a dead body. 

My only suggestion for this movie is turn it into a movie-buff drinking
game. Cliché Bingo. You'll be squiffy before you lay eyes on the old
hometown girlfriend who is still mysteriously single despite being
gorgeous.
