
I thoroughly enjoyed Chappie. I usually don't write reviews, but after
seeing the brutal rating this movie is getting I felt compelled to
write this review.

Chappie is a funny, entertaining, and surprisingly sentimental movie
about a sentient robot being raised by gangsters in Johannesburg. Most
of the criticisms I've seen about one- dimensional characters and
illogical character choices are valid, but Chappie's character, the
CGI, the humor, and the overall aesthetic of the movie more than make
up for these shortcomings.

Please go see this movie and make up your own mind. I almost didn't go
last night because of the negative reviews, but I'm so happy I did. I'm
very excited to see this movie again. You leave this movie feeling like
you've become friends with Chappie, and I hope the bad reviews don't
prevent the sequels from being made.

If you like Neill Blomkamp's directing and style you will love this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let the critics who can't seem to get past comparing Chappie with
other sci-fi titles put you off of going to see this film. 

This story is about a lot more than just robot police officers it is a
thought provoking social commentary on many modern day issues and what
it is like to bring life into the modern world.

I very much enjoyed District 9 but I would even go as far to say I
enjoyed Chappie much, much more.

There were so many aspects to this film that could have went wrong but
have been nailed on the head by the director. The effect once again
visually striking and a very well paced and intricate development of
characters as well as interesting set design helps keep chappie fresh
and not just another reboot of any other sci fi film as critics will
have you believe.

I would also say I enjoyed this film much, much more than the likes of
robo-cop.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not just an excellent and entertaining movie, i found many
elements as real/istic and present, it is just touched some (maybe)
future elements. Neil pulled the maximum out of this story and made it
unforgettable as District 9 was.

How ever, my stomach turns upside down when i see the Metacritic or
Rotten Tomatoes score, these pathetic sites and their brainless people
(called themselves "critics") live amongst us with their nonsense and
empty headed, braintumored criticism - sure, this movie has no Beverly
Hills and it's "amazing" crowd, no lemonade punch as story, no muscle
cars and no muscle people, no worldwide threat to the USA and such. It
has something else to say and this is the core of this amazing movie.

Afterall, Chappie has Everything that needs for a unique and must-see
movie, sure, it is a target for all those (disgusting) critics who
expect the everyday boring lemonade with everyday boring actors and
actress.

Shame on Metacritic and Rotten Tomatoes, you guys are not more, than
just rotten and brainless second level scribblers.
<|_=00=_|>
Why all the hate for this movie? I understand not liking something, but
everyone seems to just TRASH it. Did I see the same movie? I saw an
emotional film about innocence and loss. I REALLY don't understand.
Sure, maybe the film didn't have the best dialogue or the best acting
in the world, but it hit home for me. The VFX were phenomenal, Chappie
is the best CGI motion capture I have seen in a long time, the 100%
electronic musical score by Hans Zimmer was really unique and fresh,
and it has a really great ending. I DON'T UNDERSTAND. If you like
Blomkamp's previous films or are remotely interested, please watch it
yourself. I think the critics are wrong on this one. I have been
thinking for a while about why the reviews are so out there. First off,
the trailers are AWFUL. The first to come out was this philosophical
"What does it mean to be human?" kinda movie. The TV trailers were
"GUNS, EXPLOSIONS, ROBOTS!!!" and it is neither. Think "Little Miss
Sunshine" with a robot, that is a more accurate representation.
Blomkamp's most underrated film.
<|_=00=_|>
Felt like leaving the theater for this one. It started off nicely, with
a hugely successful robot task force with moderate A.I. Then for some
reason funding gets cut and the head developer decides to go rogue and
install his untested super A.I. on a stolen robot.

Hard to swallow plot #1: The robots can only be reprogrammed in the
presence of a unique key USB disk. The developer just picks it up and
takes it home, spends several days with it, and no one bats an eye.

#2: Chappie is born with the knowledge of a baby. But miraculously he
learns the English language in a couple of days of exchanging a few
sentences with his "parents".

#3: The bad guys let the developer, which they just stole and beat the
crap of, come and go as he pleases. No worries of him alerting the
authorities or his companies' own robot army. Which he doesn't,
inexplicably.

#4: For someone so intelligent, Chappie is pretty dumb. He knows
shooting someone kills them but is convinced that knifing "just makes
them sleep".

#5: After lying to manipulate the robot every step of the way, the "bad
daddy" decides to come clean and admit that in fact he can't prevent
Chappie's demise. Which obviously results in almost getting killed.

#6: The same "bad daddy" then does a complete flip flop and puts his
life on the line to save Chappie. Which is going to die in a few hours
anyway. And not in any effective way I might add, he just decides to
become a sitting duck for some reason.

#7: The factory where all the mayhem originated from is the least
secure place in the city. And absolutely no one, except for the
protagonist and the antagonist, are able to go to the command console
and sort things out. In fact it just remains abandoned in all other
times.

#8: The childlike robot prodigy miraculously (again) is able to do a
feat no else had: transfer consciousness. With some banged up laptop
too.

#9: Police is nowhere to be seen, and despite being perfectly possible
to restore the malfunctioning robots from the control central no one
decides to even try it. There's just frantic panic and cowboy stunts.

There's more but you get the picture. To me the movie was painful to
watch. Every character seemed to be shouting all the time and have
complete disregard for logic. It was a dumb movie. The one nice thing
that temporarily took the pain away was the warm feeling you get when
you realize the robot is able to sacrifice his own life for the
survival of a human. So, 2 minutes out of 120. Maybe I should have
rated this even lower - but the 3/10 stands, because of visuals.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie definitely in the style of Niell Blomkamp.
However, some people might consider this a fault, as Elysium was a
little off the mark. What is great about the movie is its style. They
really went all out with Yolandi and Ninja (the main characters part of
the musical group Die Antwoord). Hugh Jackman is pretty hilarious as a
bloodthirsty war vet, selling his role pretty well. The technology in
this movie is fantastic, as usual coming from Blomkamp, leaving plenty
of ideas for the imagination to wonder about for the future. Of course,
Chappie really makes this movie; taking something so technical and
robotic, making it human in action. He really gets the feels going. I
haven't laughed like that in a movie theater in a long time. Add to
that the oddness of the characters influencing the development of
Chappie, this movie is gangster. 

Still, 9/10, super great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to watch it because I like scifi and AI/robot theme TV/movies in
general. Some I hate (Her, A.I.) some I love (Blade Runner, Battlestar
remake, Wall-E). This one, I love. I didn't have an opinion about Neill
Blomkamp. Didn't even know Hugh Jackman is in this movie so it was a
pleasant surprise.

I was emotionally moved and entertained. Chappie is one of - no, THE
MOST action-packed YET emotionally-engaging and HEARTFUL movies I've
watched in a while, no bored moments and no time for going into
meta-analysis. Can't believe I cared about a clunky metalic wire-ly
robot, haven't since the far-cuter Wall-E anyway. 

Dev Pattel is well cast, did the role total justice. Sigourney did her
part with just the right note. Hugh succeeded in compressing his
bigger-than-life self into an unglamorous (even unflattering)
thug-in-cubicle-job role. Very noble of him, lending his superstar
weight to this project. (showing Mr.BirdMan how a real-life hero
gracefully bow out of superhero phase of his film role)

In spite of the tension from start to end, people burst out laughing A
LOT throughout. There were lots of humor, but nothing contrived, just
Grade AAA seamless storytelling. And if the key characters act crazy,
it is explained why, without being captain obvious. Dialogs and
expositions, 99% SHOW vs tell, Mckee would be proud, not that it
mattered against the hateful bigots of pro critics Borg contingent. I
decided somewhere along 20 minutes in - I REALLY like this directorial
voice. 

The technical bits: the story craft, the plotting, pacing, editing, art
directing, effects, all superb and SEAMLESSLY EXECUTED. Zero complaint
there. My only beef is as usual the theological stuff but I will not
trash something this brilliant because it doesn't agree with my
spiritual viewpoint. 

Side note on IRRELEVANCY OF RT CRITIC SCORE (and probably Academy
Self-Awards) I never cared about Rotten Tomatos score but my other half
love to check it after every movie. We both anticipated the critics
will be hateful with this one because it features a non-American
director and 2 non-American male leads! But we didn't expect the
shamelessness level. At least the audience disagreed by a HUGE margin,
and the audience WORLDWIDE will continue to disagree as the box office
telly of Rest of The World come in. This movie is trashed due to PURE
POLITICAL reason. DUH. There are some really tightly-wound-up, bitter
ANALysts in the mainstream "art" critic scene, who have forgotten how
to feel sentient, and lost touch with everything, obviously.

Anyway, go watch it, just for entertainment. If you happen to be moved
then it is a bonus. It will prove that you have a heart, and more
sentient than the average Borgs who's tied into "networked group mind"
opinions.

Meanwhile I totally look forward to a sequel. 9/10. +1 just to annoy
the art-haters.
<|_=00=_|>
I believe this movie only solidifies my concrete statement that 21st
century is an age of pointless cinema. 

Most of the plot in Chappie either fails to follow common human logic,
or completely breaks it. This is a modern trend of over- dramatizing
the events by making "shit happen" in the literal meaning of this
phrase.

It all starts in a not-too distant future with an international
corporation, based in SAR, which solved the problem of rising crime
wave by introducing almost all-robotic police force.

Then few things just happen:

- The lead researcher makes a breakthrough in AI development and asks
company CEO to give him a broken robot for experiments. She "politely"
refuses and desperate doc risks his impressive paycheck and reputation
by stealing this piece of junk off the scrapyard.

- The rival former-military engineer fails to sell his combat machine
(which for some reason looks like robot-chicken from robocop) and after
another budget cut risks his not-so-impressive paycheck, but more solid
reputation as pioneer in neural interfaces, to sabotage the whole
"scout" operation and start a nationwide crime spree

- A local gang with looks of early 90s inspired cyberpunk movies get
into conflict situation with another dude. In order to solve this
problem they need to find 20.000.000 moneys, so the only logical
solution is to find a robot-maker and get a hypothetical OFF-switch, so
it will be easier to do whatever crimes they've planned with their
pumpkin heads.

They bust the doctor, while he was driving a van with a stolen robot.
After successful installation of new software they get a
semi-intelligent gansta-ninja robot filled with curiosity, deep
understanding of neural interfaces and human consciousness, but lacking
the basic knowledge of trauma, pain and death (even with internet
connection).

The end result: all robots are broken, everyone is dead. After lots of
shooting and the final boss battle Chappie revives the doctor and his
mama as robots. Credits start rolling, so are my strained eyes...

Gave it 3/10 for visuals. Everything else sucks. All the aspects of the
movie that fans claim to be unique and innovative have been
meticulously copied from many other(even recent) sci-fi titles with no
sign of shame or remorse.
<|_=00=_|>
Chappie is an interesting film because it could be ridiculed for random
themes and inconsistent story, or it could be praised for the fact that
it brings up a lot of ambitious ideas and concepts.

It is a really interesting film as far as themes go. The movie brings
up a lot of ideas that aren't brought up in most "AI" films such as:
Does the robot recognize his own mortality? Does the robot feel guilt?
How does the robot react to having one parent being a criminal and the
other parent being a respectful scientist? There were a lot of scenes
where I was thinking "Dang, this could lead to a pretty cool concept". 

Unfortunately, the movie never fleshes out any of its themes.

It is always very sad to see a movie like this: A movie that has all
the right elements to be good, but it gets too distracted in being too
many things so it never gets any of the elements right. For example,
one of the ingenious themes is the fact that Chappie has two parents: A
scientist and a very violent thug. On one side Chappie is learning
about the basics of language and how to be a model citizen, but on the
other side he is learning how to properly mug people, how to fight, how
to talk cool, how to walk cool, and how to earn respect from other
people. This is very interesting because the movie never starts Chappie
out as super intelligent, it starts him out as a very quick learning
child. This means you can see him slowly learn and make connections
between every event in his life.

A great example of this is Chappie is told that knives make people go
to sleep, so naturally Chappie tries to stab people until he is told
that they don't want to go to sleep. However, when Chappie starts
stabbing people later, you see him pause and looks into someone's eyes
and say "I'm sorry, I didn't know. Don't go to sleep". But he says it
very quietly so that no one else can hear.

These are some very deep and interesting themes and Chappie is a very
interesting character. Unfortunately, it never fleshes out its themes.
This means a lot of very profound themes will fly by in about five
minutes and not show up later. This also brings us to one hilarious big
issue with the movie:

Every scene involving the villain makes little to no sense. It's not
that I don't mind Hugh Jackman, or the approach they were taking, it
was how insane and over the top he becomes. He is supposed to be
playing a local engineer/scientist who wants to make human controlled
mechs that are grossly over-powered for the job of law enforcement.
Instead of modifying his idea and making it work for the job, he still
says that law-enforcement needs a mech with... mini-guns, claws,
machine guns, rockets, cluster missiles, and just about anything you
can think of. It really makes no sense to want that on the street. This
brings up several questions: Why not just sell it to the military? He
does work for a weapons company so if not law enforcement why not
military (He was hinted at being an ex- solider/Veteran). So his
obsession doesn't really make sense: If he really wants human
controlled machines, then make one less overpowered. If he really wants
an overpowered mech, then sell it to the military.

However, because he doesn't do either of these, he becomes an insane
psychopath who literally shuts down all of the security/robots in the
city just to prove that they need heavier firepower for the job. This
brings up a lot of plot-holes: How was he able to do this so easily?
Any company (even your local cable company) can track a computer that
is shutting down other equipment. How did no one notice him doing this?
Why didn't the protagonist tell anyone else that he was doing this? How
was he able to gruesomely kill fairly innocent people, while laughing,
and no one in the office space took notice? This element of the movie
truly absurd and doesn't even fit into the plot. He really is a
shoe-horned villain. Just about anyone else could've been the villain
and it would've made more sense. Why not the ring-leader from the
beginning? He said he wanted to shut- down all of the robots? Several
other people were looking for a remote to shutdown all of the robots,
so literally anyone could've been the villain and would've had better
motives than Hugh Jackman.

Other than that, the ending is a bit random, but I was okay with it
until the last minute or so. The very very end is kind of... okay? That
doesn't make sense with the universe's set rules, but... okay...
Fortunately, the other characters in this movie are pretty good. Some
people may find them annoying, but I found it interesting because its
not like Chappie fell into the hands of perfect people who knew how to
use him, Chappie fell into the hands of people who have no idea how
robots work or the science behind them. So certain people attach to him
differently. Some people treat him like a human, while others do not.

All in all, a smarter than your average film, but full of plot-holes
and issues. Kind of sad, really.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked District 9 and Elysium, so I was really looking forward to
Chappie, especially for the special effects that I'd seen in those
previous films. I felt like Chappie needed to be at least another hour
longer to convey the director's message properly. There are way too
many holes in the story to lead to such a thought-provoking ending.
I'll say there was sufficient delivery on the special effects, but the
story was not extensive enough. One - there's no explanation as to why
"Ninja" and his mates owe some master criminal millions of dollars; two
- one minute Chappie's being bullied by thugs and the next we're to
expect they're loving foster parents; and three - why would
transferring one's "consciousness" to another being also carry their
voice and accent over? I expect a movie to suspend my beliefs for a
couple of hours, but a story that flows well makes for $ better spent.
