
Zac Efron, Miles Teller, and Michael B. Jordan are very capable actors.
They've proved it time and time again, and That Awkward Moment is held
afloat because of the chemistry between these three actors. Their
bromance is electric. I would watch an Entourage-style show between the
three of them and their antics, it's that believable. Unfortunately,
the material they have to work with here is artificial and stupid.
There are some lines in this movie that no one would ever say. And I
know that's usually the case with romantic comedies, but this movie
takes it a step further and totally demeans women every chance it gets,
and I'm not one to point out misogyny in movies, but it just gets
stupid after a while. "Let's all make a pact to not get into a
relationship! Let's keep having sex with random girls and never fall in
love! High-five!" It's such a dumb premise, and it's like the script
keeps wanting you to hate these characters until they "redeem"
themselves by the end but again, it's so artificial that you don't buy
a second of it.

It's certainly watchable due to the three leads, but ultimately you're
left wishing the movie was good enough to accommodate for the acting
talent. There are a couple chuckle-worthy moments, and some clever
banter between the three guys, but most of the comedy falls flat and
the romance is absolutely insane from beginning to end. You don't
believe these relationships for a second. The dialogue for the most
part is asinine. It turns the characters into caricatures at times
because of how fake it is. No one in their right mind would say these
things, and no woman in their right mind would react positively to
these things. It's so forced from beginning to end.

That Awkward Moment isn't a bad movie. It would've been terrible if
they cast average actors, but thankfully the stellar cast keeps the
movie watchable and mildly entertaining until the end. As a romcom it's
insane, but then again, most of them are so you should know what you're
getting into with That Awkward Moment.
<|_=00=_|>
The ad campaign for TAM gives the impression that it will be, at the
very least, a fun romp, but don't be fooled. TAM asks us to sympathize
for and laugh with the most deplorable and chauvinistic of characters,
like the obnoxious guys in high school who thought they were funny but
weren't. Every "joke" is about poop or sex, which can be funny. Here,
however, they are so poorly delivered and juvenile it's hard to tell if
they were even meant as jokes or just as statements of misguided
philosophy. We follow three best friends who decide to call off real
relationships in lieu of hooking up with as many women as possible.
This tired story and accompanying dialogue are not only uninspired,
inauthentic, and stupid, but make no tonal sense here. The drastic
jumps from bad sex comedy to melodrama are so clumsy it's hard to know
whether to blame the editing, the directing, or the script. Such a
shame considering of the waste of young talent. Sure, Teller presents
moments of charm, but no one is really given anything of quality to
work with. There are a few laughs, but for the most part I couldn't
help feeling like I was watching a soon-to-be canceled sitcom. The
writers seemed more interested in writing bad one-liners than creating
originality or emotional connection between characters. Even my wife,
who normally loves anything classified as "romance" and/or "comedy",
resorted to playing Candy Crush for the last half. If you're looking
for a funny bro-mance, go see Anchorman 2. SKIP THIS!
<|_=00=_|>
"That Awkward Moment" is a romantic/sex comedy about three male best
friends in their twenties living in New York City. Two of them, Jason
(Zac Efron) and Daniel (Miles Teller), work all book cover designers in
a publishing house. The other, Mikey (Michael B. Jordan), is an
emergency room doctor. 

While Jason and Daniel are happily swinging singles with their rosters
of girlfriends, Mikey has just been told by his wife that she wants a
divorce. All three guys promise to each other that they would all
remain single together. 

Unknown to his friends though, Mikey strove to revive his marriage with
wife Vera (Jessica Lucas). On the other hand, Jason meets and gets
close to a new girl Ellie (Imogen Poots). Daniel begins to see his BFF-
and pick-up partner Chelsea (Mackenzie Davis) in a different light. Can
all three yuppies actually keep steadfast in their fraternal pledge?

Zac Efron is undeniably fit for this charming yet shallow and arrogant
character. It seems though that he had a step backward from his serious
portrayals in "The Paper Boy" and "Parkland" to find himself in rather
embarrassing scenes in the first third of the film (they were funny
though). However, in the final third, Zac was more in his element. His
final monologue alone reaffirms his status as romantic lead. This was
despite my opinion that his Jason and Ellie do not really jive
together.

Miles Teller plays the raunchy, noisy, annoying friend here. He is the
funniest and the most relaxed of the three main actors. He remains very
likable despite his smart-alecky character, coming across as a young
Andrew McCarthy. His chemistry with his partner Mackenzie Davis was the
best of the three pairs in the film. 

Michael B. Jordan is fresh from his acclaimed performance last year as
an ill-fated ex-con in "Fruitvale Station". His character is the most
stable of the three friends, and his character does not really get too
idiotic situations. He finds himself in more dramatic than comic
moments here, which makes his character feel like an odd man out.

The comedy aspect was only occasionally hilarious when an actor makes a
total fool of himself. There are two big comedy gimmicks here that will
make this film memorable. One was when they show Zac and Miles try to
pee while Viagra was still on full effect. The other was when Zac goes
to Ellie's birthday party with his awkward sense of "dress up." Other
than that, nothing really funny, more of annoying, grating and forced.

The romantic aspect fared better. It was actually quite well-written,
though treading on very familiar ground of male-female relationships
and commitment phobia. When is going out just simply going out? The
film was quite frank on scenes and language of a sexual nature though,
with scenes of semi-nudity of the three actors. I was surprised to see
this rated only R-13 locally. This should at least be an R-18 for me
because maturity is required to properly understand this aspect of the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
One would suspect that this film would offer the audience at least a
fun experience and a decent amount of humor, but That Awkward Moment
fails to deliver in every way. Not only does the film have a very
predictable storyline and clichéd characters, it is also poorly paced
and lacks any sort of momentum. The writing is weak and provides very
few humorous moments, with the only encouraging aspect being the
performance of Miles Teller, whose comedic talent does shine through.
Overall, however, the three leading men lack any sort of chemistry,
which results in disappointing delivery and causes the characters to be
uninteresting. That Awkward Moment therefore fails to produce
characters that are relatable on a emotional level, despite that being
the film's main aim.
<|_=00=_|>
"That Awkward Moment" was appropriately named, as most of the movie was
scripted, forced, and cliché. As a 23 year old female, I was actually
insulted that this is what Hollywood thinks is interesting or relevant
to my demographic. It seems as though people this age have been dumbed
down to toilet humor, drinking, cursing, and casual sex. The plot line
was so uninteresting and predictable that had I would have been more
intrigued watching an episode of Barney. It almost seemed like it had
elements of "Crazy, Stupid, Love" that went horribly wrong, especially
because of the lack of character development. The plot even fell short
of the cliché I was expecting, as at least 2 of the characters never
had that magical moment where they realize the wrongs of their ways and
mature. They were the same, stagnant personalities all the way through
the film, the only things that changed were their relationship
statuses. Having three main characters with their own stories, the film
had at least a 1 in 3 chance of making an intriguing story line.
Instead, the plot walked the already worn out path of the traditional
romantic comedy script. To make things even more painful, the comedic
timing was so off that even elements that could have been funny (the
coworker Fred) were just awkward and odd. The overuse of "f---" added
to the awkwardness as you could just tell that random cursing was
interjected into lines, maybe to make it more "youthful." 

Jordan's character, Mikey, was the character that I found most
bearable, as he seemed to have some sort of dignity or depth. Daniel,
played by Miles Teller, literally made me cringe with anger at his
nonchalant crassness, reminding me of that guy in high school who tries
to be funny but has no intelligence to back it up. Apparently,
repeatedly telling a girl that you are "the best b--- j-- receiver" is
endearing(?). Efron was completely unlikable and never really redeemed
himself or matured, making the film feel empty and unfinished. 

Overall, "Awkward" checked all the boxes of a basic romantic comedy,
including all of the wrong, stereotypically youthful ones. The only
thought I left with was wondering how Efron's character could afford
such a nice apartment.
<|_=00=_|>
That Awkward Moment seems like a promising comedy for guys, the raunchy
humor, objectifying women and boner pills. It sounds like a good time,
right? HELL NO!!! That Awkward Moment seizes every chance it gets to be
as clichéd as possible and to be as unfunny as possible. Zac Efron and
Michael B. Jordan turn in acceptable performances but that is
overshadowed by the thin-as-ice plot and crude humor, which ends up
losing two good performances in the mix. To be fair to those involved,
this film should have either been shelved or given more thought, either
or doesn't give this film a leg to stand on. The next Knocked Up it is
not. This is Sex and The City with too much testosterone and not nearly
enough laughs to justify any of the plot holes, clichés or how these
characters treat women. This isn't a rental, this is more like a bottom
dollar movie you take a chance on at Wal Mart.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so angry that I wasted my time watch this crappy movie.

The storyline was completely unoriginal and devoid of real humor and
intelligence.

The jokes were tired and pointless and we have heard it all before,
many times. The script was flimsy, and full of holes. The initial
reason why Vera left Mikey rang hollow. Surely if you had a problem
with your partners spontaneity, you would just tell them instead of
requesting a divorce. And suddenly, after one act of spontaneous love
making, they are on the road to recovery. I mean, how ridiculous is
that. Just one of many, many examples of this foolish story.

The acting was the pits; Zac Efron is just not a good enough actor to
be leading man material. The rest didn't impress me much either. There
was complete lack of charisma and absolutely zero chemistry between any
of the couples. Not funny, not fun and not interesting in the
slightest!
<|_=00=_|>
I have read a ton of reviews saying this movie is not worth seeing but
I don't understand. I laughed the whole time. Come on, it's three
20-something's fooling around with women. What do you expect? Oscar
winning acting, costumes, music and writing? No. It's a feel good
comedy meant to entertain you. And that's what I got out if it. And so
did the rest of the theater, I'm assuming from the constant laughter.

That Awkward Moment was not awkward at all! Just hilarious. Well, there
were a couple of awkward scenes but it added to the hilarity.

The specific "awkward moment" is when a girl says "so..."; the three
friends say that nothing good comes after a girl saying "so". For
example: "so, where are we headed" or "so, what are we?". But this is
me (a girl) saying "Soooo... That movie was hilarious! You need to see
it."

I mean, it did make me glad I have a bf already and don't have to deal
with guys like in the movie but they are funny, attractive and
charming.

I didn't like Ellie who is a main character. She seemed disheveled and
couldn't get a US accent just right the whole movie but everyone else
was wonderful. Especially Chelsea (Mackenzie Davis), she was the icing
on the Zac Efron, Miles Teller and Michael B. Jordan cake. Yum.

The movie definitely earned its R rating with swearing and adult
scenes. Oh, and Zac Efron does in fact Rock Out with a large, strap-on
(Blank) Out. For a good amount of time. So, be ready.

There was a woman behind me talking the entire time. PEOPLE. STOP
talking through movies! We can all read the 8 ft tall "three months
later" placed immediately in front of our faces. No need to narrate.

Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so there were some parts when their morals were completely off but
I still loved this movie! I loved that it was a comedy but at the same
time it had its completely serious moments. And Zac Efron and Miles
Teller shined in this movie. Especially Miles. He rocked in this movie.
I love it when Miles does a comedy but has his serious moments like in
The Spectacular Now. And Zac Efron. wow, Zac Efron. He really showed
you that High School Musical is over. He really stepped up his game in
this movie. And Micheal B. Jordan, wow he was awesome. I've never seen
him before but I really liked him in this movie. So, if you are looking
for a funny, a little heartfelt, sometimes serious movie, this is the
one for you. I would watch this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
I was discouraged when I saw the low ratings for this film, but
thankfully I had already started watching it. It is definitely not
comparable laughter-wise to movies such as This Is The End or 21 & 22
Jump Street, but it is very good. The type of humor may not be for
everyone, but I found it to be very relatable. The way the jokes were
delivered is how my friends and I joke most often. The actors in it
were great and the story moved at a nice pace. Miles Teller was great
and I now look forward to his work in the future, Imogen Poots was
lovely and Zac Efron was great as always. I don't think Efron gets as
much credit as he deserves. It portrays a few different likely dating
situations that people could find themselves In these days. I would say
it's more for twenty-something's than any other age group. If you are
at all curious about this movie I say you should give it a shot!
