
Just saw this movie at a film festival in Seoul and was quite
impressed. As is generally the case with film festivals, I didn't quite
know what to expect going in other than how it is similar to Saw. While
the similarity is there, Redd, Inc. is certainly its own film and one
that is worth watching. It involves a recently escaped mental
patient/prisoner who believes himself to be innocent and kidnaps the
unsuspecting people who were involved one way or another with the
conviction.

The movie lacks the sort of pathetic dialog the worst parts of the Saw
franchise often include as other films do, whether it's Saw, other
horror movies, or other other movies that involve multiple people in a
tumultuous situation. The dialog is often funny, usually necessary, and
never drab.

The director was kind of enough to show up and say a few things about
his film along with taking questions, during which time he brought up
his love of the comedy/horror genre. Often times horror movies are
funny when they don't want to be and corny when they are trying to be
funny, but Redd Inc. does a good job achieving what it is trying to
achieve at any given moment. In the end, everyone has a moment or many
of feeling chained to their desks.
<|_=00=_|>
It feels saw-Esq at the start, but that changes. I really enjoyed this
movie. I thought the acting was good. The camera work was fine. The
plot moved along nicely, I never got bored. If you don't mind blood and
gore, you will hopefully love this movie as much as I did. I would
recommend this movie to anyone age 18 and over. It is certainly no
worse than a Jason or Freddy movie. I really loved the very end. I
really liked the main girl, the actress did a great job. I hope she
does more movies in the future. Thanks for reading! If you liked this,
please uprate. I gave it 10/10, just because movies like this tend to
disappear, and I really liked this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching the movie. It wasn't one of those serious
slasher films. Even though I've seen innumerable horror movies, the
movie still made me cringe. It is sure to make some of the audience
want to cover their eyes during some killing scenes, which is not
necessarily a bad thing. The movie was explicit about showing minor yet
disturbing enough torture scenes, but seemed to deliberately censor the
major ones, which is understandable given the fact that it wasn't meant
to be a torture movie. The gore is not over the top and it is only
there to contribute to the story progression. It is more of a detective
movie, mixed with some joker-type madness, which slightly takes away
from the seriousness of the violent scenes, and somehow makes you keep
watching even if it makes you uncomfortable. You're going to watch a
bunch of people trapped in a single location trying to work their way
out. This means much of your time will be spent watching the characters
have lengthy conversations with one another in order to solve a murder
case. The movie is a mix of detective, torture, and comedy genres. I'm
not into comedy movies, but it kind of made this movie more appealing.
If it didn't have that funny feeling to it, I might have got bored due
to it resembling many other movies of this type. I must say the story
is very original and that alone makes this movie worth watching,
although I'm pretty sure for most of you out there it's going to be a
one-time watch only.
<|_=00=_|>
Chosen as the closing night film for the Australian Film Festival,
could REDD INC. be the film that relaunches the ozploitation craze of
the 70's and early 80's..? If the reaction from the sold out premiere
audience is any gauge, the answer is a resounding "yes!"

Redd Inc. starts with news reports and clips informing us that a serial
killer Thomas Reddmann (Nicholas Hope) known as the 'head-hunter' has
perished in fire during an attempted escape from a local mental
institution. Annabelle Hale (Kelly Paterniti) an online stripper who
was a key witness at Reddmann's trial is kidnapped and wakes up chained
to an office desk with 5 other people who were also involved with
Reddmann's trial in various capacities.

The captives are soon introduced to Mr Reddmann who informs them that
he is their regional manager and that they have a job to do. He
declares that he is innocent and expects them to work to the best of
their abilities to find the real head-hunter killer. Assigned to
different tasks using the court case documents, the 6 captives get to
work, or face a strike against their name, in the form of a cut to the
forehead 5 strikes and you're out.

Redd Inc. is a new low-budget Australian horror film from co-writers
Anthony O'Connor and Jonathan Green (who also co-produces with Sandy
Stevens), and director Daniel Krige; who have managed to deliver an
original take on a familiar theme.

The ensemble cast are all good, with Nicholas Hope turning in a
delightfully creepy performance as Redd and a nice cameo from Tom
Savini who worked as special make-up effects supervisor. Newcomer Kelly
Paterniti's character visibly grows in confidence throughout the film
and she's probably one to watch. However, the real star is the script,
littered with references to keep most genre fans happy; it's tight,
menacing and genuinely funny. Described by scriptwriter Anthony
O'Connor as "office giallo", placing the horror in the everyday office
makes the setting instantly recognizable to most of us and therefore
more unnerving due to that familiarity.

The effects which were done by Sydney based Make-up Effects Group
(MEG), and supervised by the legendary Tom Savini, are suitably gory
and in a few notable scenes had the cinema audience squirming. Slashes
to foreheads, removal of fingernails, limbs and heads are all on
display and considering the budget restrictions are all done
exceptionally well.

I really enjoyed the movie and would recommend it unreservedly to any
horror fan. With the release of last years The Tunnel and 2010's The
Loved Ones, Australian horror seems to be back in a good way, original,
gory and wickedly funny.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was invited to the preview of Redd Inc, I like others was not
sure what to expect. Having seen Angst a few years ago on TV I at least
knew I'd be getting a witty film, and I wasn't wrong. I'm a fairly
picky horror fan, but I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It
almost feels like a comic book in a lot of places, due to the colourful
way it is shot and executed. It was unexpectedly funny, had characters
I related to and I found myself rooting for their survival. The female
lead is spunky and has character, she's not a cardboard cut-out. I
enjoyed Redd Inc from start to finish, I felt it broke free of many of
the flaws and traps that horror films seem to fall into. To go into
more detail would be giving too much away. I highly recommend that
horror fans see this one for themselves. It's not big Hollywood, it's
definitely got that indie feel about it but there's fun to be had here.
<|_=00=_|>
A great story and solid performances with flawless special effects,
Inhuman resources stands out in the horror genre. The movie is tense
with many edge of your seat moments combined with the fear and
isolation of the 6 people held against there will. Nicholas Hope is
perfectly cast in his role as there demented former office professional
turned captor with his character ranging from a calm and professional
boss to outright psychopathic and twisted.

The story takes twists and turns along the way and it's entertainment
that keeps you clued to the screen giving the audience satisfaction for
there time. With the movie industry churning out endless no star horror
garbage, it's great to come across a film such as this where all the
right boxes have been ticked
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly tight and entertaining little Aussie thriller, ticks all
the boxes for the horror genre. Very well made and the story moves
along at a good pace and avoids horror movie clichés as much as it can
for a low budget inde flick. Pretty scary with some really great scenes
will have you watching through your fingers! Good to see a cameo from
Tom Savini the master of gore, and some really great performances from
the cast. Nic Hope must surely be one of the most under utilised actors
around today and he gives a good performance as the maliciously
murderous boss from hell. Also stand out performances from Sam Reid and
Hayley McIlhenney, make this a very enjoyable way to spend a creepy
night on the couch with a box of popcorn which may end up on the floor
by the end credits.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who have felt chained to their desks in the Cubicle Farm,
this ones for you. A Yuppie Yarn of Corporate Headhunters played
against a Plot of a convicted Serial Killer and his "rehabilitation"
and revenge. 

This is a Gory Story, Fangoria Films and Fans wouldn't have it any
other way. The best part of this Saw and Hostel influenced Movie is
that it has its decapitated head in the right place. That is, it does
not take itself so pretentiously serious like those other over rated
Franchises. 

It is a lively, colorful Film that is loaded with talent on and off the
Screen. The Story gets ever more complex as it moves along and in the
end it is rewarding enough to rise above the lesser entries in this
Genre. It utilizes its Low-Budget and drains every drop of the
lifeblood and gladly and Artistically spreads it across the Screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was quite well done and with great special effects by Tom
Savini, the movie is really good. The story has some similarities to
some of the SAW movies with its kidnap/torture scenes, but thats where
the similarities stop as it gets you guessing and thinking that maybe
Redd is not the killer. But you can never rule him out after the things
he does to his kidnapped victims. Nicholas Hope (who also starred in
BAD BOY BUBBY) plays the role of the disgruntled boss very well, you
want to hate him but with the underlying fact that he may be innocent,
you also want to believe him. So you are torn between what looks like
the truth and what could be the a lie. There is a bit of a twist to it
but if you look for the clues you can almost work it out before you get
to it. But apart from that this is a great little movie. I give it a
solid 8 out of 10. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I was invited to a preview of Redd Inc intending to leave early. I held
both arms of the seat throughout. It's grisly but it's also very well
written. I've been a Criminal Lawyer 40yrs and seen much of psychopaths
and cruelty. This movie nails it. Surprised at negative reviews. My
favorite movie of this genre since Cape Fear! See it. The movie dwells
on the allegedly wrongful conviction of Nicholas Hope for a murder in
an elevator.I truly was taken by surprise and won't spoil the ending.
Suffice to say that it has been my long experience in many homicide
cases,more than 300, that there is nothing more wronged than a criminal
who is falsely accused of even the slightest crime amongst all their
evil deeds merrily committed. Nicholas Hope embarks on revenge and the
examination of all those that contributed to the errors that had him
locked away for a crime he says he didn't commit. Hey, I'm used to
horrible people but this guy is something else!
