
I really liked the first ResEvil movie, and I've been going along with
them ever since, but this is the end of the line for me. This movie was
a total waste of time and money. There's no plot, just a situation that
Alice has to fight her way out of. There are some good stunts but
nothing we haven't seen before. Most of the action is just
ridiculous...bad guys that don't die, guns that don't run out of ammo,
characters that can be interchangeably good or evil at the whim of the
scriptwriter. It's like a five-year-old playing with toy soldiers. The
actors are so wooden, and look so plastic that I honestly couldn't tell
if they were CGI creations or actual human beings.

Milla and her husband should be ashamed of themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure if this movie is only for videogamers, but I can't see anyone
else caring to sit through it. The movie made it quite clear, early on,
that there would be no complicated plot lines or character development.
And the dialogue was equally simplistic. The lines sounded something
like this - go to the 3rd mountain and collect 20 coins and 3 golden
power boosters. One quickly sensed this was not a movie at all, rather
a simple video game cut scene. Also problematical were the incredibly
goofy scenes with thousands of bullets aimed point blank at the heroes
and all of them missing. It just takes all of the fun out of a movie
when there is absolutely no sense of danger to the heroes.

On the plus side, the action sequences were very well shot and the cgi
was first class. That said, it just wasn't enough to make this reviewer
glad to be sitting in the audience
<|_=00=_|>
I love Resident Evil series. Despite the mediocre reviews it gets in
the past, I still go to the cinema on its release and always looking
forward for the next sequel. 

But RE5 fails beyond believe. The storyline is utterly crap. The action
are cheesy, the actors are cheesy, the whole movie is a joke to the RE
series. I am completely disappointed at how the whole movie turns out
to be.

*spoiler alert* The whole movie is set on one giant Umbrella underwater
laboratory and Alice and friends is trying to break out of it. Along
the way they encounter some zombies and finally got out. And that's
literally about the summary of the whole story!

They try to use music to intensify everything.. but it becomes very
cheesy. Especially towards the end before the final fight when Jill
walks out of the submarine.

The Red Queen is total crap. Cheesy, stupid.. 

The fighting scene itself is very cheesy and unrealistic. They hardly
get hit by a bullet even when they were standing in open view. But it
seems like their bullet always managed to hit the enemy. Even the one
bullet that hit Alice, didn't even do her much harm. What a load of
crap.

At the final fight, it was obvious some of them had had their bones
cracked. But they were still standing and fighting as if their bone is
not really a necessary part of their body. They look pretty healthy for
someone with broken bone!

When Alice beats Jill.. it was so obvious from the beginning that
that's what needs to be done. But the scriptwriter must've made Alice
so dumb that she did not realize that from the beginning. Sadly, the
viewers are not as dumb as the scriptwriter.

And on the final scene when Leon touches Ada's thigh.. THATS AS
CHEESIEST AS IT COULD GET! I could almost cry looking at that scene.
What the f... *sigh*

I apologize for using a lot of "cheesy" word in my review. But it is
exactly how I feel when I see it. It's like a bunch of amateurs movie
makers trying to make action movie.

All in all, I wouldn't even rate it 5 for effort. Its a total lazy
movie writing. I still want to see RE6, but I seriously hope they do
not FAIL as big as this one. 

What a load of crap this movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
I was doing a small Resident Evil movie marathon in preparation for
seeing this movie, and I was really looking forward to see how they
could save the ending of the fourth one - But I was quite hopeful that
I would at least get a good action story with an acceptable plot. That
have been true for all the others in the series so why not this one.

Well was I in for a rude awakening. Honestly if you enjoyed all the
former movies and you consider them "part of their own story" meaning
that your pretty much ignoring the video games when watching the movies
then you'll find yourself even more amazed by how terrible this movie
is.

I will avoid going into details about plot as others have done that and
perfectly expressed the errors in it (I am of course referring to those
more negative reviews you'll find as most of the very positive ones
doesn't really put a lot of effort into mentioning it.. maybe because
even they would have trouble claiming it to be a good movie then ;) ).

But I can easily sum-up the main problems with this movie: The plot and
the acting. That is not a good thing for a movie and trust me it shows.
The plot has some vague references to the former movie, but that's
quickly forgotten and all your in for is a mess of action scenes and
bad (and I mean bad) CGI effects. Somehow the actors manage to look not
in the least interested in the gun battles they take part in, and at
the same time do a damn good job to remove any sense of immersion you
might have scrapped together, for instance by appearing utterly
unfamiliar with handling their weapons.. There is some odd alien
references.. or more likely "inspired" events that make no sense in the
overall story and world.

Finally the whole absurd-storm will end with you sitting back confused
as to what you just watched, shaking your head in shocked astonishment,
trying to comprehend just how bad it was. Then the anger will arise due
to the disappointment of what this could have been and here I am
writing a review to warn others.

I personally will not count this as part of the series, I'll count it
as the series failed little-brother rip-off that should never ever have
been made.

I cannot in any situation recommend this movie.. by far the most
disappointing, meaningless and confounded mess I ever saw.
<|_=00=_|>
I was eagerly looking forward to the 5th installment of this series and
I am sorry to say that I have been really let down! Apart from the once
in a while visuals, the movie has not been able to get even close to
expectations. The first 10 minutes of the movie and you will start
feeling disconnected from the movie already not caring at all what is
gonna happen in the next scene. After resident evil 3 & 4, I was
expecting a lot out of this installment and from Paul W.S. Anderson but
he has not been able to live up the mark at all. The action scenes
rather than being nail-biting, turned out to be hilarious and funny.
There isn't a single moment in the movie where you are actually glued
to screen. Milla Jovovich looks pretty as always, but that won't save
the movie. All others have done a horrible job with their acting,
especially Sienna Guillory. I would say that the only reason you would
want to watch this movie is if you are a fan of the resident evil
series and you don't mind wasting your money and time for the sake of
this series.
<|_=00=_|>
Well this movie is like a game. Watching this movie is like watching a
kid playing one level of video game. But you're watching this during
1.5 hours.

During first 15 minutes of the movie I had only one thought in my mind:
"what a hell is this?"

There is no plot, no catchy story like in previous parts. Here you have
several blocks and a lot of stupid shooting and fighting without a hint
to be a bit realistic. The final fight is like a raping of your mind -
too much FX's, too less reality and common sense, it's against
everything good in the world.

Actors are great. After a deadly injury a character doesn't show any
sight of the pain except in his words.

Dialogs in the movie are fantastic If you'll write down all the lines
of all characters, you'll hardly fill 1.5 pages A4 size.

Watching this movie a felt like I'm fooled - creators didn't want to
work to make it interesting, they used CGI+FX+fighting+shooting without
everything else that makes movie worthwhile, and sold it to me using a
bright wrap.

People were leaving the movie theatre in the middle of this picture.

Hope next movie will be much better.
<|_=00=_|>
All I can say is, "Stop." Just please stop. No more. Alice, shut up. We
know your name is Alice. Enough. We're 5 movies in now and it hasn't
gone anywhere and it's not going anywhere. It's not even enough eye
candy for fans of the games. I blame myself for being a glutton for
punishment I guess; I've seen all the Resident Evil movies so far so I
guess I'm in for the long haul. An overlong-haul. The fact that I'm a
huge fan of the games unfortunately doesn't help when passing judgment
on the movies. Retribution is, in my opinion, the worst one to date.
The story is just, for lack of a more sophisticated word, DUMB.
*Spoilers to follow*An underground facility that uses clones to
recreate outbreaks? Sounds like a huge waste of time and resources to
me. And the reasoning behind having said facility? To show China what
the outbreak would look like in the United States. To show Japan what
the outbreak would look like in Russia. Really? You mean you couldn't
just put a zombie in a room with 4 people and show them what happens?
Or at least a computer simulation? Much more cost effective. Having a
big dumb facility just makes for having a lot of big dumb plot holes
and questions. With all of those clones running around down there, you
mean to tell me you can't just repopulate the human race? How do you
keep having enough clothes to clothe them all? Who cleans up the bloody
messes after each simulation? Why does Wesker have a change of heart
all of a sudden for the human race and wants Alice to help save it?
Wasn't he hell-bent on trying to kill everyone in the last movie
Resident Evil: I'm Lost? Why does Umbrella have a supply of leather
costumes for Alice? Why doesn't anyone have to reload ever? Leon's not
using the Chicago Typewriter and I don't see anyone shooting any BSAA
emblems, so according to all reasoning ever, guns need to be reloaded
occasionally. Why didn't Alice just F'n recognize the ridiculously
OBVIOUS glowing "bad-guy" looking scarab on Jill's chest? HEY! That
must be her source of evil! WHERE IS CHRIS AND CLAIRE REDFIELD? Whose
bright idea was it to have a deaf clone?! THE LIST GOES ON AND ON!!!!!!
Call this movie Resident Evil: Plot Holes. Although we love seeing our
favorite characters and subtle nods towards the games, we don't
appreciate them being utterly stupid. Please do it right otherwise
you're doing us a disservice. Throwing in new characters doesn't do
them justice. I'm really glad you included Leon so he could have such a
stimulating conversation with Alice. "I'm not letting you pass," "Let
me pass," "Ok." And THAT WAS BARRY?! Seriously? Oh good, you gave him a
Colt Python, so he's automatically Barry. Ada was at least legit;
everything about her was right, if nothing else in the movie. Here they
mentioned Las Plagas. According to this movie, Las Plagas are steroids
you can inject into your Michelle Rodriguez to make her do X-Ray
punches to people's hearts a-la the new Mortal Kombat. I'd much rather
see her turn into a "head sprouter" than seeing her juiced up on
'roids. We've seen Girl Fight already. You know what, I'd rather just
not see her at all, because she is in no way important. Oh, and hi
Luther, I'm glad you survived the last movie and mysteriously teamed up
with Leon. It's so important that you survived because you're such an
integral part in this one...oh no now you're dead. Great job.
Everything about this movie is just stupid. I didn't see it in 3D thank
God, but I'm sure that sucked too. It's time to just scrap the
franchise. Matter of fact, it was time to scrap it 3 movies ago. Just
make a REAL Resident Evil movie for the love of everything holy. Going
in, you know the movie is bad, so I got what I deserved, but my God, I
didn't think the franchise could actually get any worse. The bright
side? This movie hit rock bottom so the next one couldn't possibly any
worseor could it?
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a long time fan of the Resident Evil series even when people
criticized them left and right. I thought they were really
entertaining, stylish and inventive. Until now. There is no way I can
stick up for this movie or any reason I'd even want to. I can't really
give you a synopsis cause I'm not even sure what I just watched. All I
can say is that it was huge disappointment in every facet possible.
Despite the silliness of the previous films they always grounded
themselves in some type of realism within the reigns of its premise.
This entry doesn't even feel like it's a part of the same franchise.
Gone is the fun and it's been replaced with ritzy production values and
no discernible storyline. It's a movie based on a video game in which
they are actually part of a video game and nothing is really happening.
Despite a somewhat promising start with a cool reverse battle sequence,
a best of franchise film reel and an inventive and even a little scary
trip into suburbia we than move on to the supposed purpose of the film
which just doesn't make sense at all. I mean the choices are just
astoundingly bad why make the little girl deaf and the film filled with
sign language, why set it in this underground facility, why is all of
this happening, with this type of technology how does the remaining
human population even have a chance, how is Wesker alive and why is he
good now? he's not human??? None of these questions will be answered
and lets not even discuss the frustratingly awkward scenes like one in
which one of the good guys has a double unnecessary death, an
uninspired nod towards the Alien franchise and repetitive scenarios
that get less effective the more you see them (really the squid face
things). Also, the acting has never been good in the Resident Evil
series but Milla Jovovich had evoked a cool sense of fierce heroine,
this time around she just seems plain bored as do the other actors.
Filled with insipid dialogue, questionable plotting,overlong pacing, a
weird bad movie from the 90's score, mediocre fight choreography
(except for the scene with the chain) and a crapload of wasted
potential this movie just feels like a bad dream. Sometimes, when I'm
really looking forward to a movie I'll dream about it the night before
and it will be horrible well this is what this feels like. Because in
no possible way, what I just watched is a resident evil movie. Despite
all of my complaining the movie does have some decent scenes the
suburbia one I brought up before was kinda neat, another featuring Ada
and Alice against 2 ax men and the chain fight in Tokyo. Besides that
it's all just a big plodding waste of existential cinematic trash. A
brainless, soulless unintentionally funny horror/action/sci fi hybrid
that despite a larger budget,returning cast members and more impressive
production values feels like an overlong filler episode that leaves me
with a big question mark. Why has this happened to my beloved
franchise???
<|_=00=_|>
I have fond memories of every Resident Evil game in the main series and
I am a fan still clamoring to play Biohazard 1.5. I still remember
renting the directors cut of the first game way back in the 1990's. Of
course back then we had the rumours of a George A Remero directed film
that would be released after the commercials starring Brad Renfro
started airing in Japan. For awhile we were under the mistaken belief
that the father of zombie films would be bringing one of the best
zombie video games to the silver screen. In 2002 we were unfortunate
enough to see the first film of a truly bad what would become movie
franchise. It saddens me to see that the franchise will most probably
see a sixth entry.

The film starts off with a slow mo scene played in reverse, then just
played, what should have been the ending of the last film is the
beginning of the new film and I wouldn't be surprised if it was the
ending of the previous film as we are then treated to a recap by Alice
herself of every other film. What a waste of time and money. A homage
to the zombie films of the 70's is the best scene in this film where
Alice is now living in Suburbia with a husband and an kid. the zombies
pile in and Michelle Rodriguez is reintroduced as the most worthless
character, unsurprisingly it is a clone. the scene ends and we return
to an truly awful storyline. It tries to imitate Operation raccoon City
or the mercenaries play mode by having different scenarios in Moscow,
New York and Suburbia, it is explained by the crap story point that
umbrella tried to sell the virus by showing potential buyers what the T
Virus is capable of. It also introduces Ada Wong at this point looking
very much like the character in the game, not very well acted by the
actress but that has become an trademark of the franchise) so it is an
surprise when the Kevin Durand actually makes an decent Barry Burton
and it is a joy even for a few remote seconds to be treated to an
character that was in the video game that is actually done justice.
Leon s Kennedy also appears but he is not given much screen time and
unlike Kevin does not stand out and it is all to blame to the fact that
Alice should be kept alive and invincible (could this be due to the
fact that the director is married to Milla Jovovich). Albert Wesker,
let me just stop there i don't want to talk about that butchering.
Aside from the overall acting with an few exceptions, the backgrounds
especially in the 3d version seems like it was done through the age old
method of playing a film behind the actors and actresses, this does not
do much especially in 3d, it looks crap and it does not have the charm
other bad movies have or the old time horrors have. the film is bad in
every aspects, the trailers is better than the film hell, the trailer
for devil may cry had better story line than the entirety of this film.

the sad thing about this all Resident Evil return and so will Alice.
Paul WS Anderson will get richer though he has an less than stellar
career and has made mediocrity into a industry that is profitable. Stop
these kind of films now and in the future we might have an industry
based on quality rather than quantity. As for my love of the games,
can't wait for Resident Evil 6 (once again clarification the game not
the film.) but please no more spin offs.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the Resident Evil films. Sure, they are campy, but they are
always fun and are usually a great action flick.

Retribution is absolutely not the case. Does it have lots of action?
Yes, but when you have such a weak plot line as is showcased here not
even GOOD action can save it. Even the action scenes themselves are
horrendous, with mediocre at best special effects in most parts and
ludicrous scenarios that never play well off of one another, not to
mention the 20 page script for the entire film. The only lines
delivered all seem like they were a Jr. High film project, and add
nothing to the story except one liners and catchphrases.

All in all, this film is easily on my top 10 worst films of all time
list, and I doubt many things will surpass it in the future.
