
The Words draws you in with its beautiful cinematography and engaged
dialog. I was especially impressed with the layers of the presentation.
Most films these days will spoon feed you a flat story and leave no
room for personal interpretation. The Words layers a complex open-ended
plot that demands viewer involvement. I was surprised with the simple
surface story presented as each deeper layer was uncovered. Sometimes
it came as a subtle hint when other times it hits you straight in the
face. The film has the flavor of Memento or Inception; which is
refreshing these days. Bradley Cooper surpassed my expectations. I
never once saw his type-cast Hangover/Limitless ticks or mannerisms. He
was completely in touch with the character and never fell back on
default techniques.
<|_=00=_|>
If you never see a movie unless EVERYONE else LOVES it... then skip
"The Words". However, if you are able to enjoy a movie in spite of
silly reviewers questioning the ending, the plot twists, or perhaps and
don't require countless Dukes of Hazard-style car chase scenes and
seeing the nude bodies of the leading ladies... then go see "The Words"
and enjoy it! My wife a I went with another couple last night, and we
all generally liked it or loved it! We planned on dinner afterward and
this gave us time to discuss it... and that was helpful because we all
had taken away different interesting bits. The actors are good to
terrific. Jeremy Irons is exceptional! BUT...WHAT did it all mean? WHO
CARES!!! It meant, quite simply, they made a great movie that requires
one to have a mind to enjoy it. ;) Enjoy "The Words" for what it is...
something different, finally!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not sure what Hollywood considers a good movie but I know this is
an excellent film. The story is told with such elegance and fluidity
that it is a joy to watch. I am buying this movie for my personal
collection to make sure that I watch a film, from time to time, that
reminds me of art in its highest form. The actors are brilliant, the
direction is genius, photography is captivating and the scriptwriting
is unparalleled. I completely loved this movie. 

Though it was not a blockbuster hit bringing in hundreds of millions,
it did earn back its original investment costs and nearly that figure
again. 

Just when you think you know how it's going to go - the movie bends
then twists into another path. Just brilliant!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a rare and brilliant combination of book and movie. You
will see this movie like reading a book, just Your imagination will be
rest, replaced with this lovely pictures and actors. Words and frames
will flow smoothly together before Your eyes, like a big, calm river
but with volume, deepness and strenght. The narrator (good choice for
Dennis Quaid, especially for His voice) will read for You, Jeremy Irons
("the old man"-a wonderful play of course), Bradley Cooper (just
slightly under the other two great actors), Dennis Quaid, Zoe Saldana
(good enough), Olivia Wilde (bad choice), Ben Barnes (nice play) and
the others, will told the story in a great acting. Highly recommended
for film and book lovers too. Beside the good story and acting, what I
like most in "The words" is the words.
<|_=00=_|>
Absent of cheesy one liners, cgi explosions and presumably never ending
car chases it was not surprising to see the lack of respect this movie
has received. It is telling of our culture to pass by a story, full of
such raw, human, emotion, with dis-contempt and frailty.

'The Words' is a movie about life, mistakes and the pain we can all
feel inside, and it is this ability to relate that makes it so
powerful. It gives me hope, along with a select other few, that
cinematic story telling has not simply been reduced to the next ex-cia
to shoot up the town, or romantic comedy with the same stale happily
ever after ending.

It is real, and comes with the all of the uncertainty and heartbreak of
life.
<|_=00=_|>
This is such an under-rated movie and it is so sad that it will not be
seen by more people.

Bradley Cooper has a great career ahead as a producer, he was very
smart to make this project. The four generations of great actors were
so well- chosen, each one the sexiest man alive I'm sure at one time or
another. For me it was Dennis Quaid, and I saw more of the old Dennis
Quaid in this movie than in a very long time. Bradley Cooper is the
third generation actor in this piece and he really shows his acting
chops. He's not just a pretty face! The pretty face is now Ben Barnes
and what a great face it is. He is perfect as the young 'old man' in
Paris after the war.

I almost never like stories within a story, now do I like stories about
authors or actors, they always seem so navel-gazing, but this movie
trumps all of those problems in such an amazing excellent way. 

Watch this movie, you won't be sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
It's difficult to really determine what this films true intention was
at first, but then you realize that this movie is more honest and open
then you hope for. It's deep to say the least, it really pulls you in
and makes you feel for the characters involved, especially Jeremy Irons
Character (past and present). The true price of falsely claiming a work
of art is yours isn't the guilt that you didn't write it, its the
realization that you could never create it on your own. This movie is
inspiring as it is overwhelming, not to be taken into high regard but
it was very much worth paying attention to. If you write, if you draw,
if you create anything that makes you proud that you did it, share it,
if not you will regret it for the rest of your life, that was the true
message of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Words is an engaging film, and almost feels more like a book on 
screen. And like a good book, it quickly reins you in and keeps 
entertaining until the end.

The writer/director team of Brian Klugman & Lee Sternthal is miles away 
from their script for the forgettable Tron: Legacy. With The Words they 
take their time by using their catchy story within a story technique to 
develop their intriguing characters. The Words may not have the heft 
compared to other favorites for Best Original Screenplay come this 
Oscar season, but it is respectable feat for the writer/director duo.

Bradley Cooper (The Hangover, Limitless) delivers a nice subtle 
performance as a struggling writer drowning in a sea of desperation. 
Cooper continues to hack out diverse performances that continue to show 
his range and win over more fans. He's proving that he is not just 
Hollywood's latest flavor of the week. The rest of the cast is strong, 
and headlined by Jeremy Irons (The Man in the Iron Mask, Being Julia) 
as a broken down old man surprised to see his long lost book on the 
best-seller list with some young punk's name attached.

The Words was dumped into theaters on what is historically known as the 
worst weekend for movie attendance, and most likely won't garner much 
of an audience. The film will also have trouble living up to the 
competition come Oscar season, but it delivers an entertaining and 
appealing film on the first weekend of fall award season releases.


<|_=00=_|>
I dare not tell the story as to spoil it. I too was in a packed theater
but with 800 people in attendance. The story was well executed.
Although some reviews were not good, I went and saw this movie anyways.
This movie sold out as soon as it hit the Sundance Film Festival list.
I was fortunate to secure a seating. All the Actors were fantastic!
Olivia Wilde didn't get much of a part. I would of liked to see her
character more developed. Bradley Cooper has been criticized for taking
this part and they have said it was a poor choice on Bradleys part. I
highly disagree. Movies are not meant to be highly MINDLESS! This movie
takes an open heart to watch and love! It was easy to like the
characters. Especially the UP AND COMING Ben Barnes! How do you play a
character That well? without many words? I have followed this Brit's
career and It will SOON explode on our American soil! I was very moved
by Bens actions and reactions in the film. Ben's movements and actions
as he fell in love and lost, and his reaction to another loss was
phenomenal! He was VERY believable! Many were physically and
emotionally moved by Ben Barnes's performance! For those who were
fortunate to see Ben Barnes Performance in Sebastion Faulks Birdsong
would agree that this guy will go far. And good luck to him as well as
all who had small and large parts of this movie

This movie has a "Princess Bride-ish" type format. In that the story
reader goes back and forth. This movie made you think! It made you
feel! And will make you feel for days to come!
<|_=00=_|>
The Words is a story within a story within a story. I absolutely loved
the story within the story. A masterful telling of an intriguing
situation with wonderful acting and believable emotions that, at both
levels, tugged at my heart strings. However, the third level added very
little, or should I say distracted from the rest. It was meant to put a
twist on the story within the story, to make the viewer think and
wonder, but it was mostly a distraction, and the acting was far
inferior to the other two levels. The producers should have seen this
but instead, they took something great and made it good. Another
reviewer said somewhere that negative reviews were from people who
"didn't get it". That's pretty conceited by them to think that they
were the only ones who got it. Trust me, I got it, I just didn't like
it. All that being said, it was still worth watching, if only for the
two inner layers.
