
I can't say I went in to the theater with high hopes. I did enjoy the
first installment of this unnecessary reboot, almost anything seemed
like a step up from "Spiderman 3", and Garfield felt way more natural
than Maguire, and Emma Stone is always welcome. But after seeing the
first trailer I thought it seemed like a total mess, and I wasn't
convinced by Electro one bit. Unfortunately I was spot on, I hoped to
at least get an enjoyable time at the cinema with my friends, but ended
up feeling quite uncomfortable and laughing throughout most of the
film. 

Garfield and Stone has their chemistry and does their best with the
incredibly thin script and cheesy one-liners, but their potential quite
beautiful scenes together gets lost in the over-full and messy plot. I
can't buy an emotional scene that is interrupted by heavy dub-step and
a blue electric guy.

Oh Jamie Foxx, how did you go from Django to this? Before he goes all
CGI-Electro he tries to play the nerdy unseen scientist (with a worse
comb-over than Christian Bale's 'Hustle'-look). As Electro it's hard to
say how much is his fault, and what can be blamed on the rest, I'd go
with the rest. You don't sympathize with him nor do you believe how
fast he becomes this super-villain. 

Everything that Dane DeHaan did so well in "Chronicle" just feels
unnatural and (maybe not misplaced, but wrong) here. And his character
development is way too rushed and quite unnecessary for this film, it
just becomes another sub-plot standing in the way of what really
matters. 

Sally Field does good work as Aunt May, but leaves no lasting mark.
Paul Giamatti's Russian criminal is just in the way and only gives a
couple of dreadful and laughable scenes. And then there's the mad
German scientist named Kafka and I rest my case. 

The action and visuals isn't bad, but still doesn't make up for the low
"trying to be Marvel"-comedy and horrific soundtrack, a soundtrack that
almost itself destroys the film throughout the exhausting 142 minutes.
And sometimes it feels like the movie is taking us as an audience to be
stupid, with pointers to what is going to happen. I would like to say
that you might enjoy it if you just try and see it for what it is, but
it's hard, but hopefully possible! It had an interesting start, with a
glimpse inside the past and Peter's parents, but it's left
underdeveloped, as is almost everything else, to make room for all its
action and villains.

It's amazing how the difference between two big-budget superhero-movies
can be so huge, if you put this against "Captain America: The Winter
Soldier", a great and, opposed to this one, original film. 

Oh how I wish that Marc Webb could have continued with a "(500) Days of
Summer"-esque movie instead, he could keep the sub-plots starring
Garfield, Stone and DeHaan, and it could very well be a great film, and
probably not such a waste of talent.
<|_=00=_|>
The Amazing Spider-Man 2 has technical merits. However, these merits
are impossible to enjoy in a film drowned from beginning to end in the
sickening narcissism of both its purported hero and supposedly tragic
villains.

I give you The Amazing Spider-Man: a hero with no principles and no
goals. He sometimes cares about a girl and sometimes wants to know what
happened to his parents, but day-to-day he really only cares about
doing what he wants to do--which happens to be helping people, it
seems, because it gives them "hope." And what luck! He gives them this
just by being himself. Not by being a better person. Not by sacrificing
anything else in his life for the greater good. Just by being strong
and smart and doing exactly what he feels like doing because that's how
he feels. And look: by being himself, other people want to be like him.
What a wonderful message for a self-obsessed age. And watching the box
office dollars roll in, it would seem that this is just what everyone
wants to hear.

Ah, but lovable doe-eyed Petey gives up Gwen for the greater good,
right? No he doesn't. He gives her up because he can't face the guilt
of having contributed to her father's death--his guilt, and his
unquestioned inability to give up being a famous public figure, lead to
his need to break up (And his principled stand on this issue is so
strong that he will renege on it whenever he feels randy). We never see
Peter torn between helping people and helping himself. We see him torn
between two paths to self-gratification: the adulation of public
heroism (and public vilification, which is a kind of adulation) and the
love of a single woman. What about Aunt May? No, not her--she's just in
the way of Spidey laundry.

This is the major problem with the reboot: The overshadowing death
isn't Uncle Ben's. It's Captain Stacy's. And Captain Stacy didn't die
because Peter was self-absorbed. Captain Stacy died because Peter
existed. So the standard for Peter being a good person or bad person
has nothing to do with his character--it has only to do with his
presence. During an over-the-top car chase in the first act, rather
than stop a massive truck from smashing through a set of cars (which
Sam Raimi has shown us he could have done, assuming equivalence between
a truck and a train), Spidey ducks out of the way only to come back
after the carnage. This is a hero who says, "I'm here for you--until
it's inconvenient for me, then you're on your own."

The long and short of it is that this Spider-Man is in no way heroic.
Superheroes are heroic because, while they could decide that they are
unconcerned with our struggles, they still feel a moral obligation to
help the average Joe. This Spider-Man seems to feel obliged to help
only because, as someone superior to everyone else, the world's
problems must naturally fall on his shoulders. Not because someone died
due to his inaction--because he's exceptional. And helping inferior
people is what exceptional people do. Sometimes. When they're not busy
dealing with exceptional-person stuff. Like obsessing about parents who
unjustly abandoned them while feeling no responsibility whatsoever for
the uncle they themselves abandoned.

Add to this a pair of villains who go from being apparently
well-meaning if somewhat imbalanced individuals to homicidal maniacs
due to a single rejection episode, and you have a two-hour cesspool of
poorly justified destructive self-obsession. 

Electro could have been a tragic Frankenstein villain. Instead, because
a group of random people roots for Spider-Man over him in his first
public appearance, he decides everyone should die. Yup--that's his
motivation. You don't love me because I'm me? Well, I'll kill you all.
Thank you, Columbine.

Harry's the same. After a five-minute meeting in which Spider-Man
refuses give him his blood--which he truly believes, based on a single
night's research on a single computer file, is the only thing that can
save him from a horrible death that won't happen for another 40
years--Harry decides that Spider-Man needs to die right now. And
everyone who dies in the process of saving his own old-age skin is
perfectly okay. This despite Harry having been Peter's best friend only
48 hours before--though not because they have a long history together,
but because they talked for a few hours and remembered how they were
friends eight years ago. And it's not like either of them developed any
other close relationships over their entire time in high school and
college. (Let that be the only mention I will make of this film's
preposterous set of causes and effects--and its
Attack-of-the-Clones-inspired need to intellectually dictate emotional
importance rather than meaningfully display it.)

The original Spider-Man had a single moment of narcissism. Count 'em:
one. Only once did Peter Parker step up for glory, himself, and his own
objectives, and he immediately paid for it with the death of one of the
only three people he loved. This new Peter Parker steps up for himself
every day as a part of his playground vision of a hero, and not a
single screenwriter or billion-dollar audience member seems to care.
This Spider-Man says the world should glorify you for being you, and if
that doesn't happen, it's the world that needs to change, not you. And
that is what truly terrifies me.
<|_=00=_|>
.... and, to be fair, this was not my idea but the screenwriter's,
since the last few minutes of the film reveal that this was a topic
very much on his mind when he penned this script.

OK OK, I get that the transition from comic book (graphic novel) to
feature film is not easy, but art never is, really. And it has been
done successfully. Look at Superman 2 with Chris Reeves. Look at
Spiderman 2 with Toby MaGuire. More recently look at Superman Returns
(flawed but still brilliant in parts) and even more recently than that,
Captain America 2. 

What do all these films have in common? Humanity. Hope. Decency. That
difficult blending of superpowers with those same quirks and oddities
which make us human. 

What they lack -- every film above-named lacks -- is brutality for its
own sake, gratuitous violence directed against the star (and, by
analogy, the viewing audience) just to make them feel the pain. 

Yet, astonishingly, this trend is becoming the "new normal" in
superhero films and no one seems to care, the fans just keep lapping it
up. MAN OF STEEL was an abomination, as if the intent was to see how
many office buildings you can bang to bits with Superman's head. Ditto
Thor 2, ditto The Wolverine (borders on torture porn, that one); and
finally, this "re-imagining" of Spidey where everything that can
possibly go wrong in his day ... does go wrong. Including saving his
gf.

Is this entertainment?

Seriously. C'mon folks, wake up and smell the stupid before all
superhero films end up like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an unabashed die hard fan boy for Spider-Man. There I said it. You
can call me a homer for anything Spider-Man. I wasn't a happy camper
when I heard they were rebooting the films that I fell in love with.
The first two Raimi films for me were great. The sequel still holding
up today as one of the best superhero movies of all time. The first
Amazing Spider-Man was a bit jarring for me. I walked out of the film
not knowing what I thought about it. I enjoyed Andrew Garfield's
Spider-Man but his Peter Parker didn't click with me. I also had some
nit picky things about the film as a whole (Gwen instead of Mary Jane,
lackluster villain). But watching the film a few more times I realized
that I liked it.

I do research on films that I'm excited for. This film came out weeks
earlier in the UK and Europe. And the reviews were mixed which was
sinking my high hopes. I didn't like the fact that there were three
villains (More on that later). But it seemed like they were choosing
the right actors for parts and surrounding the film in talent. After
much heart and headache reading people thoughts and reviews for me, I'm
okay with saying I liked much of this second Spider-Man film.

Andrew Garfield is Spider-Man and it seems he's embraced the part much
more this time than in the first film. His Spider-Man is having fun
being the savior of the city. He's making the quips, the jokes and the
all around energy of his Spider-Man feels directly out of the comic
book. I am finally sold on his Peter Parker. Director Marc Webb finally
lets the smart but dorky Parker shine in a few scenes that are
hilarious and engaging.

I'm still not an Emma Stone fan but she is a good counter to Garfield's
Parker. They have excellent chemistry. You can tell that these may be
Webb's favorite scenes to shoot. When they are on screen this huge
summer tent pole film because a small drama about two people with a
unique love story. 

The villains, there are three of them but not really. Let me explain.
Rhino played basically as a cameo by Paul Giamatti is really only on
screen to show Spider-Man in action at the beginning and end of the
film. His main adversaries are Jamie Foxx's Electro who starts off as a
man who is saved by Spider-Man. He then becomes a obsessed fan only to
in perfect comic book fashion have a horrible accident that grants him
superpowers. Foxx is okay, I wouldn't say he is awful. He has some good
moments and contrary to what has been written I think he only has one
cringe worthy line.

Dane DeHaan is one of if not my favorite actor working this moment. His
method style works so well in many of the films he's in and here it's
perfect. His Harry Osborn is less cartoon-y than James Franco's from
previous films. He's creepy, spoiled, arrogant but dealt with a lot of
adversity. His chemistry with Garfield feels genuine. It doesn't feel
forced like it could have been. They are long time friends who have
been distant but because of new circumstances are forced back together.

The action is fun, fast and so Spider-Man if that means anything. The
way they use his spider sense was very cool. I want to see more of
that. The small nods to the comic book are fantastic. There are nods
here and there to the upcoming sinister six film which doesn't cloud
the film. It's just there in the story that this is apart of a large
story in the future. I was trying to count the nods to the comic books.
The only issues I had with the film was Peter's search for what happen
to his father was kind of just there to fill time. Also the great Sally
Field as Aunt May got only a few scenes. She was great on screen but
mostly wasted.

Because this film is dividing fans I think I've pinpointed the problem.
I'm a fan of the comic books and this film feel like a few issues of
the comic books aka a mini-series. There are multiple stories, with
multiple villains and a lot going on. I'm okay with the finally product
and eager to see the film again. For Garfield's performance, the
chemistry with Stone and the action scenes this film is a fun ride for
any fan of the neighborhood web shooter.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie not knowing what to expect, only assuming the
commercials had been far to revealing. Anyways...safe to say that
assumption wasn't very far off. Anyways, now to speak of this in a more
revealing light.

Fascinating visuals, wonderful eye opening colors. It felt almost like
a comic book jumping onto the page. The portrayal of Peter Parker and
Gwen Stacy were amazing. Needless to say there's a connection felt
between them. However rocky it forms most of the movie though. this
isn't much of a qualm, but it was one of the more enjoyable elements.
Now, onto something a little distasteful. The villains as they were
developing had me hooked. Drawn into them (At least the ones shown
mostly,only spoiler here). One character in this is shown to be around
more in the commercials, it was more an illusion. You hope for more and
it comes up short. The villains when they fully descended failed to
keep what was making them enjoyable before the transition. 

Anyways, I hope you find this insightful. Through less of a bias side
(Love Spider-man). I'd give this movie around more of a 7, or 6.7, give
or take between them. Go see it and see what you think, it's worth the
ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget the actual story, almost everything about it, then you might
like this. This film doesn't use just some humor to amuse watchers, its
damn lot more.

I don't surely like this thing changing the original story with all
Marvel things but hey, its great entertaining very well made movie?
Little cheesy at times but I didn't got bothered. Nice directing and
cgi, actors weren't bad at all, all it was that little thing that I
would like to call something like "do not push every stuff in one
movie". Anyway it somehow worked well. First I rated this 6/10 after
seeing some low-level version, it probably had missing parts and all.
When I now watched c001 bluray-version it was totally different.

Even if you don't bare these mainstream films much like I don't, it was
excellent movie.

Ending was little weird and all but so they are all :) 8/10 Terrific
job!
<|_=00=_|>
When I watched the trailer my expectations is much higher but after I
watch the movie it didn't satisfy my all expectations. Of course it
can't satisfy everybody's all expectations at the same time. 

The film is generally very good. In the way of Electro's creation is
very good, Green Goblin could be better. Harry did very less research
about secret projects it didn't mention there it can heal the body.
Also spider venom effect Harry very fast. It start to effect Peter in a
day or less but effect Harry like 10 seconds. Also slow motions are
perfect and it happened the time it should be. Fight with Electro and
special effects were very good. It is good to see what happened to
Peter's family. Gwen's death was shocked me. I don't understand how she
die. Is her back broken or is she hit the ground before Peter catch
her. Anyway ın my opinion she shouldn't be dead in this movie maybe she
can die in next movie or in the next movie she can go somewhere else
and leave Peter. If it is go like that next movie Aunt May is going to
die. Comedy is good somewhere but somewhere it is unnecessary. Rhino's
type is little different maybe because I saw it only in Spider-Man
cartoon. End credit scene could be about next Spider-Man movie.It was
unnecessary to add a scene about X-men. 

There are minuses but the pluses is more than that I suggest anyone to
see that film and it is far better than first movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Lets give a disclaimer here: I am a comic book nerd-geek and Spider-Man
is one of my favorite fictional characters ever, so maybe I am inclined
to be fully absorbed by this movie very easily, yet this doesn't take
away from my film nerd-fan side that genuinely thought very highly of
this film from a simple filmaking point of view. As storytelling goes I
was very-pleasantly surprised to find a really strong grip: it never
commits the Spider-Man 3 mistake of being over-crowded and maintains a
brilliant balance on all the characters flowing naturally with a story
that feels perfectly fine despite the pressure it had from Sony. It
never tries to be over intricate but manages to pull of multiple
inter-twining story lines in a magnificent way. Never does it leave
loose ends and that is something I hadn't seen in a comic-book movie
for a couple of years. Furthermore it isn't a banal plot, there of
course are some clichéd moments but as much as they don't get me in 90%
of movies they got me here (credit to director/actors for making those
few feel very spontaneous), it has valid originality and keeps a core
fidelity to the source material that deserves high praise. Just as good
is the way in which this sequel builds on its predecessor tying up
loose ends, proceeding with minor story lines of the first movie and
adding great parts in it. As a director Webb proves to be amazing. The
action scenes are complexly put together, with visual brilliance and
continuity in them. Great improvement from the first movie. They really
were breathtaking, nail-biting sequences that found me on the edge of
my seat continuously. Another visual aspect that is stunning is the
swinging sequences of Spider-Man: this is what I always wanted to see
but never fully experienced with the other Spider-Man movies; the shots
there were fantastic. Yet what I most admire Webb for is the talent he
has for character development and coherence, we have seen this in his
previous two movies and here it is firing once again in all cylinders.
There just isn't one character in whom I did not believe, I never
spotted the stereotypical comic-book person in here. Everybody had
there chance to shine. Sure a couple of characters have minor
short-comings and I understand if somebody doesn't believe in Electro's
personality, but I found that it walked the line between movie
acceptability and comic-book campyness in the perfect dose. To this I
also have to give credit to the soundtrack which blew me totally away
when Electro is introduced to the public: that was some serious use of
music and sounds for storytelling, brilliant, intelligent! Adding to
this is a really powerful score from Hans Zimmer, one of the better
ones I have heard from him and generally in recent years. Our
introduction to Harry Osborn/Green Goblin was positive on the character
part (indeed there was no need for him to be green goblin in this one
but I honestly did not mind him), yet from an acting point of view I
think Dane Dehaan overacted in some scenes, nevertheless he was good
enough. There have been many criticisms of this movie in regards to
messy tone, unoriginality and rushed villains and as much as I see
where people are coming from and I would indeed have appreciated a more
untraditional villain(s) introduction and story I just never thought of
that during the movie: there are many movies in which I simply cannot
be taken in because of originality issues, but for some reason this one
felt to me so fluent I never had any problems with this and actually
felt it kept a consistent tone throughout. Yet I must address the fact
that watching it twice I could feel the studio putting too much of its
hand in the movie: they were way to manipulative of this and I think
that by leaving Marc Webb just some more creative power this movie
could have been enormously better. The CGI wasn't always seamless but
great in many moments and anyways it never bothered me because the
story was always the driving force behind it and what I was most
interested in: this also speaks to the fact that the action was used to
propel the plot so it never felt out of place, that is something really
hard to pull off. There is lots of humor in the film and I can safely
say that it actually is very funny and very faithful to who Spider-Man
is and how he acts and to expand on this the humor fits both the tone
of the movie and the storytelling, speaking again to the fact that,
just like the action, it is used appropriately for the character
development or the story, it is never gratuitous. I was excepting more
fan service, but I can't really fault the movie for not satisfying my
unsatisfiable thirst for it, that was nevertheless kept at bay. "The
Amazing Spiderman 2" truly was a comic book movie. It took the best
aspects of the two world and combined them in what I always figured in
my head when I read Spider-Man comics. Yet, I have been holding back
this for all my review and here it is: what truly is the best part of
the movie, the most riveting element, the thing that Webb does best in
a really majestical way, the driving force behind this film, the main
reason and thing that kept me most absorbed in the drama and what gives
it honest emotional depth is the relationship between Gwen Stacy and
Peter Parker. honestly do not know how Webb is so amazingly good with
romance and character interaction but what we have here (and in the
previous movie) is something really special.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high expectations for this picture due to two main reasons.
First: I really loved the first Webb's vision on Spider-Man. Second:
Many people told me good about it-- albeit some others said the
contrary. Anyways, I feel very sincere to say that it almost
corresponded to my hopes. The first hour of this film is extremely
entertaining, containing lots of action, drama and even humor, each one
in its own way. The scene in which our hero takes the pants off of a
criminal is really unexpected, reason why I instantly laughed. The
relationship between Peter Parker and Harry Osborn is just as great as
I could've expected. They play that classic game in which initially
they seem to like each other, but, in some other times, they feel like
enemies. Acting from Emma Stone is GREAT, like in the previous
installment. Director has so much faith in her that basically all the
emotive sentences come from her character-- which in fact touched me,
mainly if considering I'm about to graduate. Besides, I feel very
satisfied that a Spider-Man movie FINALLY decided to explain the issue
involving Peter's parents; I mean, for those-- like me-- who have never
read the cartoons, their situation was an absolute abyss. Also, I
enjoyed the joke involving "Jaws" and I had a spontaneous laugh in that
scene. Photography directing and special effects are beautifully
AWESOME. Other than that, I kind of agree with those who complained
about the plot, since it felt rushed for some moments, but it doesn't
the spoil the movie's overall qualities. "The Amazing Spider-Man 2",
even if not as great as the previous version, obviously, is a movie
that I respect and recommend to anyone who enjoys this superhero.
Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
Although i thought the film was great, i did feel the ending let it
down slightly. the death of Gwen ruined it for me. it made the fact of
her going to oxford in england irrelevant. they gave you false hope of
spider-man going to england and maybe continuing his adventure there.
the death of Gwen was a little to full on for my liking. following the
death of Gwen makes the next spider-man film less exciting for me.

their relationship is a huge part to the spider-man films and now thats
gone the films will never be the same. 

apart from that i thought the acting was brilliant and spider-man/peter
parker is played amazingly.
