
What went wrong? Tina and Amy were so funny together on SNL and the
Golden Globes. You would think another movie starring the both of them
would be another hit.

This was just painful. Nothing happened. It's basically a
gender-swapped Step Brothers. It's people, on the verge of 50, acting
like children. In Step Brothers, it was hilarious because it showed the
baffled reactions of everyone around the two main characters as they
acted like buffoons. In this movie, nobody seems to react to how
ridiculous these two are. In fact, everyone around them is equally
immature. All these over-the-top characters kept popping up. Maya
Rudolph plays a bitter "mean" girl, John Leguizamo plays a STD ridden
sex freak, and Bobby Moynihan plays the former class clown that nobody
thought was funny. Moynihan actually, quite barely, saves this movie
from being absolutely unbearable, because his character was basically a
walking non-sequitur (ala Brick Tamland, Ralph Wiggum).

It's just an odd set of really, unfunny jokes. That's it. Gags that
don't set up and lead to nowhere. The only shred of a story that exists
is hastily established and wrapped up within the final 20 minutes of
the movie. They just weren't thinking while making this.
<|_=00=_|>
This one is truly awful.

I'm not so sure when I've seen a movie that I disliked more. The only
reason I didn't walk out within ten minutes was because I was with two
other people. In the end, they hated it just as much as I. All of us,
BTW, work in film and publishing. We saw the film at a WGA screening in
Beverly Hills 12/27/15....

Where to begin? The characters are insipid. No one on the screen (I'm
speaking here of the characters, not the actors) whom I/we could like.
The language was self-consciously profane,meant to be funny but only
repetitively offensive. The plot, a big party that destroys a family
house, lowbrow and irrational. The more I watched these characters the
more I disliked them, their friends and their families.

There's such a thing as a "smart dumb comedy" (e.g., The Wedding
Crashers, but this was not it. 

Toward the end of the film there is a massive sinkhole on the family
property. If only this whole project had gone down there. Works like
this are the problem with the American film industry. They seek the
lowest element of audience stupidity and occasionally, as in this case,
achieve it.

To be AVOIDED! A mess!
<|_=00=_|>
Sisters is one of the worst movies I have seen in 10 years. I love big
laugh movies, especially those that lean toward just being silly, but
this movie was just one bad joke to another. I thought the cast of Tina
and Amy, plus a a few funny support people, were enough to carry it,
but I was wrong. I was ready to leave 20 minutes in.

Each time my family sees a movie we rate it on a four point scale. My
daughter, who is 18, gave Sisters 2.5 stars. My wife and I, 44 and 43,
gave it one. There is some modest humor that my teen appreciated, but
most jokes left me saying, "that was just bad." 

I am a person that goes to a movie to be entertained. Ratings don't
usually influence my decision to see a movie, especially a comedy where
I know it is going to be dumb humor. For this one, I can't help but
leave a review in an effort to save someone else a few bucks.

Save your money and rent this movie when it becomes available.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, and this is as good as they can do,
this movie is for teenage boys, young pubescent kids. What a
disappointment. I expected so much more from two comediennes, but this
is a low low. Drugs, penises, boobs, and more f- words than necessary.
Come on, comedy doesn't need to smack you in the face, again and again
and again and again. James Brolin and Dianne Weist and the young
actress playing Tina's daughter, showed just enough restraint, much
needed by everyone else, to be the only bright spots in this movie.
Raise the bar, Tina and Amy!!! They could have offered more reasons to
root for either sister, but did not. Amy and Tina, please, I know you
can do better, because I've seen you do better. Don't settle for making
the lowest common denominator laugh. Elevate your efforts
<|_=00=_|>
Another 2 hour flick!!! After sitting for 2 hours and having about a
total of 12 minutes of a few smiles and giggles, your butt is going to
be blistered with frustration.

Sisters is not a bad movie! It isn't an unfunny movie. It's a good
movie but - for me - Amy Poehler, Tina Fey just didn't pull the laughs
out of the bag as they do in skits on television. Plus it's two hours
long and all you get out of that two hours is occasional smiles &
giggles. You get tired of sitting and waiting for the big moment of
really laughing, which unfortunately never showed up. The big long
party scene becomes just that - too long - and the sight gags and
shenanigans of the 40 plus year old participants never jells into fun
for the viewer.

Sorry but this flick is just another example of Hollywood cashing in on
hot popularity. This time it's the team of Amy Poehler & Tina Fey being
offered, no doubt, a fantastic payoff to appear in a rather bloated
production of a very thin plot line of a story.

I'm sure it will be on DVD very soon!
<|_=00=_|>
This was absolutely horrible! A poor attempt at a female version of
Animal house. My wife and I are fans of theirs. We had high hopes to
see this movie, with them sharing the screen again. The first 10-20
obnoxious, disgusting, nasty references, my wife was ready to go but I
was able to sit thru. After 30 minutes of non-stop low-life,
drug-addict, perverted references...even I was ready to leave the
theater. I'm not quite sure how this movie was even allowed in
theaters...I've seen better movies, with many fewer scandalous/
salacious references banned from theaters. I'd be shocked, if this
thing is allowed to remain, once the true nature of the movie is
revealed to the monitoring agencies.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a sucker for Fey/Poehler, and this time they've managed to be as
brash and simultaneously fun as they should always have been; I mean,
they've obviously honed their craft. They play sisters who walk down
memory lane, and what keeps this from being a regular haw-haw SNL
showboat is how they keep their eyes on the prize, story-wise. It's a
complete film, lavish with jokes that not only prey upon the
remember-when-we-were-young? thing, but show-cases humor in its
simplest forms. There are not that many gimmicks, really, but mostly
humor. Things work because of the words, not the context, e.g. in
comparison with films like almost everything Adam Sandler has made. All
in all, fun and funny, they make it work.
<|_=00=_|>
Not funny, awkward at best, very shallow theme throughout, middle aged
women prancing around like kids, not convincing in their roles..
Annoyed that I wasted my evening..

I have never written a review before, but I was moved by my
disappointment. All the publicity and promotion. I expected more.

There isn't really much of a story line to critique. It fails in every
aspect. The script lacks depth, the jokes are poor, visually there is
nothing exceptional to remark on. 

Light hearted movies with poor scripts at least keep the audience
entertained with visuals (e.g attractive cast/nice
cars/art/architecture/fun parties etc). Sadly this movie also fails to
this regard...
<|_=00=_|>
The Saturday Night Live (SNL) alumni are back...well, three of them at
least. If you like the sketches from that iconic show which has
provided the movie world with comedic actors ranging from Steve Martin
to Eddie Murphy, you should enjoy this raunchy, smutty and crude
comedy. It's definitely not for everyone's tastes with jokes likely to
offend conservative viewers. Just like comedy skits from these types of
TV shows, some of the jokes succeed resulting in uproarious
laughter while others produce a mere snigger or nothing at all. At
close to two hours, the movie tends to overstay its welcome and could
have benefited from a 15-20 minute edit to eliminate the jokes that
didn't work. 

The titular sisters are Maura (Amy Poehler) and Kate (Tina Fey). Both
Ellis women are experiencing setbacks in their lives. Maura is coming
off a divorce while Kate simply refuses to grow up even though she is
the mother of a teenage daughter (Madison Davenport). They don't need
any more complications but another one arises when the Ellis' parents
(James Brolin and Dianne Weist) Skype Maura to inform her that they
intend to sell the family home. Maura's job is to entice Kate to return
home and together, they must clean out their bedroom which has remain
untouched since they moved out of home. When they discover that their
home has already been sold and their parents are now staying in a
retirement home, they plan a farewell party at their family home before
they must vacate the premises.

There's nothing subtle about this comedy here, mainly vulgarity of the
highest order. Since this viewer doesn't mind sex comedies, there
wasn't anything offensive although it's easy to see why many people
wouldn't like this movie. Dirty jokes aside, the story does have
something to say about the family unit but luckily doesn't preach to
its audience. 

Sisters occasionally feels like an extended sketch comedy show, albeit
raunchy in nature. Jason Moore is the director and his only other
directing credit is Pitch Perfect, which is tame compared to the humour
in Sisters. Paula Pell is the writer who has mainly written gags for
SNL so this is probably the main reason why it feels like sketch comedy
at times. 

It might frustrate some viewers to see some overacting from several
cast members to extend the life of a particular joke but that can
sometimes be representative of comedy sketches. When the jokes do fire,
the overstated gestures, expressions and voices actually help. Maya
Rudolph is one of the actresses who fits in this category of overacting
at times but when she pulls it off, she is absolutely hilarious. She
plays Brinda, the childhood enemy of the Ellis girls who hasn't been
invited to their party but gatecrashes it anyway. Another larger than
life character is Alex (Bobby Moynihan), the nerd who runs rampant when
he takes some drugs supplied by drug dealer, Pazuzu (John Cena). Watch
out for Greta Lee who plays Hae- Won, the Korean beauty consultant who
steals some of the laughs from her more illustrious co-stars. 

Poehler, Fey and Rudolph are the ex-cast members of SNL and they seem
to be having a riotous time, with their antics pleasing viewers who
enjoy this type of comedy. Don't take it seriously, open your mind and
go along for the ride, you're bound to experience more than a few
laughs and even more so if you're a fan of gutter humour.
http://mlaimlai2.wix.com/magical-movie-review
<|_=00=_|>
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler are two of the funniest comedians working
right now. Sisters feels like the vehicle they need to play out any
absurd fantasy they wanted to with no shortage of laughs. In that
regard, Sisters is fairly hit or miss. The chemistry between the two of
them is electric, and there are a handful of good laughs scattered
amidst the almost two-hour runtime. The problems stem from the writing
itself. I have no doubt most of the comedic scenes in the movie are
improvised, but the forced drama is what drags out the movie. It had no
reason to push the two-hour mark. An hour-and-a-half of these
shenanigans would have been perfect. By the time the party is over, it
feels like the movie could've been wrapped up in the next five minutes,
but it continues for another 20 or so minutes with no laughs
whatsoever.

The party scene itself is great, though. The entire plot is based
around this party that the sisters want to throw in their childhood
home before their parents sell it. Once all the supporting cast shows
up, including the ever-hilarious John Cena in another eccentric
tough-guy role, it becomes a riot. The scene itself takes up about half
the movie's runtime, thankfully. It's the stories surrounding it, like
the forced drama between the parents and the whole arc of the sisters
having to get their act together, that drags the film down. It's
roughly half comedy and half drama, with the comedy elements hitting
and the dramatic elements missing.

When compared to other female led comedies like Bridesmaids, Sisters
doesn't really hold up. It's not as funny, it's far too long, and the
dramatic beats don't work. But as its own vehicle for Fey and Poehler,
Sisters shows a lot of promise, and hopefully they will have a better
project together soon.
