
I never write reviews, but this time I was compelled to...

Don't bother reading the negative reviews from people moaning about how
they miss Jason Statham being chased in a car or beating the crap out
of everyone. If you want that and that only, then just go watch
Transporter I, II and III.

If you want to see something different and refreshing, then simply
don't miss this one. The story is good, there is plenty of action, and
developed characters.

With a closed mind, expecting to see yet another copy of Jason's
previous work, you'll be disappointed. But with an open mind, you will
enjoy watching this very much.

This change of plan is simply the best thing Jason has done yet. He's
convincing and manages to create quite some depth in his character. AND
he still kicks ass. I can't see another actor having pulled this
mixture of action, drama and psychology off better then Jason. He
actually played a convincing 'human being' that has to take a hit like
everyone, and he did it very well.

Amongst the better action/drama flicks of 2013.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's been quite a long time, perhaps for the first, that I was
engrossed with Jason Statham's movie, not due to the sheer number of
cracked skulls, but with his character and the ones around him.
Hummingbird is another entity compared to his usual martial arts filled
carnage, although his trademark of hurting people certainly didn't
disappear. Jason Statham as Joey Jones, takes on a deeper and more
emotional role, which with the help of director Stephen Knight,
surprisingly works well.

Agata Buzek as Cristina, a love interest role which couldn't be any
farther than Jennifer Lopez's in Parker, is an altruistic nun who cares
for Joey in his darker times. She is not the typical cinema beauty, yet
she is humbly charming. Her acting is impeccable, often giving eerily
sympathetic moments that could silence the audience. Statham benefits
from her presence as well as he gives more to acting than the majority
of his movies. That doesn't mean he will be getting awards soon, but it
is a good direction on his part.

Cinematography utilizes London cityscape in a very rustic fashion, it's
the opposite from the well-advertised side of the city. Streets and
alleyways seem more in touch with reality, nothing grandiose about
them, while prettier settings ooze some illusion of eminent cosmetic.
With sleek scene transition between them, the movie appears to be very
grounded. Story and script are great, despite having a few coincidental
twists. It's somewhat a stark contradiction from the grimy visual, a
bits of fantasy to escape the harsh prospect. Smart ways to evoke more
mature theme is appreciated and it makes Hummingbird more subtly
artistic.

Statham's character is a vigilante, a crowd-pleasing broken man whose
past never lets him go. He does this part to his best, enough to at
least differentiate him from his other tough guy role. However, people
who purchase ticket to see Statham delivers knockout punches or
staggering kick might be slightly disappointed. The action is brutal
and punishing, but there's considerably fewer scenes from what might be
expected from his type of movie, although these few are choreographed
and done well in a more street brawl kind of way. Having a genuine
martial artist couldn't hurt either.

The movie takes some time to get its rhythm, and while it's commendable
for Statham to try this new change, he's still rough in acting
department. That being said, Hummingbird is clearly superior than most
of his movies. It doesn't rely simply on muscle, but it takes the
audience to a more private look into these likable characters. I feel
that the role of Joey Jones could be played by Jeremy Renner or Tom
Cruise. If Jason Statham can continue in roles like this, he'd be
bigger than just the guys who beats people up.

Rate 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Now i'm a definite fan of Jason Statham. After reading the reviews of
this film iv'e realized that no matter what this man does he will not
please the critics. Whenever he does what he is good at(action movies),
he is just one note and doesn't do anything else. When he tries
something different like in this movie, he isn't good enough for a
dramatic role.Well I for one enjoyed this film as a welcome change of
pace as this is his most serious/dramatic role which I felt he did a
good job.

The story is dark, gritty and down to earth as many war vets suffer
psychological problems and as a result end up homeless or drug
addicts.The movie is very character driven, layered which adds some
needed depth to a Statham movie. He plays Joey Jones, a homeless war
vet traumatized by his experiences and much of the story is about his
character's experience's in the underworld of London. The movie feels
authentic, the way its shot on the dark London streets and also reading
that their was research done on Statham's part preparing for the
role.It's good to see he can do a dramatic role plus use his action
strengths and kick ass when he does.

Overall, If your expecting an all out action film maybe you should
watch Safe instead. However, if you want to see a darker, grittier film
more deep than your typical Statham film and welcome the change of
pace. I'd give it a watch and see how you like it.

Overall: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Once someone see Jason Statham's name and face on the promotional
materials, they will immediately think Hummingbird is another action
film where the star runs around the city fighting bad guys. If you came
expecting it to be like The Transporter or any typical Statham feature,
it would be either disappointing or otherwise surprising. The plot is
more of a Neo-Noir drama about a man who lives in the rotten side of
society and faces real consequences. The film is unbalanced in handling
two of its tones, but the context hits the right note in the end.
Hummingbird has a better way to tell the story but it's already a
fascinating film to watch.

The story is obviously about redemption, and as a Statham film it
should have fistfights to show his enemies who's boss. But instead his
character here troubles facing his demons and has to commit crimes to
get what he needs. It's a much interesting story about people who have
to deal with the unfair reality and beat it off with their skills. It
surely has punching but they are used for torture rather than exciting
action set pieces, though they may still remind you of a standard
action film. The film suffers of balancing between tones. Example is
the opening feels totally different from the rest of the movie. It
looks like a complete thriller until it randomly jumps to art-house
crime drama. Probably, it's a set up for the ones who came for the
action by the main actor's existence in the film, but it goes again
whenever Joey beats up someone for his job. Maybe the problem is these
scenes are not grim enough. They should have shown an uglier depiction
of violence.

The best parts are when it simply keeps the characters into their
gloomy lives. Letting everyone understand the protagonist's motivation
of being a Robin Hood. Jason Statham didn't standout much. His fighting
is still impressive, though our familiarity to his moves kind of
glosses the scenes that are supposed to be uneasy to watch, but his
natural film personality buys the character, giving awareness to the
choices he make and guilt he receives. The real talent that shines here
is Agata Buzek, who genuinely presents her character's contrasting
traits.

Hummingbird is a strange film with a classic kind of story, but it's
the sort of strange that is rarely seen in cinema today. It's sort of
hard to find the right type of audience to get appealed to this. It was
all drama, then suddenly has fighting scenes that are supposed to be
dark yet becomes the other way around. In other parts, it has an
engaging exploration of the characters' bleak little world. The
filmmaking is as magnificent as it needs and the performances are quite
gripping. It still deserves a better portrayal of its conflicts and a
set of tones that could decently fit together. In the end, it's a worth
seeing change from the genre and the main actor.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're like me, when you see Jason Statham starring in a movie you
immediately roll your eyes. You can picture the entire movie now: woman
in distress, fast cars, lots of hand-to-hand combat, and nice clothes.
I've seen nearly every Statham movie there is and they all sort of feel
the same. 

I saw him on the cover and past over this movie until finally one day
stumbling across the trailer. After watching the trailer I had to see
this movie, and boy was I wrong. This is definitely not your typical
Jason Statham movie. Yes it has a lot of the same elements but Statham
portrays a different type of character this time. Most of his movies
the acting comes after the action, but this movie is first a drama and
second an action flick. 

He's got a quiet reserve in this movie, not the cocky arrogance you
expect when you see him act. He really stole this movie from the very
beginning and by the end I actually feel like I like him again - not
since The Italian Job can I say that! 

This is a must watch for anyone. I highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
To understand why this movie is to be savoured, you need to consider
where it comes from. Action movies these days, a dime a dozen.
Hollywood (eg JJ Abrams) bangs them out like donuts on a production
line. Then you have the second tier stuff, guys like Van Damme and
Seagal, both old enough to be each other's grandfather, cranking out
films for approximately what a summer student would make pushing fries
and Big Macs between classes -- and the films show it. In this category
you also have the MMA stuff, all from directors so young they need
permission to stay up late for the night scenes. And then you have the
Indies, films that not only have no recognizable talent behind the
camera, but unknowns in front also. Included in this class you have the
Chinese and assorted Asian imports, with quality so uneven (assuming
you don't mind the dubbing) you don't know whether to laugh or cry.
Into his arena of pain -- mental pain -- comes Redemption, not only
Statham's best acting in 100 years (who knew he even could act?) but
also clearly the work of a director who understands that sometimes less
is more. Most reviews of a Statham film will list the fight scenes and
then tell you what is right or wrong about each. Not that kind of film.
A real honest to God film-film that actually engages the viewer and
moves along in a very satisfying way. Would that they were all like
that.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the underrated movies this year which was quite
magnificent to watch. I usually watch Statham's flicks for the action
and adrenaline rush but this has an element called perfect pacing. The
pros for me was the -Acting performances were better than I expected
-Great setting and Strong theme -Music was well done -and lastly the
action was well choreographed to make it seem believable. Do give this
movie a try. It's not like the previous movies Jason Statham's done
like The Transporter, Safe, Crank, But this movie just shows what Mr.
Statham is capable of when shooting in an area he is familiar with. I
don't know why the U.S. version changed the title to Redemption. I
liked Hummingbird a lot better because it has an explanation to it in
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was glad to see Jason Statham in this film. This was the perfect
opportunity for him to showcase his acting talent in a rather dark,
dramatic role than the usual action-hero roles that he's better known
for...and he made good use of it. This one is quite different from the
usual 'a guy seeking redemption' story. It is in many ways an
introspective kind of film and it does bring out some emotions and make
you feel for the characters portrayed by the lead actors (If you're
into these kinds of films, of course). If you're expecting this to be
another of his high-octane action-thrillers, you may end up
disappointed. But if you're looking forward to watch him in a more
existentialist role in a well written crime-drama with a few bits of
action in it, you'll definitely like it.
<|_=00=_|>
From watching the trailer I had my doubts about the film. It made it
appear a very boring drama with no action and little plot. The fact
that it was set in London, had quite a small budget (for a cinema
movie) of $20 million and had no other big names apart from Statham
made me think that it would be similar to Statham's film, Blitz, which
was absolutely terrible. However, when I obtained free tickets to the
premiere there was no way that I was going to turn this down and I was
pleasantly surprised by what I saw.

The film begins with flashbacks of Joey's (Jason Statham) army days
with explosions and lots of gunfire. The film then quickly moves to
night-time in London and shows Joey, now living on the streets with
some woman called Isabel, getting beaten up by a group of thugs. The
scene is bloody and brutal. However, there weren't many close-ups so if
you hadn't seen the trailer, then you wouldn't know that the tramp with
the long hair was Jason Statham. Joey then escapes and manages to get
into a rich guy's apartment. The next part of the film shows Statham's
character recovering from his wounds and exploring his new apartment
and getting drunk. This bit of the film was slightly too long and could
have been cut down a bit. At this point the film sort of splits into
several different story lines. First there's Jason getting accustomed
to living as a rich guy and dealing with terrible memories from his
time in Afghanistan, second there's the romance between Joey and Sister
Cristina, brilliantly played by Agata Buzek, third there's Statham's
character doing all these dirty jobs for the gangsters then lastly
there's Joey's quest to find out who killed Isabel and obtain revenge.
Now, I imagine that some people may not like this and I notice that the
negative reviews so far have cited this as a complaint. It's true that
there isn't really a focus on one of the story lines in particular and
we could have got more of a feel for the villain of the film, who only
appears in like 2 scenes. However, I found all these plots refreshing
and blended well to make a film, which has a little something for
everyone.

One of the main things you want to see in a Statham film is action,
particularly hand-to- hand combat. I was worried that there would be
hardly any and others must have thought the same because before the
premiere the producer said "Don't worry, Jason does get to beat up some
guys!" How wrong I was! The film actually has a lot of action; about 5
fight scenes plus a scene where Jason gets to throw someone off the
roof of a tall building. Amazing stuff! The fight scenes are as good as
any Jason's done before and one of them is perhaps the most violent,
bloody and gruesome I've ever seen in a Statham film.

If I were to describe the genre of the film I would say it was a
mixture of action, drama, comedy and romance. Some of the comedy is
very well done, e.g. when Joey buys 60 pizzas and 60 garlic breads for
the homeless, but other parts such as when Joey and Cristina visit an
Art Gallery with pictures of penises all over the walls, just doesn't
belong in a film of a mostly serious nature like this. Another
complaint I have with the film is the ending, which seemed very sudden
and a bit of an anti-climax.

There are terrific acting performances from Statham and Buzek. The
character of Joey is written in a way that it is tough for the audience
to admire/like him but Statham manages to succeed in this. Buzek makes
for a very sweet and beautiful nun. Her character also has a troubled
past.

The filming is terrific. I've seen quite a few films made in London
with very dull and plain locations but this film picks the best areas
of London and actually manages to get lots of beautiful shots of the
city. The music is pretty good but perhaps lacks variety.

I definitely recommend this film to Statham fans and to anyone who
wants to be entertained yet see serious issues dealt with as well. This
film feels very different to the typical Statham film yet will satisfy
both fans and non-fans. Steven Knight has gone as far from a typical
Statham flick as he possibly could without removing the best bits. Of
course there will be those who think that the action should be removed
completely to allow complete focus on the homeless theme but Jason
Statham is an action star. He belongs in action films and that's where
people want to see him. All in all a superb first film for Steven
Knight as director. 

My top 5 Jason Statham films as of now are:

1. Transporter 2 2. Safe 3. Transporter 4. Hummingbird 5. The Mechanic

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished watching "Redemption"/Hummingbird" and was most impressed
with this movie as entertainment,I knew nothing about it except my
favorite"Action Man"Jason Statham was in it so that was enough to gain
my interest and I was not disappointed however it was a movie not in
the usual style I expected of Jason Statham,after I got past the first
fifteen minutes started to seriously get into the story. I won't go on
with with all the details of the Plot,if you have taken the trouble to
read my review you will know that information. This is a movie for
anyone who enjoys good Drama/action with a small hint of romance and
revenge also some redemption thrown in almost at the end, there I think
I covered it all,was also impressed with Agata Buzek a new actress to
me who is now on my Radar,her character of "Cristina" the Nun was very
believable.I gave this film a seven because I enjoyed and was
entertained which is why one goes to the movies.......
