
Once the credits started rolling for Dirty Grandpa, the only thing I
could say was, "Oh my god." It was shocking. From beginning to end the
movie is shock humor, gross-out humor, crass, offensive, childish and
stupid. But you know what? I laughed a lot. I'd be lying if I said I
wasn't entertained throughout most of this movie. Sure, it follows a
lot of road trip movie tropes and the perfunctory fight/make-up
conflict near the end, but one thing about Dirty Grandpa is that it's
consistent. Dirty joke after dirty joke; some of them hit, some of them
miss, but they don't stop. Some of these things I never thought I'd
hear come out of Robert De Niro's mouth, but the fact that it's him
saying it makes it all the more funny. People will say this is a slap
in the face to his legacy, but it really isn't. The Family was. Little
Fockers was. This movie knows what it is - a lewd, politically
incorrect road trip comedy, and it succeeds in that regard.

What surprised me most about Dirty Grandpa is the chemistry between Zac
Efron and Robert De Niro. They have a great comedic rapport that
actually feels authentic, which helps the more insane scenes retain
some semblance of realism (as thin as it may be). The rest of the cast
is enjoyable too, especially Aubrey Plaza as the overtly slutty college
girl who continuously surprised me with every grotesque statement
uttered from her mouth. Oddly enough, De Niro feels right at home here.
It's as if his character from Meet the Parents went off the deep end
and decided to go on a spring break road trip with Zac Efron.
Seriously, his character is ex-special forces and everything. Efron
also proves once again that he's a comedic force to be reckoned with
playing the straight corporate man put in awkward social situations.

I don't know what people were expecting from Dirty Grandpa. Look at the
title, look at the trailers. Are you really surprised? It was marketed
as a gross-out comedy from day one, and guess what? It's gross. It's
vile; it's degrading; it's shockingly inappropriate. Is it a good
movie? Not a chance in hell. But the goal of a comedy is to make the
viewer laugh, and Dirty Grandpa made me laugh. Hard.

Now, if you don't like offensive humor, you should stay the hell away
from this. Just know what you're getting into before seeing Dirty
Grandpa and you can definitely have some fun watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually don't feel compelled writing a review, but when reading most
reviews already posted I needed to add the following: People complained
about the movie being raunchy and containing too much dirty jokes, what
else did you expect.. it literally has the word "dirty" in the title.
It is not some French romantic love story, nor is it pretending to be.
It is a funny road trip story filled with a lot of "fucks" and childish
(hilarious) jokes which if you like these kind of movies will
definitely keep you entertained until the end. And, ultimately it even
has a small underlying message to teach you.

If you are looking for something more serious, then please don't go and
then complain after, maybe try checking out something else.
<|_=00=_|>
The wife and I absolutely loved this movie and can't wait for it to
come out on bluray! Sure it has a crude sense of humor in it, but
nowadays that is pretty common.Sure it is not Deniro's type of movie
that he normally does, but I think he did a great job in playing his
part. All my friends that went to see this absolutely loved the movie
as well. Funny to me from the beginning to the end. Maybe a lot of the
older crowd went to see this and found it too offensive or something?
Not sure? I mean, it is not a movie that you want to watch with your
kids, but I highly recommend this one if you are not easily offended
and have a sense of humor like I do! Come on people! One star? Really?
This movie was great!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie isn't actually that bad; it certainly doesn't deserve the
endless line of 1-star reviews. I went to see it with very, very low
expectations, after reading a negative review of it, and ended up
enjoying quite a bit of it.

Even from the trailer you can tell this is a silly, childish comedy
with plenty of toilet and/or sexual humor. I don't know what people
came to expect from it - this certainly doesn't attempt to be anything
else besides that. Maybe many people aren't used to seeing De Niro in
such a role, but hey, he's done other silly comedies already. Not all
the jokes are that great, but it was good fun nevertheless. 

So, definitely childish, definitely silly, but also definitely funny in
my book. I even ended up feeling for De Niro's character - hey, it's
his last stand after all. So, if you don't expect much and aren't
easily offended by jokes that sometimes are a bit too silly / gross
/etc, you might even enjoy this!
<|_=00=_|>
It's a real low for De Niro and Efron and I can not in my wildest
dreams understand why this movie got green light... I can laugh at
funny sexual jokes, but this was at a level of 5 year old's. Complete
waste of money and the actor's and my time... unless the actors
actually found it funny, and in that case I must admit I am a bit
surprised and disappointed. Besides the large amount of bad jokes,
stupid, unfunny characters, an appalling backstory and completely flat
non-engaging character developments, the writing is also completely
worthless. There is nothing really wrong with the actors performances,
maybe even better that one would expect considering the material they
had to work with. Maybe they all had a good time making the movie and
getting a few laughs at work, but the result was no laughing matter, I
am sorry to say.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a big fan of DeNiro, but still the fame of the overall casting
together with the 6 IMDb ranking, convinced me that I should check this
out. Unfortunately this was the worst idea of this year. In order to
save my Saturday night I had to ran away of this after huge effort
staying for halfway through. I'm 42 and far from being a puritan, but
such movies are American cinema's decadence. Comedy is the most
difficult genre. It is easy to write and make a drama, but what is
difficult is to make a real comedy with real humor. Only English and a
bit the French are still able to do this. American comedy has become a
compilation of disgusting things including drugs and sexual fluids
innuendos and raw images that could make you throw up. I'm sorry but
seeing a 73y.o. person masturbating, even if he is the greatest actor
of all time, or innuendos of pedophilia cannot make me laugh. Even if
you can tolerate such jokes still the plot, characters and development
is as dumb and shallow as it can be. An insult to the audience and to
the cinematic art. I wish there could be negative stars to give 10.
<|_=00=_|>
'I haven't had sex in 15 years and I wanna f*ck! f*ck! f*ck! f*ck!'

'Oh, so that's what this is all about??'

Yes this is what this movie is all about, Robert De Niro's dirty
grandpa character who has just lost his wife of 40 years, is now
revealed to be a foul mouthed, booze obsessed pervert who wants to f*ck
young girls. Its up to the young, clean cut and unaware Jason (Efron)
to escort him from Georgia to his Florida retirement home. Aaand that's
your movie in a nutshell people, sound familiar? Well that's probably
because its been done a sh*tzillion times before.

I mean honesty, who thought of this? who green-lit it? The entire
concept is so cliché and dated, an old grandfather figure that turns
out to be a dirty, loud mouthed, profanity spewing perv who also just
happens to be an ex-special forces type so he can also kick ass if
needs be. This of course means you're gonna get a sequence where he
does indeed kick someone's ass much to the surprise of Jason his
grandson. Naturally of course, the fact that grandpa is an ass-
kicking, alcohol machine, means that the grandson character must be a
total goodie goodie, a real preppy nerd type because its the perfect
equal polar opposite match-up. Completely and utterly predictable,
clichéd, corny and unoriginal, the characters literally lay out the
ground plan for the plot without even having to write a single word of
dialog for them. 

And yes you've guessed it, that plot simply revolves around lots and
lots and lots of binge drinking at parties, girls in skimpy bikinis,
pool parties, beach parties, drinking, drugs, lame pranks, drinking,
sex, nudity, drinking, jail time, muscle flexing and plenty of
drinking. This is basically the modern frat boy flick minus any
originality because frat boy flicks were a staple diet back in the
80's. So this odd pairing drive off on this road trip of sorts in an
attempt to reach Florida. God knows how far they actually get because
the entire flick is taken up with the duo getting into various parties
so grandpa can try and get laid. This is against the wishes of a
shocked Jason of course but he usually ends up getting tricked or
drugged into it, then winds up enjoying it, then winds up waking up
somewhere hungover and naked...or in jail, take your pick. The whole
time Jason is also trying to hide all this outrageous behaviour from
his very sexy, yet very prudish fiancée and his conservative parents.
Anyway all I know is at one point they get to Daytona beach in Florida,
no clue how they got there or how far they still had to go, but who
cares.

Now in all honesty the casting for grandpa Dick with De Niro is pretty
good. De Niro is the obviously the perfect age and he has that perfect
persona where you're not really sure what he's actually like, he could
easily be a dark horse. To that extent De Niro does the job well, as we
know he's great at swearing and being tough, he still looks pretty
tough, and he fits the rough ex-services persona well also. For all
intense and purposes he could easily be playing yet another mobster
type in a comedy, he never really swings too far from that schtick. As
for Jason played by Efron, well to be honest the guy is too good
looking and too muscular for this part. He isn't too bad with his comic
timing and everything (surprisingly!), but when it came to sequences
like the 'flex-off' on the beach and when he's generally topless, he's
way too ripped! That's not a bad thing but I really think to get the
right comedic affect they should of cast someone without a good
physique, with bad hair, someone who's a bit geeky looking. That would
at least be a good opposite to the rest of beach/party going extras who
are generally all sexy boys and girls. The fact that Efron is way
hotter than all of them kinda makes most of the sexual innuendo gags
fall flat.

I must point out one character played by some bloke called Jason
Mantzoukas. Oh my f*cking God this guy was so f*cking annoying I could
of killed him, literally killed him. Who is this guy? Where did he come
from? Why is he being cast in movies? Is he supposed to be a funny guy?
Holy sh*tstains this guy was dreadful, completely unfunny, everything
just fell flat or totally missed the target by miles. His whole drug
obsession spiel was just so f*cking clichéd, so old, so not funny! Yeah
its so cool and amusing to do drugs or pretend to do drugs ha-ha-ha!
Jesus Christ I was giggling at sh*t like this when I was a kid back in
the mid 80's. Then you have the two corrupt cops, one male and one
female, played by whoever, I don't care. Once again, completely not
funny, not even close, just cringeworthy on every level, literally
amateurish.

Yeah so bottom line, this is a piece of sh*t, an unfunny piece of
modern day movie garbage. Not even De Niro or Efron's perfectly tanned
torso can save this, its dribble of epic proportions with not a laugh
in sight. That is of course...the thought of seeing De Niro's cock in
Efron's face sounds good to you? Or 72 year old De Niro's character
having sex with a supposed 20 something college student (Lenore) and
then having a kid together (making Efron's character the uncle to his
grandfathers newborn son and a college slut his new grandmother). Oh
and then there's the real classy dialog between grandpa Dick and
Lenore...'You're gonna tsunami on my face', 'You're gonna flood like
the Nile', Nice.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
People really need to grow!! seriously!! I have no idea what's all the
hate about. Some say it wasn't up to what they expected some say it's
downright ridiculous, I mean really???? This movie is comedy, period!
Get that in your thick skulls, not drama, not history, not a love story
but a very cute story about a boy who hardly met his grand dad but then
gets to spend the time of his life with him. in fact, he actually
becomes a man after the lessons taught by his grandpa through a series
of events. It's downright humour at it's best. I laughed my butt out
for crying out loud!

Stop throwing in ridiculous comments that make no sense and just watch
the movie for the way it is. Hilarious, cute, heart warming and just
memorable. I will be buying a DVD to save a copy! 10/10 without a
shadow of doubt!
<|_=00=_|>
Michael "Beyond the Poseidon Adventure" Caine has never been averse to
starring in more than his fair share of turkeys. Talking about "Jaws:
The Revenge" he once said "I have never seen it, but by all accounts it
is terrible. However, I have seen the house that it built, and it is
terrific!" One can only assume that Robert De Niro has a similar
attitude for getting involved in this dross.

For that is what it is. Directed by Dan Mazar ("I Give It A Year"), its
a desperate attempt at a Spring Break-style ribald comedy that misses
at virtually every level.

De Niro plays Dick (an appropriate name) who after a lifetime of
marriage and on the day after his wife's funeral asks his grandson
Jason (Zac Efron) to join him on a road-trip to Florida, with the
singular aim of getting laid by a fresher a quarter his age. (You can
already tell that this is all in the best possible taste). Jason - an
accountant - is due to be married in the following week to the prissy
and controlling Meredith (Julianne Hough), against Dick's wishes.
Needless to say with this paper-thin plot, (and given that America is
obviously such a small place) he runs into an old (and naturally sexy
and gorgeous) school friend Shadia (Zoey Deutch). With Dick applying a
'certain set of skills' from his previous work (hasn't this plot been
worked before in a De Niro comedy?) he wreaks maximum havoc in Daytona
Beach in trying to lead Jason astray. Will he succumb and find true
love rather than fall into a marriage of boring expectation.

What's there to like in this film? Well, there is some almost amusing
sexual banter between de Niro and the nympho-like Lenore (Aubrey Plaza,
and probably the best thing in the film). The great Danny Glover has a
short cameo. The music used is well chosen(although the music editing
seems extraordinarily inept). And if you are female (or male but gay)
then the extended scenes of Efron's almost naked body might do
something for you.

But on the flip side, there are few groups that this film won't manage
to offend. About 75% of the script is the F-word. It portrays extensive
and casual hard-drug use. The film is offensive to gay people.
Offensive to deaf people. Offensive to cancer patients. Offensive to
black people. And deeply offensive to lovers of cinema.

I have used enough words on this trash. Those UK readers who are old
enough to remember the older style of film classification will remember
that there was an 'A' rating. I would bring it back for this film, the
'A' standing for "Avoid". In fact, it was so offensive, the rating
should be 'AA' for "Absolutely Avoid".

I have a monthly cinema card, so I got to see this film for 'free'. I
was significantly overcharged.

(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this
review. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Kelly (Zac Efron) is a straight-laced corporate lawyer engaged to
Meredith Goldstein (Julianne Hough). He attends his grandmother's
funeral and gives his foul-mouthed, wild, estranged, Army-veteran
grandfather Dick (Robert De Niro) a ride to Boca Raton, Florida. They
encounter Shadia (Zoey Deutch), gay Bradley, and Lenore (Aubrey Plaza)
at a road side diner. Lenore needs Dick as a professor to complete her
sexual trifecta. Jason recognizes Shadia from his photography class.
Dick is on the prowl and Jason is horrified.

Robert De Niro as Andrew Dice Clay may be a funny idea on the page. It
doesn't come off as funny on the screen. It is a simple exercise in
against-type casting but that's not enough to be funny. I try to
imagine another actor in De Niro's role and it's still not funny. I can
see some improvements but De Niro's persona is not the only problem.
This type of movies needs heart. This one has none and suffers for it.
The movie probably knows the problem since it keeps bringing up
grandma. It's the same note over and over again. There is no likability
in any of the relationships. The inappropriate humor has limited fun
but I don't care about any of these characters.
