
Before I begin reviewing the movie, I just want to say first that if
you haven't seen the original or didn't even know that there was an
original, you might not enjoy this movie as much as someone who
respects it's classic status in black cinema. I actually thought that
this movie was going to be terrible. I kept telling my roommate and
best friend that I'm not excited and might just watch it on bootleg and
if I do go to see it it will only be for the late and legendary Whitney
Houston. But thankfully I was invited on a date, so I was relieved that
I didn't have to pay for this terrible, terrible film. But to my
surprise, I enjoyed it from beginning to end.

As an upcoming writer and film school graduate, there are things about
this film that I can truly appreciate more than the average movie goer,
like the costumes, the set design, the hair, the locations, and most
definitely the script. It was solid. For this to be Mara Brock Akil and
her husband's very first feature film together, the script was very
well written. It had a lot of memorable one liners and great comebacks.
Also, the writer put a few spins on the story that worked very well as
an adaption.

Jordin Sparks did very well as Sparkle. I don't think the character was
a stretch for her because she's sweet and shy in real life but for this
to be her first film she did great. Mike Epps as Satin was a surprise
to me. He's usually the smart mouthed side kick in stereotypical black
films but his personality played well with his character. Derek Luke
was solid and Tika Sumpter was awesome. In the original, Sumpter's
character didn't really have much of a story but I appreciated the fact
that the writer's gave her a backstory. Whitney Houston did phenomenal
as the mother. Her vibrant personality is totally opposite of the
film's character who was depressed, unhappy and sort of narrow minded.
But the star of the evening was definitely Carmen Ejogo as Sparkle's
older and sexy sister, Sister. She stole the show. I had never heard of
her until this movie but she was awesome. While the acting wasn't Oscar
worthy everybody did a solid job.

The original definitely had its flaws. There were holes in the story
and unanswered question but I feel as all movies back in the day were
still finding their proper structure. But this adaption definitely left
me satisfied. There was more character development, more backstory and
since the the movie is about family the bond between all three sisters
s what made me love this movie even more. You can tell that they all
loved each other and would had each other's backs no matter what.

I'm happy that the original music was in this film along with new ones.
The vocals were good but of course Whitney Houston dominated in that
department being that she is one of the greatest voices to ever walk
this Earth.

Overall, Sparkle was a solid movie. Very enjoyable family film. I have
a feeling that a lot of people are gonna love this movie, a lot of
people are think it's okay and a lot of people are going to hate it.
But these types of movies aren't meant for everyone's enjoyment, only
those who understand and appreciate this type of story. I recommend it
for all who know the original, all who love good music and all who love
Whitney.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great, fun, enjoyable movie. It has everything: great lines
and killer comebacks, wit, excitement, suspense, drama, charged
emotions, great acting, a good story, beautiful cinematography, and of
course, the music rocks. It is way, way, way better than the original.
let me say that again in caps: IT IS WAY, WAY, WAY BETTER THAN THE
ORIGINAL. I was actually surprised it was so good, given the reviews. I
really did not want the movie to end. Afterwards, I found myself
wondering what the sisters would be doing 3 years later, and it's been
a long, long time since I've cared enough about any movie character to
think about them even 5 minutes after the movie. Sparkle delivers on
every level: script, cinematography, realism, acting, and singing.

On the acting front, Whitney Houston delivered a powerful, raw and
completely revealing performance. She was Emma. Her figure, bearing,
and presence are completely transformed from "legend," "Whitney
Houston," to a bruised and weary woman who is determined that her
babies will not lose their way as she did, and who is fighting with
every ounce of her being for their futures. When you know how funny and
filled with energy Houston could be, then you see her as this
world-weary mother, fighting for her kids, you see how great an acting
job she does. She fills the role completely. Her song, His Eye Is On
The Sparrow, is the showstopper and anchors the movie perfectly. I
cannot think of any singing/song scene in any movie that comes close to
what Houston does here. This performance alone is more than worth the
price of admission.

Mike Epps is another standout as Satin: he delivers a memorable, slick,
cool, and lethal performance. All of the sisters are excellent! Tika
Sumpter was really great, as was Carmen Ejogo, and though Jordin
Sparks' character is the quiet sister, she works the role and is
believable. There are no weak performances on the screen. And, it goes
without saying that the music works perfectly. The three sisters are
really smokin' hot on the stage, with Carmen Ejogo oozing sensuous
sex-appeal.

Yes, this is a remake, and yes, its a popular theme, but just like
fairy-tales that we enjoy listening to and telling over an over, you
want to hear this story retold because it is so well done. There are
strong male rolls, and lots of testosterone-driven tensions, and, of
course, strong female roles. So, this movie works as a good date night
movie, a good movie to see with friends, and as a good movie to see on
your own.

This is not The Godfather and it's not Shakespeare, but it is a well
done, enjoyable, emotionally satisfying movie. I highly recommend it.
Thumbs way up!
<|_=00=_|>
Was not hyped about new "Sparkle" and didn't really want to see but we
did this am. Glad we only paid $6.00, not worth much more. Film wasn't
able to capture original's essence; the important cautionary tale of
stardom. Houston purchased rights to script in late 90s and was going
to make it a Aaliyah vehicle. This would have worked perfectly as
Aaliyah had a strong acting talent; Jordin Sparks can't act nor does
she have any 'star quality', certainly not enough to carry this film.
Film was in preproduction when Aaliyah died so it was placed on hold.

Main problem is the writing. In trying to update script, writers mover
location from Harlem to Detroit and time from late 50s to 1968. Fine;
writing however was lacking big-time. I think they wanted to capture
"Sparkle" with a touch of "The Five Heartbeats" and they failed. Dialog
was dry, boring, and over done. Not surprising as the production team
is the creators of The Game. "Sparkle"/"Five Heartbeats" made you care
about the characters, not here. Add to bad writing, bad editing; it was
more like a music video and you never felt like it was 1968 since all
the costumes weren't authentic and looked like they were merely retro
copies. The camera angles used were so slick that it came off as
overdone. I think they forgot that in 1968 we weren't wireless. We
needed Mic's, amps, and full bands, not synthesizers and computers.
Most of the performances were displayed without any equipment. I guess
film makers don't understand less is more. They also tweaked the most
important and crucial element of the story (ie Sister's OD) which
completely made the ending unbelievable and you felt like the lesson of
the story was lost and never learned. It was strange watching one other
thing about the film; the removal of it's black culture. The writers
mention the race riots 2x in film but depict Detroit as being
beautifully multicultural. All scenes have a nice balance of
multi-ethnicities intermixing and socializing w/each other. It was like
watching the Houston "Cinderella". The mixed cultures used there was
intentional to remove the idea of race, but here it sticks out
especially since one of the original story lines was about the civil
rights movement. The writers only touched on this briefly and
simultaneously on the dysfunctional family element during one scene. It
was very sad to see and completely unrealistic of the time period.

Next of course is casting. I love artists who are 'triple' threats but
they must be masters in all the elements of entertainment. I'm not a
big fan of hiring singers to act and this film displays why. Sparks was
exceptionally weak as Sparkle. First and foremost this is a black story
about a black family. Like Carra and McKee, Sparks is mixed but where
the aforementioned women are decidedly "women of color" (culturally) ,
Sparks is obviously more "white". I am not referring to her appearance
but to her manner. Anyone who knows Lonette McKee knows exactly what I
am talking about. Sparks tone of speech, delivery of lines, and lack of
a natural rhythm stuck out b/c of this difference. Surprisingly Houston
actually delivered the strongest of the women. God rest her soul,
Houston wasn't always thought the best actress but she came out well
here. Her acting was it's strongest since "Bodyguard" maybe b/c was
telling her own story about the trappings of success. It's very obvious
the production was expanded to showcase her scenes a/f her death. Her
only song is in it's entirely w/o any edits. Supporting cast (the men)
is stronger which helps the ladies but since the writing isn't there,
it's all for moot.

Music- Where to begin? R. Kelly, sorry you are not Curtis Mayfield.
Film is set in Motown 68, music shouldn't like 2012. Closing tracks,
"One Wing" and "Love Will" sound way too much like today. Kelly needs
some more throwback if he's really going to take this to Broadway. His
arrangement of "Something He Can Feel" was nothing more than an EnVogue
cover. I was left wondering if he's heard Aretha's original
masterpiece.

All I can say don't go expecting have the same sentimental feeling for
the original, you won't. I was hoping this would be so good that I
wouldn't compare it to the original. Instead, I sat through this film
wishing I were home watching my DVD of the original. Ulimately this
film focuses too much on appearance and not enough on substance, much
like our society today. It lacks the serious heart and empathy of it's
predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this film!!! Jordin Sparks carried her own in the
movie and when she sings "One Wing" is her ultimate shining moment in
"Sparkle". Mike Epps as "Satin" is the best role of his career and
kudos to the casting agent for giving him a chance w/ this role. I pray
he receives a Oscar nomination.Carmen Ejogo as "Sister" was
mesmerizing,radiant&stunning..A STAR IS BORN!!!! she also deserves a
Oscar nomination..she was brilliant.Whitney Houston this woman can do
no wrong.what an amazing woman!!.I LOVED her in this film,she played
the role with such incredible poise & control..she was excellent!!! her
scene singing "His Eyes Are On The Sparrow" was a tearjerker for sure
everyone in the audience was crying and cheering at the same time.truly
my favorite scene in the film!!!! I give this movie a solid A
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about this movie besides the fact that it was the best
that I have seen in a long time. Along with everyone else in my theater
we all enjoyed the movie!Everyone did a fantastic job but the real
screen stealers are Jordan,Tika, Mike, and of course Whitney! The only
reason I seen this movie at first was for Whitney but after watching it
I fell in love with it.You will be surprised in some scenes, some might
make you want to cry, cheer the characters on , and the singing OMG is
awesome. The movie might feel like it is starting off slow for some but
after a few minutes the atmosphere changes and it's really enjoyable.
It's just a great movie and Whitney definitely Sparkles in her last
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Pop star Jordin Sparks stars alongside Whitney Houston (in her final
performance of what was supposed to be the second wind of her acting
career) in Sparkle, a remake of the 1976 cult hit among black
audiences. Conversely, the 2012 version, centred around a trio of
sisters who hit the big time in 1960s Motown before being crippled by
the lures of fame, is entirely devoid of any personality or soul,
playing out like every other African-American themed shambles this side
of Tyler Perry's repeated disasters.

Director Salim Akil (an apparent prodigy of Perry's stylings) breaths
plastic life into the cardboard cut-outs he calls characters. Almost
every stereotype conceivable in the dram-rom genre is on full display,
including the preachy reverend, the tough girl, the abusive husband,
the heavy-handed mother and her introverted daughter. 

The performances across the board are sound, but a practically
non-existent screenplay renders any interaction between characters
essentially worthless. Even at a touch under two hours, Sparkle
severely overstays its welcome. Given the similar plot frame and
emphasis on glitz-and-glamour music, comparisons to Aussie
crowd-pleaser The Sapphires are to be expected, but where the local
production made its intentions clear from the outset, Sparkle rambles
and labours, pleading with its audiences to maintain an unwarranted
sliver of attention in the lead up to a drab and bitterly predictable
conclusion. 

*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So
drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you
thought of my review. If you're looking for a writer for your movie
website or other publication, I'd also love to hear from you.*
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I liked this version of Sparkle better than the
original and I am definitely glad that they changed the story up a bit.
This film is very predictable, but I did not care. I think that the
cast that was assembled for this film did an excellent job. I have to
admit that my main reason for going to see this film was because I
wanted to see Whitney Houston in her swan song performance. Whitney
(Emma) did an outstanding job in this film and I have to admit that
when she sang I got a little (okay, a lot) choked up. Not just because
she was singing but because I realized how much I missed her. Jordan
Sparks (Sparkle) was made for this role. With this being her film
debut, I am sure that we will be seeing a lot more of Jordan on screen.
Carmen Ejogo (Sister) almost stole the show along with Mike Epps
(Satin). Both were captivating and although you knew from the start
where this relationship was heading, it did not matter because you
wanted to see it play out. When Michael Beach (Rev. Bryce) hit the
screen, I was looking at him and I knew that I had seen him on screen
before, but I just could not place him. Whoever did his make-up did a
darn good job. Tika Sumpter (Dolores) has come a long way since her
days on the television soap One Life to Live. She is the "grounded"
sister of the bunch and demonstrates that by having clear goals set and
a strong sense of self. Derek Luke (Stix) is the group's manager and
Sparkle's love interest who is just trying to do the right thing. I do
have to say that there were some faux pas in the film. There were times
that the group was singing without mikes and the half-naked dress would
have never been acceptable during that time (I don't think). By the
way, there was a women sitting in my row that was singing along with
all the songs that she remembered (I was cracking up). Do I think that
this will be the film of the year? No, but I do think that Director
Salim Akil did a good enough job to warrant the price of a ticket. One
last thing, I also got choked up again when Jordan sang at the
conclusion of the film. I will be downloading that one. I give this
film green light.
<|_=00=_|>
I get skeptic on watching movies that revolve around singing groups in
the 50s-80s because I feel like they are all the same. However, I
absolutely enjoyed and would love to see this movie again. Let me just
say Carmen Ejogo is an absolutely AMAZING actress. She practically had
me in tears throughout the whole movie because she betrayed her
character so well! Im not familiar with Carmens work but she sold it.
Shes stunningly beautiful, and I cant wait to see her in other upcoming
films. Jordan Sparks off course is an amazing singer, and for being her
first film she did a good job. I think with time shell be better
actress. I think this movie was a great last goodbye for Whitney
Houston. Im glad I was able to hear her sing one last time. (: This is
definitely a must see, and I will for surely be recommending this movie
to everyone I see.
<|_=00=_|>
There's an indisputable star of this synthetically watchable 2012
melodrama, and it's neither the late Whitney Houston in her last role
nor Season 6 "American Idol" winner Jordin Sparks. It's relatively
unknown British actress Carmen Ejogo (Maya Rudolph's sister in "Away We
Go") who explodes off the screen in the meaty, scene-stealing role of
Sister, the hell-raising eldest of a trio of daughters to Emma
Anderson, an uptight, church-going woman who raised them on her own.
Emma is Houston's supporting role, and while she proves she had the
makings of a solid character actress, there is an unfortunate shroud of
irony in her presence given her own tragic, tabloid-saturated life was
itself a cautionary tale about the lure of drugs in show business. This
time in the part Lonette McKee played superbly in the 1976 original,
Ejogo inhabits the character living out the nightmare of drug addiction
and spousal abuse.

The rest of the movie is mostly by the numbers. It opens in 1968, a
decade later than the original movie's story, with Sister and her
little sister Sparkle sneaking out to a nightclub headlined by a
period- costumed Cee Lo Green in a cameo appearance. Sister vamps her
way through an original song by Sparkle, which attracts the attention
of an aspiring record producer named Stix. He encourages them to shoot
for the big time, so they convince level-headed sister Dee to make it a
trio decked out sequins, wigs and false eyelashes in order to become
the next Supremes. What struck me is how eerily the three women look
like the original Supremes line-up with Sparks resembling Florence
Ballard and Ejogo looking like a sultry cross between Diana Ross and
Beyoncé. Of course, their newfound success comes with heartache, as
Sister takes up with a smooth albeit vicious stand-up comic named
Satin, and Sparkle struggles between family devotion and her burgeoning
love for Stix.

Naturally Emma is constantly worried that her girls will repeat the
same mistakes she made when she tried to make it as a singer only to be
spit out by the music industry. That means Houston spends most of her
limited screen time either fretting about her family or being
self-righteous about her religious convictions. The dinner table scene
between her and Ejogo is the movie's best scene laying bare the
deep-seeded resentment Sister has for her mother and providing a flash
of grief over a line that reminds you how Houston died. The melodrama
is laid on pretty thick, especially during Sister's downward spiral,
but director Salim Akil ("Jumping the Broom") and his wife,
screenwriter Mara Brock Akil, balance it with just enough lighter
moments. The songs, of course, are what matters the most, and smartly,
Curtis Mayfield's original compositions have been retained with the
standouts being "Hooked on Your Love", "Look into Your Heart" and
especially "Something He Can Feel" which Ejogo performs with sultry
conviction.

The new songs by R. Kelly are not nearly as memorable since they sound
too contemporary for the period. Sadly, Houston sings only once in
character, the spiritual stand-by, "His Eye Is on the Sparrow", and
limited to her lower register, her coarsened voice, while emotionally
impactful, is vocally a mere shadow of her once-beautiful pipes. Sparks
gets to sing a lot more with a predictably booming voice, and she
delivers an unaffected turn in the title role. Mike Epps gives a strong
performance as Satin, and his scenes with Ejogo echo similarly volatile
scenes in "What's Love Got to Do with It?" As Stix, Derek Luke does
much better work than Philip-Michael Thomas in the original. Tika
Sumpter provides some memorably defiant moments as Dee, the one sister
who could take or leave the music. The movie runs too long at 116
minutes, but between Houston's death and Ejogo's star-making turn, it
takes on a greater depth than the musical nostalgic trip it was
originally designed to be.
<|_=00=_|>
Sparkle (2012)

** 1/2 (out of 4)

Remake of the 1976 film about sisters Sparkle (Jordin Sparks), Sister
(Carmen Ejogo) and Dolores (Tika Sumpter) who decide to try and make it
in the music business even though their mother (Whitney Houston)
objects to them doing so after her life was ruined by an attempt. The
original movie was quite predictable but it was still very much worth
watching because of the performances and the music. I'm really not sure
why we needed a remake and especially since this one here takes place
in the 1960s just like the previous ones. Either way, for the most part
this is a mildly entertaining film but there's still no question that
it falls short of the original. There are actually quite a few things
that do work here including the performances but especially Ejogo as
the troubled sister whose decisions are going to cost her and her
sisters. I thought she was incredibly believable throughout the picture
no matter what the story was calling for. It could be for sexiness in
the music or the downfall of the drug addiction. This here was actually
the first time I had seen Sparks in anything and I thought she was fine
in the role, although, like the original, her character is pretty much
in the background. As for Houston, she's not too bad in the film but I
must admit that I think her death somewhat hurt the movie, which is
strange to say because I doubt anyone would have gone to this had it
not been her final film. Hearing her character talk about drug abuse,
bad choices and other things just makes you think of Houston and her
death. This really has a negative impact on the film that it might not
have had if the actress didn't die during the post-production. Derek
Luke, Mike Epps and Curtis Armstrong are all extremely good in their
parts. Another negative thing is that the majority of the music is
pretty forgettable with none of the songs really jumping out at you.
This includes Houston's one number, which is just pretty weak. Still,
SPARKLE manages to have enough in it to make it worth sitting through
even if the end result isn't nearly as good as most would have hoped
for.
