
Alexander Payne is one director who marches to the beat of his own
drummer - films in Nebraska, uses black and white, and casts some parts
locally to get the correct flavor. He doesn't miss a note.

Nebraska is the story of a family of usual dysfunctionals living where
else but Nebraska - a quiet, distant father with a little dementia,
Woody (Bruce Dern), his two sons, David and Ross (Will Forte and Bob
Odenkirk), and their perpetually complaining mother Kate (June Squibb).
David sells home electronics and just broke up with his girlfriend;
Ross works for a news station and recently replaced the "talent" up
front.

The current major problem is that Woody has received something akin to
a Publisher's Clearing House certificate telling him he's won a million
dollars. All he has to do is buy these magazines and check if the
numbers are his. All Woody sees is that he won a million dollars. No
one will take him to Lincoln to claim his prize so he starts walking -
more than once - until David says he will take him.

On the way, they stop by his parents' home town and drop in on Woody's
brother and his family - a scary bunch. Kate takes a bus in and shows
David around the cemetery in a scene you'll never forget, trust me.
Woody runs into his old partner, Ed (Stacy Keach), and as word spreads
that Woody is going to be a millionaire, everybody wants a piece of
him, including Ed, who says Woody owes him quite a bit.

This is really a character-driven film, with some of the most vibrant,
fleshed-out characters ever on screen and some of the starkest
landscapes, filmed in black and white, and giving the viewer the
feeling of what it's like to live among miles and miles of farmland
interspersed with small towns.

Bruce Dern gives an Oscar-worthy performance as a lifelong alcoholic
who has escaped inside himself, a man out of touch and seemingly
untouched by any events around him. As the outspoken Kate, June Squibb
is absolutely hilarious - always yelling at Woody, threatening to put
him in a home, complaining about him, but just don't let anybody take
advantage of him, or you'll have to deal with her.

The sons mirror their parents, with David quiet and thoughtful but
trying to bond with his father, and Ross, more confident and less
sympathetic.

In learning about his father's background, in talking with his old
girlfriend (Angela McEwan) David begins to see the man that his father
once was and what shaped him. And he finds out that love is sometimes
an unspoken thing, but it's there all the same.

A wonderful film, powerful in its simplicity. Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nebraska" offers viewers an unstinting view of some very unpleasant
things: extreme decrepitude, boundless stupidity, greed and ignorance.
There is also very deep, and very painful, love on display in this
portrait of an embittered working class eking out a meaningless
existence in a dysfunctional and remote place. "Nebraska" oscillates
between cynicism and schmaltz, pulling off a wondrous kind of emotional
alchemy that few films aspire to, let alone attain.

All of the acting is first rate, though the characterizations are
rather broadly drawn. Will Forte plays a dutiful, sensitive, repressed
son with seemingly unlimited patience for the eccentricities of those
around him. He's the perfect foil for Bruce Dern's semi-catatonic,
alcoholic ramblings (both verbal and spatial). June Squibb serves up
hilarious venom to spice up the mix.

There were scenes in the movie that so perfectly captured the narrow,
soulless, deadening ethos so prevalent in small-town America that I
could hardly stand to watch them. It was almost as if the tire stores,
bars, gas stations and motels of every desolate corner of America were
rolled up into one set of visuals here, captured in stunning black and
white cinematography.

I highly recommend "Nebraska."
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce Dern gives the performance of his life. He is wonderful. He
maintains the quality of tuning in and out of reality throughout the
film. Typical of someone with dementia, you are never really sure if
he's there or not. There is a moment in the film when he drives and you
can just see him glow and come alive.

This is not a film for everyone because it moves slow, but true movie
buffs will love it. 

Filmed in black and white and bleak (if that were a color) it's a son
that takes his father on a road trip

It's quietly poignant, with a lot of very funny moments in it. When the
mother is in the scene, she steals every one.

The cousins are a riot and the family members are a cast of characters.
This is the sort of film that you leave but doesn't leave you.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie at the Helsinki International Film Festival. It tells a
story about an old man who is certain that he has won a million dollars
and wants to get to Nebraska to collect it. His family is sure that it
is a hoax but his son chooses to drive him there so that the thing
wouldn't bother his dad anymore. 

Everything about the movie is very low key and the pacing is quite
slow. This comes from the choice of shooting it in black and white,
style of acting, and the locations and events depicted in the film. For
long periods, I found it a little hard to get immersed into the events
on the screen and empathize with the characters. I kept thinking that
the movie repeats what I did not like about Alexander Payne's earlier
work About Schmidt. But then somehow the movie started to grow on me. I
still feel there is almost weird resemblance to the road trip and
family reunion Jack Nicholson's character goes through in About Schmidt
but Nebraska has merits of its own. For one, the characters are quite
well written. Even the supporting roles provide witty observations of
different ways we might react to other person's fortune. Also, the
acting is very good throughout the film. The main characters' lives
have become unsatisfying and they are trying to deal with it in
different ways. Even though it is a little frustrating to watch people
who struggle to find anything meaningful to do or say, the script and
the actors are able to draw a very accurate picture of everyday life as
it sometimes can be. Here and there, they are able to provide a few
laughs and even some satisfaction when the characters are developing,
albeit slowly.

Overall, I'd end up recommending the film if you have enjoyed Alexander
Payne's previous work.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Alexander Payne is currently one of the best dramatists in
cinema right now simply because he makes films about realistic people
in realistic situations. Payne seems to see no value in fantasy
elements, far-fetched circumstances, or overly-comedic nonsense. His
accomplished filmography includes the uproariously funny and poignant
Sideways, The Descendants, which I went on to name my favorite film of
2012, the bold satire Election, the humble and depressing About
Schmidt, and the daring abortion comedy-drama Citizen Ruth.

Now with Nebraska he adds another incredible film to his filmography.
Heavy on the drama, smart with its character depictions, but never
schmaltzy nor self-satisfying, Nebraska paints a bleak and depressing
portrait of Midwestern life centering on a broken family with little to
live for. One day, however, Woody Grant (Bruce Dern in a career-making
performance) finds something to live for. Senile, an alcoholic in
denial, and not one for long conversations, Woody receives a letter in
the mail telling him he won a $1,000,000 prize and should come to
Lincoln, Nebraska to collect it. His son, the quietly-sad David (Will
Forte), informs him that the letter is a shameless piece of scam mail
that requires the subscription to multiple magazines to even qualify
for a raffle to potentially win the jackpot.

Woody doesn't care. He believes that people or an organization wouldn't
say something that wasn't one-hundred percent true. Residing in
Billings, Montana, Woody abandons his long-suffering, brutally honest
wife (June Squibb) numerous times by aimlessly walking (sometimes
trudging) down interstate highways and side-streets to venture out to
Lincoln to collect his supposed earnings. At first, David can't fathom
his father's logic. He has informed him several times this is a
hopeless scam, that he is in no condition to travel long distances (he
can't drive), and he doesn't even need $1 million to begin with. Woody,
stubborn as a mule (or is he?), offers very little reasoning for his
actions. He simply does what he wants. But when people in Woody's
hometown get wind of this, along with distant family members that maybe
should've remained distant, Woody now owes everyone money and a favor.

Director Alexander Payne and writer Bob Nelson work wonderfully with
Nebraska, especially Nelson, who is sure to paint the characters as
realistic as they are relatable to the audiences. Consider Woody's
rather large family, made up of codgers who speak in disjointed
sentences and delightfully funny souls who like to complain every
chance they get. One of these people in particular is Woody's wife
Kate, portrayed by a fearless June Squibb where almost everything she
says is a laugh riot. A key scene comes when Woody, Kate, and David are
visiting the gravesites of Woody's family members and for every person
buried six feet under, Kate has a smarmy remark for them.

It's all the more surprising to note that Will Forte, usually known for
playing characters in goofball comedies, does tremendous work in a
serious, darkly funny, but also depressing drama film. Forte embodies
an everyman quality that will make him familiar to some, and the way he
tries to live in the boundaries of reality while giving his father
something to live for is easily relatable to someone who wants the best
for their own parents. However, the performance of the two hours is
easily given by Bruce Dern, who has the rare ability to play detached
and clueless with a true sense of believability. I can only think of
Paul Dano's requirements for his character in Prisoners, released about
two months back, where Dano had to always bear a facial expression that
rendered him dazed and almost entirely out of touch with reality. Dern
uses the effect to true emotional heights in Nebraska, with the uncanny
ability to sit with a blank stare on his face and look as if he's about
to burst into tears.

That precise quality of Nebraska is why I was so drawn in (along with
the excellent black and white photography); its lack of milking its
story for emotions. It has the very ingredients to make a person cry
from the senile father who never really was one to his children, the
broken family, and the unremarkable rural life that seemingly offers no
hope outside of a desolate landscape. However, just like Woody, the
film looks on the brighter side of life, optimistic about the peculiar
instances and finding solace in a practical adventure. It doesn't have
time to waste on sappy musical cues and actors phoning in emotion; it's
much too concerned for articulating the characters and the adventure at
hand.

It's also wonderful to see Will Forte in a pleasantly different role,
alongside his frequent collaborator and friend Bob Odenkirk as siblings
in Nebraska. The last time Forte and Odenkirk teamed up, if I recall
correctly, The Brothers Solomon happened and such a film doesn't even
deserve a mention in this review.

Starring: Bruce Dern, Will Forte, June Squibb, Bob Odenkirk, and Stacy
Keach. Directed by: Alexander Payne.
<|_=00=_|>
My favorite comedy is sideways (among others) and I love Mr Paynes
films (like Election. As an advanced senior I was totally with Bruce
Dern, the crankiness, the lack of balance, the drinking the boredom.
the many naps. WIll Forte is absolutely superb as a kind loving son, in
every way. His patience his help on the many scrapes his dad gets into
and his true love. He is a cinch for an Oscar nomination. So are Dern
and the actor who plays his wife. Although the film is outright funny,
the sensitivity which Payne shows in handling the actors and the
bleakness of Nebraska. The people of the small towns are portrayed is
as close to real people as you can get. The black and white added to
the story, especially the portrayal of the cities and small farms. I
think this film will be loved by seniors. Younger people, after they
have see Hunger Games could learn a lot from the lives of their
grand-parents. A magnificent film, go see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL: There is a magical and profound power that is
exuded from Alexander Payne's film "Nebraska." I loved just about every
second of it. Written by Bob Nelson, the black-and-white dramedy takes
us through the beautiful and rural Midwest showcasing opulent and
lavish cinematography by Phedon Papamichael. And let's not forget the
trio of stunning performances from Oscar-nominee Bruce Dern, Will
Forte, and June Squibb. The film tells the story of an aging and ailing
Woody (Dern) and his son David (Forte) as they venture off from Montana
to Nebraska to collect a million dollar prize that Woody believes he
has won.

I've long thought that Alexander Payne was one of the more overrated
writer/directors working today. Winning two Oscars for screenplay, only
one of them was warranted. I merely enjoyed his film "Election" over
ten years ago, couldn't find the emotional connection in "About
Schmidt" and found myself perplexed by the love that poured in for "The
Descendants." His Oscar-winning film "Sideways" was the only film that
lived up to the promise and still retains its magic on repeated
viewings. The Paramount Vantage film presents an impeccable example of
Payne's directorial skills and style when they're utilized with the
right material. "Nebraska" is Alexander Payne's best film, bar none. He
creates an intimate setting, even when driving cross-country or walking
around an abandoned home, Payne keeps the story close and the responses
authentic.

Bruce Dern is perfectly used and exquisitely raw presenting the actor's
best outing of his career. As the co-anchor of the story, Dern is
finally given a chance to show what Hollywood has been missing out on
for over fifty years. Touchingly reserved through most of the
narrative, Dern allows Woody to open up to the audience for the
briefest of moments that works beautifully. It's an Oscar-worthy
performance.

Will Forte surprisingly underplays and buries his normal comedic ticks
and beats that made him so successful on "Saturday Night Live." His
David searches and finds many of the mysteries that embody the enigma
of his alcoholic father, giving Forte an ability to connect fully with
the audience. He is equally as affecting as Bruce Dern and this will
hopefully lead him into more complex and audacious roles like this in
the future.

The wonderful and delightful June Squibb steals the show. Getting the
film's biggest laughs and in many ways, offering herself up as the
emotional pillar in many aspects of the narrative, Squibb is someone
that could walk her way to an Oscar. Nelson's writing, especially in
the creation of Kate, Woody's wife, is freshly executed. Say hello to
one of your Supporting Actress nominees.

Other supporting players giving their all is Stacy Keach playing a
sleazy old friend of Woody's and Bob Odenkirk as David's brother Ross,
who bounces well off comedian Forte in some of the film's best scenes.

One aspect that I fell in love with was the score of Mark Orton is
musical accompaniment lands precisely with every bar and in every
scene. Editor Kevin Tent, who has worked on all of Payne's previous
films, finally has found his groove and maintains a steady pace to tell
our story. I have to admit that when I first heard that the film was
going to be shot in black and white, I'm immediately thought it was
going to used as a gimmick. Nearly five minutes into the movie, you can
see exactly why he chose to use it. Papamichael captures the natural
elements of light in several scenes, some involving a simple living
room, others when we're in the car with the family. "Nebraska" is one
of the year's best pictures. Something that will surely appeal to a
certain demographic of the Academy. It runs as a light and comedic
companion piece to Michael Haneke's "Amour." It's a film that will
surely be in contention for several Academy Awards including Best
Picture.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nebraska" stars Bruce Dern playing Woody Grant, a 77-year-old man
living in Billings, Montana who believes he's won a million dollars
from a publisher's sweepstakes just because he received a craftily
worded sales letter from the company. When the movie opens, we see Dern
on foot, hoofing his way on the outskirts of Billings and on his way to
Lincoln, Nebraska to claim his prize. It quickly becomes clear that the
years have not been kind to Dern's character Woody. Alcohol, age, the
bleak northern US Midwest, and the long line of life's events have left
Woody a bit addled, which is why a sales letter can make him believe
he's a millionaire. Turns out, he was always like that.

Woody's son David, played by Saturday Night Live alum Will Forte, also
lives in Billings. He sells home theaters and other consumer
electronics in the local appliance store, drives a dented Suburu wagon,
and has the usual dysfunctional relationship with his increasingly
disconnected father. After Woody makes several attempts on his own to
escape Billings and make it to Lincoln, David agrees to take Woody to
Lincoln in his Suburu. Events along the way take both Woody and David
to Woody's tiny fictional hometown in northeast Nebraska where Woody's
past awaits.

And there you have the setup for another of director Alexander Payne's
wonderful road-trip comedies, cast from precisely the same mold as
"About Schmidt" and "Sideways." This movie takes us through Woody's
long past so that the present can seen with sharper focus. If you like
those movies, you will love "Nebraska" too.

There's one more thing you will also love and that is June Squibb's
portrayal of Woody's wife Kate. Squibb plays Kate as a force of nature
with a mouth that's funny, insightful, profane, and tender all at the
same time. Dern's already won one film award for his Woody and many of
us believe Squibb will do the same with her Kate Grant. Squibb also
played the wife who suddenly dropped dead in "About Schmidt." We didn't
get to see much of her in that movie but she gets plenty of opportunity
to steal a bunch of scenes in "Nebraska." This is a very funny movie
with some poignant statements to make about aging, familial
relationships, and the past's influence on the present. In that way,
"Nebraska" is just like director Payne's other road-trip movies. But
"Nebraska" is its own story with an entirely different take on these
topics.

For some of us, it's a lot of fun to see great movies before they open.
We got the opportunity to see "Nebraska" a few days before it opened in
a national expansion of the New York Film Critics Series, which started
in 1995. Last-minute tickets for this event were provided by Paramount
through the tireless efforts of Tim Sika, founder and head of the San
Jose Camera Cinema Club. Thanks Tim.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Alexander Payne "Sideways" (2004) and "About Schmidt" (2002)
deftly handles the road-movie plot structure once again with dark humor
and satirical depictions of contemporary American society, yielding
fantastic results yet again, as a heartfelt journey to examine his
frail and flawed characters. Payne himself is a Nebraska native who
felt strongly that the movie be filmed black and white to capture the
mood of the old American heartland, and in order for the film to
receive funding from Paramount, he had to settle for a smaller budget.
As a result, Payne films and casts the movie in local communities with
actual residents which provides a realistic texture to the family
bonding tale. "Nebraska" is a humorous and heart-rendering story of
family, but it also sheds a light onto the people of America's
heartland, and our countries economic, moral, and cultural decline.

"Nebraska" starts as a road movie, with a father and son traveling from
Billings, Montana to Lincoln, Nebraska. David (Will Forte) has decided
to indulge his father Woody (Bruce Dern), who is struggling with
dementia and thinks that he can pick up his $1 million in winnings from
a magazine distributor in Lincoln. En route, they stop for the weekend
in Hawthorne, Dern's hometown, where they're joined by his wife (June
Squibb), and his other son (Bob Odenkirk) amidst your stereotypical
Midwestern relatives and friends, all of whom are extremely interested
to learn that there's now a millionaire before them.

The central relationship between Dern's stubbornly gullible dad and
Forte's passively irritated son gradually deepens as the movie makes
its way through middle America. What makes the film such a delight to
watch are the individuality of its characters. Each one is fun to watch
in their own right; the father's relentless determination, the mother's
humorous outbursts, and the son's sympathy and desire to bond with his
father. "Nebraska" reaches an emotional conclusion that echoes of
"About Schmidt" and "The Descendants" (2011) with an underlying sense
of lives largely squandered, but handled with grace and finesse that
feels innately genuine. "Nebraska" is another finely tuned, superior
slice of cinema crafted by Alexander Payne who achieves a more mature,
sentimental tone than previous films. The all-around marvelous
performances from the cast and supporting non-professional actors add
an unmistakable authenticity to this slice of Americana.
<|_=00=_|>
Time is a peculiar yet universally felt concept whose effects can be
seen in its numerous consequences either through the obvious traits of
aging or the far more subtle and subjectively felt intangibles such as
regret. In the heart of the Midwest there are depressingly poetic
examples of this thoroughly felt concept of time how the vast stretches
of what appears to be infinite plains of nothing are filled with
monuments of ruin either in the ghost town cities or the deserted
farmland all of which are consequences of economic hardship and
familial anchors. This is the melancholic setting of Alexander Payne's
new film Nebraska, a sad yet endearing road trip film that becomes a
sort of modern Don Quixote influenced story where a regret filled,
dementia gaining father resembling the infamous dreamer Quixote
resiliently chases the remnants of a thin dream accompanied by his
affably neutered son serving as the loyal Sancho Panza. Nebraska
clearly resembles previous films that have captured the distinct
American spirit and eccentric characters of the parched Midwest,
including Peter Bogdonovich's The Last Picture Show and David Lynch's
oddly accessible The Straight Story, but remains uniquely an Alexander
Payne film containing his penchant for mixing whimsically dry humor
with poignant humanity. At the center of Payne's film is an
astonishingly subtle performance from experienced acting veteran Bruce
Dern whose stern blankness and aging dementia makes for an intriguing
parallel to the derelict environments throughout the Midwest setting
which is captured brilliantly through cinematographer Phedon
Papamichael's poetic black & white imagery. This whimsical yet mournful
ode to Midwestern life, values, and legacy is aided through the lost
art of subtle acting and the usually non-existent talent for subtle
direction allowing the intended humor to land directly and the
emotional heart to enter gracefully. While Nebraska might be an
engaging, humorous, and sweet amalgamation of Payne's previous works
where the road trip element of Sideways meets the intimate family
dynamic of The Descendants it's definitely a transition film for the
quirky storyteller as it embraces a far more poetic and humanist side
to the director's incredibly heartfelt style of filmmaking. It's
difficult to say where exactly Nebraska will fall in Payne's
established film canon but as it stands on its own it's a deeply
lyrical reflection on the loss of time and a credible affirmation on
the long enduring existence of hope.

More on this review: http://wp.me/py8op-Ck; Other reviews:
generationfilm.net
