
Demonic is a film "presented by James Wan"... but not directed by him.
Anyway, regardless of the director's identity, the main problem of
Demonic is an atrocious screenplay which makes a useless effort to
repeat the success of "haunted house" movies from the past. It wasn't a
bad idea to combine supernatural horror, "found footage" scenes and
police investigation in one film. However, the combination is done
horribly in Demonic. The main plot of Demonic follows the police
investigation from detectives Lewis and Klein, who examine the scene of
the crime and interrogate the only survivor, trying to determine what
happened at an abandoned house. Another narrative level is composed by
the witness' flashbacks, in which we see the classic "ghostbusters"
routine putting cameras on the wall and searching for supernatural
manifestations in the dreary rooms and corridors. And finally, we have
"found footage" passages taped by the previously mentioned cameras.
That combination of formats and chronologies isn't done in a compelling
way at all, and then, we have the obligatory twist at the end, which I
found absolutely improbable and lacking of any sense or logic. I'm not
going to reveal it, but it feels arbitrary, like a desperate maneuver
to leave us with a final surprise, even if it has nothing to do with
the rest of the film. I went to see Demonic with low expectations, but
the presence of the solid actors Frank Grillo and Maria Bello gave me
the slight hope that the film would surpass them... but the truth ended
up being the opposite. Surprisingly, the performances from Grillo and
Bello feel as insipid and listless as the ones from the rest of the
cast, and Will Canon's direction is equally apathetic. The fusion of
supernatural and police subjects had potential, but Demonic does it so
badly that I felt it like an absolute waste of time, specially because
I watched it at the cinema, where I couldn't use the "fast forward"
button to minimize the unbearable boredom I felt while I was watching
it. On the other hand, "Grillo & Bello" sounds like an excellent name
for a restaurant; if they decide to stop acting, both have that good
alternative.
<|_=00=_|>
Cops investigate a massacre in a house with prior history, but are they
making things worse? 

Where to start? Good acting in the opening sequence, and the editing
sprang a shocking jump scare. Was it just me? I squealed like a
squirrel. So simple and obvious, but it got me. All in the timing.

This takes found footage to another level, where the analysis of the
footage becomes part of the story. Yet it messes with the genre by
directing the raw stuff with various fixed angles. And, for me, cops +
horror doesn't generally work because it gives the feeling you can
return to Kansas at any time.

The production is big and complicated, with way too many characters.
The closest comparison is The Taking of Deborah Logan, which I thought
was busy and overblown + lacking a hero, but with an excellent premise.
The premise here is less interesting, but the direction and editing are
better - although the film relies too much on huuuge music + there's no
signature scene. And it ends in sequel bait, so I'm not sure I likes
that.

Overall the pace is good, frights are frequent (with reducing impact),
but at no point did I sense the horror would get out of control. So
it's a solid wobbler. Hmmm. Give it a 5. Yeah, that's fair. Now I have
to check my rating for Deborah Logan.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest I look for any good movies to kind of watch. This movie
turned out to be a nice surprise. The story plot was kind of same as
has been there for most of the other movies in this genre. But still
the way it played out was very nice. 

It starts as with any good horror movie and keeps you gripped in your
seat. You can't help wanting more of it and trying to empathize with
the characters. It is a story of mystery and horror, gripped with the
thrill and excitement of watching a horror unfold itself. 

I would recommend anyone who wants to watch a nice horror movie to
definitely go for it. It has the occasional jumps and screams, but
turns out at the end you would start wanting more.
<|_=00=_|>
So I really enjoyed Will Canon's first feature film Brotherhood, it was
really tense and the story was very well done. So when I heard he was
directing a horror film I was pretty excited since Horror is by far my
favorite genre. The story seemed interesting enough and the set up to
the film had me interested, but then it all just kind of fell apart.

So the movie plays out with an investigator and some psychologist
interviewing a guy whose friends were just murdered at some haunted
house. Some of his friends are still missing and the police want to
know what happened to them. I liked this, it made me interested to see
what happened and find out where the missing friends are. What sucks
though is that every that play out from here on just isn't interesting.
There are a few jump scares, but only like 2 or 3, and other than that
really nothing at all happens until the last 15-20 minutes, and even
then it's nothing special. Everything just seems so rushed or like they
cut a good chunk of the movie out and then just showed us bits and
pieces of the missing material.

So right off the bat I really wasn't feeling the cast, nobody is really
likable. The people we are suppose to like are just dull, wasn't sure
if I was really suppose to root for anybody tbh. The group of friends
are all annoying and the rest of the cast just seemed like they were
phoning their performances in.

Overall I was very disappointed by this film. I just don't see any
reason why it needed to be made, especially with a pretty decent
budget. There is nothing new at all here, no gore, no real scares, and
really no suspense. Skip this one.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
There's two things you can count on if you're a director, whether big
time or small, and that is - If you're in need of an actor to play the
detective in your film, and your first choice (Michael Paré) is
currently busy, you can always turn to your second option - Frank
Grillo.

'Demonic' is exactly what I feared, which is why I avoided it for so
long, but I figured since I struggled through 'The Vatican Tapes,' I
can handle anything. Again, I am not a fan of possession flicks, at
all. 'Demonic' manages to throw in just about everything I dislike
about these films, with a ridiculous twist, that you can see coming
from a mile away. The cast is below average - Maria Bello seems
disinterested at every turn, and Frank Grillo struggles with his lines,
as usual. Seriously, does this guy ever prepare for any role? You can
tolerate him in 'Captain America 2: Winter Soldier,' because they can
disguise how limited, and useless he really is. Did anyone REALLY
notice the guy was even in that awesome film? Of course not.

The plot is the real killer here, though. It starts off as the usual
haunted house, then turns into an 80 minute interrogation of a
possessed kid who really isn't even there. But you can't really tell
how unusual this sort of shocking reveal is, since Frank Grillo's
facial expressions never change. He either looks constipated, or
clueless. That's pretty much all you get from Frank. As for Maria?
Well, she just wants her paycheck. The entire plot, the kill scene with
the walkie-talkie, along with the twist, all of it together, just makes
the film so laughably bad, you'll think you walked into another horror
comedy directed by Eli Roth. 

Random Ramblings of a Madman: Personally, I think if the coin had
landed on Michael Paré, 'Demonic' would have been, well, awful, but his
lack of emotion, and disinterest just seems more professional than
Frank Grillo. Maybe it's just me?
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched the movie, and while there is nothing new, it is quite
scary with old tactics that always work. You know that sudden loud bang
or sound effect to wake us up from a nap. To be honest, hate this old
tactic as if the guys who are paid well cannot find something new.
Also, the scare scenes almost have no importance to the main plot. They
are just demonically there because this is a horror movie.

The Plot Well, it was not boring in the plot, but we can always easily
guess the end. Nothing new here.

The Cast Now, this is where it really gets attention. The main guy
'John', he looks cute, but he cannot act at all. All the blank faces
from this guy is really annoying. One of the worst acting I've seen.

Summary This movie is something we can pass. Nothing new here: some
teenagers going to a haunted house trying to communicate with the dead
then things go wrong. But if you are looking for a scare here and
there, it worths a try.
<|_=00=_|>
The title says it all. This movie was put together from every existing
clichés of horror movies. Which is not necessarily a bad thing unless
the filmmakers doing it wrong. Like they did with Demonic.

The plot? Haunted house. Youngsters go in. Only a few of them comes
out.

The actors? Maria Bello is the only name you would recall from your
memory. She is not bad, but she has not much to do anyways as her
character is one of the most meaningless criminal-occultists-
psychologist of all times in this movie. Rest of the actors not even
worth to mention, which is not necessarily their fault this time...

...because it is the fault of the director/writer. The movie does not
have a real opening, does not have a decent elaborating part, and does
not have a good ending. The whole movie is a huge plot hole. I warn
you, you will have no idea what are the characters doing and why they
are doing it. The good thing is that you won't even care as the
characters are empty, just like the story itself.

There are some jump scare moments but they are only good for keeping
you awake as they are completely random and does not fit the events of
the film. (that screaming in the cellphone thing?!? What the hell was
that? )

You won't get any explanation either. After all the 80 minutes of the
film ( I gave it two stars because it is short at least) you will only
see an imaginary question mark in front of you. 

Avoid it.
<|_=00=_|>
To its credit, Demonic attempts to mix crime thriller and found footage
horror style into one parallel story. A group of cops arrive at a crime
scene to find strange evidences and a sole survivor of what seems to be
occult related incident. The movie works by using narrative of the
survivor while the cops collect the proofs to collaborate his story. It
wants to add tension to analysis aspect or bring more thrills to the
horror, but sadly the conflicting elements simply don't sync together.

The story starts with usual found footage style of paranomal
investigation. It mostly uses fixed camera angle or first person view
of the cameraman, occasionally it changes to average horror view. The
scenes would fast forward after the incident as cops review the
evidences, it has neat gimmick as not many movies present actual
finding or commentary of these tapes. However, the problems are already
apparent as the shift between the timelines can be jarring.

The viewpoint change feels disruptive to both elements. The tension
built in the found footage perspective can be cut short, while the
crime investigation doesn't really have depth aside from "good cop bad
cop" antic. There's not much personality for the character either.
These paranormal investigators are far from appealing, in fact they
might be interchangeable aside for who is dating whom. The lead
character has connection with the haunted place, but don't expect any
emotional investment from the bland delivery.

It does offer several good scares. These are made by setting the
haunting zone with unnerving cinematography. Visual is mostly greyish
for the horror part, which insinuates the tension and separates it from
the rest of the movie. Still, it's pretty straightforward and expected.
Not to mention it shifts just as the atmosphere sets it, the
investigation part suffers from this too just as they start to uncover
the mystery the pace reverts backwards. With the inconsistent delivery,
even the intended twist feels lacking.

While there are a couple of decent results, the mix of two genres
proves to be more incompatible rather than meritorious.
<|_=00=_|>
This wasn't a bad movie. I had no expectations for this to be good at
all. However, I was surprised. It wasn't great, but it was pretty
original, and the acting was well done.

My big problem with the movie was all the jumping back-and-forth
between the past and present scenes. They should've just stuck with the
people going to the house, and then they could've dealt with the
aftermath with the police. It was confusing for the first few times.

I gave this a 5-star rating. If you're in the mood for a fairly
original story that actually does have some jump moments that are well
executed, you might want to give this a try.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of ghost hunters visit a house where a séance happened that
resulted in a few deaths. The paranormal investigators decide to do
another séance which turns out to be a bad idea.

This one opens up with the police arriving on the scene of what appears
to be a bloodbath. One survivor is found and the police begin to
question him. The story is told through flashbacks leading up to
present time.

Fast paced, keeps you hooked and loaded with jump scares. Bonus points
for not being a full blown found footage flick. I would sum this one up
as a Unusual Suspects meets Ouija. Worth the watch.

6 birds flying out of your mouth out of 10.
