
movie was pretty good. had a great cast and story line. i recommend
anyone who enjoys action packed/violent type movies to see it! The
villains were very believable as villains. Josh Duhamel and Rosario
Dawson had great chemistry. Bruce Willis was great as the FBI guy. The
storyline was very good but somewhat predictable i.e (the love story),
however I enjoyed it and there were still some great scenes that could
potentially keep many people on the edge of their seat!Also the effects
and shooting scenes looked very realistic. All in all there was not a
dull or boring second in the movie and at the end of the day, I went
home satisfied.
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce Willis is featured prominently on the Box Cover and suckered me
into watching it, as certainly was the intention of the producers.
Sadly, Willis's part was completely uneventful. All I can figure is
they must have paid him a nice salary and promised him he would be on
and off the set in one day. They show him just enough that you think at
any moment the film would take a dramatic turn and Bruce would jump
into action. In the end, you could strip him completely out of the
movie and it would have had absolutely no effect on the film. So
therefore, this film will never be one that Willis will be noted for.
If you are a Bruce Willis fan, as I am; skip this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Similar recent action flicks with decent actors that were worse:The
River Murders(3/10), Set-up(3/10), Takers(4.5/10), and Elephant
White(4/10).

Donofrio is actually really solid as the villain here.

The story is very straight forward, but the brutality of some of the
violence is quite nice. They really earned the "R" rating here, and
that's always a nice thing when it comes to films like this. After all,
there's nothing worse than the clean PG-13 version of these types of
films.

I thought some of the power struggles between the villain and the cops
came off pretty well. We get the sense that the villain here is
practically untouchable, and that aspect of the film has a realistic
edge.

The films has it's issues though. The lead character is poorly
developed and a budding romance is glossed over like a 2 minute
cliff-note.

This is borderline 5-6 for me, but I'm sticking with 53/100! That
doesn't round up to 6; 6 really would be generous.

I was blown away by how many big supporting faces were in this film.
Somebody dished out quite a lot of money on this cast. Too bad the
script squanders the cast with suspect writing and a mail-list of
decent actors that have one line in the film.

I actually felt like I got my money's worth here, but I only spent .50
for the 3rd choice out of the redbox.

Considering the excellent cast - it's a bit of a disappointment. BUT,
considering the straight-to-video action write-off nature of the
release - it wasn't half-bad. It was only 44% bad:)

You might like this if you liked:Death Sentence(about even, I thought
Death Sentence was severely over-rated, 5/10), Set-Up(much worse),
Elephant White(worse), Law Abiding Citizen(about even)or The Last
Lullaby(better).
<|_=00=_|>
"I need you to trust me" - this is how our hero manages to save people
from burning buildings.

Unfortunately there is nothing he can do to save this movie.

As a lover of American cinema, I have seldom seen so much bad acting
and writing in one film.

The premise of a fireman going on a murder spree to fight for the love
of his life, whom he met in witness protection program, is so dumb its
painful to watch.

He is magically transformed into an killing machine after shooting a
few rounds in the forest with his love interest, Rosario Dawson.

Every character seems to be made out of cardboard, Bruce Willis is at
best a (poorly) supporting actor.

50 Cent is on screen for a total of 40 seconds, and I suspect it is a
redeeming quality that we are spared seeing more of him.

Vinnie Jones is the usual British bulldog, apart from the fact that his
ass is kicked by a fireman (this scene is so dumb, it made me cringe)

Vincent D'Onofrio is the only actor that is able to make his character
slightly interesting as the antagonist.

Trying to build a climax our fireman hero resorts to arson to save his
love, It would have been a perfect turkey if they could have written in
a scene with the dialog "everything going to be alright now"

Maybe they did, at this point I actually left - so I would not know.

Apart from an obviously decent budget, high production values - there
is nothing here worthy of a box of popcorn.

I need you to trust me, watch something else.
<|_=00=_|>
"I'm a ghost, I don't exist. I'm gonna find you and I'm gonna kill you.
I'm gonna disappear and no one is ever gonna know." After stopping at a
convenience store and talking to his owner friend Jeremy Coleman
(Duhamel) becomes witness to a double murder. When they decide not to
kill him Jeremy is left alone to ID the murderer. Not wanting loose
ends Jeremy is now a target and he must now fight for his life to
survive and also to take care of the killer the the cops have been
trying to get for years. I will start by saying that I am a pretty big
Bruce Willis fan but he has been very hit or miss lately. I really
liked "Catch .44" but thought "Set-Up" was lame. Also as a disclaimer
the quote I used is actually from this movie, not from the movie Taken
so don't let that confuse you. The movie itself isn't anything new or
amazing but it is actually pretty fast paced and keeps you interested
and watching the entire time. The movie when you break it down is just
another vigilante type revenge movie but again because it's so fast
paced and entertaining you can't stop watching. Also Vincent D'Onofrio
gives such a great performance in this that watching for just for him
is almost enough to keep you till the end. Overall, this is a fast
paced exciting action movie that is the perfect kind to just put in and
veg out to. I liked it. I give it a B.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many places we could go with puns on a title like Fire
With Fire. But don't bother.

I attempted to erase the memory of the dull Broken City with this, but
instead succeeded only in killing an entire evening. And when I got
home, my wife had eaten the final slice of my simnel cake. Some nights
are like that.

Fire With Fire opens with a cringeworthy scene that sets the
expectation depressingly low. We are left in no uncertain terms that
the film will be overacted from the outset, that it is scripted for
morons, filled with pantomime villains and cheesier than my nephew's
feet. Like Broken City, the screenplay is by a man (on this occasion
Tom O'Connor) who has absolutely nothing else to his credit on IMDb.

I stumbled upon this, having been unaware of its existence. It arrived
without fanfare, drowned by the other Bruce Willis vehicle, A Good Day
to Die Hard, and will likely sink without trace but for pillocks like
me who see it and then review it. I sincerely hope Willis is as
embarrassed about his presence in it as he seems to be about the
aforementioned Die Hard 5. I'm not actually sure what he did in Fire
With Fire other than run around a bit and then try to hide from the
camera when he realised how bad it is.

Fireman Jeremy Coleman (Josh Duhamel, who previously 'delighted' in the
execrable Movie 43), escapes a hold up in a convenience store by über
villain Hagan (Vincent D'Onofrio). Seen as a major witness in a trial
to rid the world of Hagan, Coleman is placed in the witness protection
programme and whisked away to a far off state where he is allowed to
keep his forename and does nothing to alter his appearance. He is
placed in the care of US Marshall Talia (Rosario Dawson) who caters to
his every need. Predictably.

And then the baddies come after him again. Predictably. Baddies which
include Britain's greatest acting export, Vinnie Jones (who,
mystifyingly, has 71 film and TV credits to his name compared to just
57 for Sir Kenneth Branagh. Explain that!). Yes, that's the level we're
at here and it doesn't improve one iota.

In a moment of tenderness, Talia asks Coleman how he gets people out of
fires and he delivers his next line ins such a way it might just as
well have a great big flashing neon sign that states 'REMEMBER THIS
LINE. I'LL SAY IT AGAIN AT THE END OF THE FILM WHEN I, PREDICTABLY,
SAVE YOU FROM A FIRE.' The thing is, when we get there, he gets it
wrong! And even the fire from which they escape looks like the cheap
special effects (i.e. from a gas canister) on Casualty.

Oh, in case you didn't get the whole title thing, it has a double
meaning: Coleman has to beat the baddies at their own manner (i.e. with
guns) and he's a fireman and there's a fire. Geddit? Shall I explain it
again just in case you didn't follow? Well, Coleman, you see, is And
that's Fire With Fire.

Please, god, let there be another 10 star film out there for me soon.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
A fireman witnesses the murder of a convenience storekeeper and his
basketball-playing son by a white supremacist gang leader. Fireman
decides to testify, gang leader threatens to kill him and all his
friends and everyone else who might mean something to the fireman.
Bruce Willis's cop gets the fireman put into witness protection but
gang leader locates him and then the hot federal agent the fireman has
started porking is nearly killed as a result. Fireman goes on the lam
and decides to take care of business alone.

Oh God, really?

OK, it's got some production values and it's also got Bruce Willis, 50
Cent, Vincent D'Onofrio and Vinnie Jones in it. Rosario Dawson is also
in it as the main squeeze and the lead is played by Josh Duhamel. Now
Duhamel has been in some Transformers movies and some other stuff. So
the cast list has something or other going for it generally.

It looks pretty slick and glossy, not exactly cheap but certainly no
blockbuster. There is some moderately explicit violence, some good fire
effects and it doesn't move slowly, in all fairness.

Apart from that, it's boneheaded, cookie-cutter rubbish. It's been done
before and been done better...much, much better. "Generic" is stamped
through it like "Blackpool" through a stick of rock. 

The dialogue is all dumb, lame clichés, the plot is a composite of
about twenty other movies and the action sequences are nothing but
tired retreads of stuff we've all seen before. If you've got nothing
else to do, it will idle away some time, but it's the sort of movie you
wouldn't pause if you went to fetch a beer from the fridge. You won't
care about missing bits of it because it won't matter. 

Banal and undemanding, not vital, straight to video, fire and forget
film making.
<|_=00=_|>
Placing Bruce Willis, very minor role, in a film and not using him to
add to the action and thrill effects of the story is crazy. The villain
is better than the hero and the hero once he decides to seek revenge is
poorly matched to come against men who live for violence. The basic
idea is that a good hearted man will always win the day and be able to
rescue who he loves the most. There is a lot blood in this movie,
romantic scenes without the sex, and the skilled City detectives and
Federal agents are portrayed as totally inept goof-ups. One angry man
against a whole lot of prime criminals. This is a wonderful fantasy but
is it possible for Hollywood to ever make a realistic crime thriller?
<|_=00=_|>
(Minor spoilers follow.) To me, Vincent D'Onfrio's character symbolizes
everything that is wrong with this movie. The character is pure evil,
but is presented without any context. What filled him with so much
hatred? How did he gain such a powerful position? There's no context to
him at all. He's a strictly one-dimensional bad guy. (I should add that
Mr. D'Onofrio's acting is fine, but the script gives him nothing to do
except be despicable.) On the other side of the equation we have a
heroic firefighter who witnesses a horrific, senseless crime, yet lives
to tell about it. So of course, he becomes a target himself.

Do I really need to say any more? You've seen lots of movies like this
already. You know how it's going to end. When the script calls for him
to tell his U.S. marshal girlfriend one quick sentence about
firefighting, you know perfectly well that he'll say that line again,
during a fire, before the end of the movie. You even know which bad guy
will die last when the hero faces the insurmountable odds of ... oh,
why bother explaining? You've seen it all before. There's no reason to
see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
To start of with: the cast is very nice. Willis is not as present as
might be expected but hey - it's Bruce Willis right? Besides this: I
realized that he is getting old. The role he playes - for some reason -
does not fit him. I liked the story line even though it's somewhat
predictable. Most of the the actions scene's are OK. What didn't like
however, were the special effects in the final scene. It was far to
obvious that some of the fire scene's were not real at all. That could
have easily been prevented but since it was at the end of the movie, it
really left a very bad impression on the whole. Overall, I have rated
the movie with a four because of this. If these scenes would have been
properly shot, it would probably be a 6.
