
This film deserved so much more than what it got, both critically and
commercially, when it debuted back in May, where unfortunately it ended
up becoming one of the year's biggest box-office bombs. From the mind
of one of today's greatest directors, Brad Bird, the same great
filmmaker that gave us some of the best animated films of all-time like
'The Iron Giant' and 'The Incredibles' and the best 'Mission
Impossible' film to date in 'Ghost Protocol', 'Tomorrowland' is an
inspiring original story that above all promotes the two things that
have been lacking in today's cynical society; hope and the promise of a
bright future.

Some have accused this film of being preachy for promoting these exact
morals. But if you ask me, that just makes this film even stronger as a
result in how it boldly goes against the cynical mindset that you see a
lot of nowadays in favor of an optimistic vision of a better tomorrow.

Bird and co-writer Damon Lindelof make the right decision to not
over-rely too much on the world of Tomorrowland. This film may be
centered around a fantastic utopia where anything is possible but it's
more about the journey to Tomorrowland than the place itself and the
build-up leading into the film's finale is second to none. Ultimately
though it was the finale of the film that made it such a polarizing
flick amongst critics. But contrary to popular opinion, I thought it
was suitable for what the story demanded. 

In a year where characters like Furiosa are being regarded as some of
the greatest film characters of their time, this film features two of
the best female leads of the year, played perfectly by Britt Robertson
and Raffey Cassidy, respectively. As lead Casey, Robertson perfectly
conveys the character's optimistic outlook without coming off as
annoying while Cassidy shines in the role of the totally bad-ass robot
Athena. George Clooney is also excellent in the role of an inventor
named Frank who, compared to Casey, is much more pessimistic about the
future but gradually regains his faith over the course of the film. 

Don't let this film become one of those forgotten box-office bombs just
because it dared to critique the cynicism of today's society. With
brilliant performances and visuals and messages that resonate more than
ever nowadays, 'Tomorrowland' is easily the most underrated film of
2015 and another masterpiece from director Brad Bird.
<|_=00=_|>
I very rarely write reviews for movies, but after watching Tomorrowland
I've never seen a movie that's been so unfairly maligned by negative
reviews,especially considering that this movie was an absolute joy from
beginning to end. After watching it, and reading truly horrible,
reviews I'm starting to think that somebody hired a few live bodies to
slate this movie for their own specific reasons. 

The script, actors and directors captured the feeling of endless
possibilities perfectly. The FX were fantastic, there were no lulls in
the plot, George Clooney did his thing perfectly, the child actors were
incredible, and there were just enough twists and turns to maintain the
pace.

Please, please watch this movie and make your own mind up - the
negative reviews almost put me off, but I'm so glad I actually took the
chance. 

Actually there's one proviso here - and is probably something
consistent with most of the negative reviews: If you lack imagination,
or the yearning for a better world, then you'll hate this movie. Or you
want to raise kids who aspire to be nothing more than reality TV
actors. Or if you're a reality TV actor. Or your kids can't read or
write because you don't think it's important. Or if you think science
is dumb. Or if you can't embrace hope.

As for me...I loved it. I'll be watching it again and again :-)One of
the best movies of 2015, and now on my "favourite movie" list.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe the bad reviews. I also can't believe that nobody
understood what they accomplished with this film. It's Ayn Rand's Atlas
Shrugged! They managed to take that book and bring it up to date while
making it accessible to all ages. That is a fantastic feat in and of
itself. To also make it really entertaining is extraordinary. Cerebral
and action packed, it holds the attention of the young right to the
end. And the end? The film was the pin that showed the audience what
could be if only we don't give up and just make things better. Atlas
Shrugged and then asked for help. Everybody should see this film. Now.
Oh, ignore the comments about continuity. Does it really matter?
Artistic licence anyone? Right my review is over but I have to keep
writing because it won't post unless I fill the minimum line count.
<|_=00=_|>
I went and saw this with an open mind because of the mixed response,
and I must say I had a blast.

The story is unique, creative and quite compelling. It is original
science fiction which we do not get too often. The film is inspired by
the Disney park, but at the same time, it's more of it's own thing.

It is well acted and the characters are quite likable and believable.
Frank Walker is interesting, entertaining and has a sense of humor.
Casey is also an interesting character. I think George Clooney and
Britt Robertson portrayed their leading roles very well.

The film is also quite funny at times. During this film, I think I may
have laughed more than I usually do at the movies, which is saying
something.

I think Brad Bird did a very goo job directing. The visuals are
stunning and the special effects, while mostly CGI, are impressive. The
action scenes are neat and intense. There is not a single moment where
I was bored with the film. It also pays a nice homage to the Sci-fi
genre.

The one problem I had with this film is that I was expecting a little
more of the "Tomorrowland" place and that the story needed a little
more work.

Overall, this was a great film and I highly recommend it to fans of
science fiction. Plus, I think it totally puts "The Haunted Mansion"
(2003) to shame.

In the end, "Tomorowland" may not fully realize it's potential, but it
should be satisfying as a fun and intriguing Disney family
sci-fi/adventure comedy thrill ride.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is misunderstood, I'm writing my first review with the hope
to increase understanding and appreciation of it. Lose your
expectations and watch it as it is, an adventure. Think about the
things you see, analyze them. Don't expect to be on the edge of your
seat all the time from exciting action, it takes a back seat after the
beginning.. which the trailer seems to mostly contain and make a false
picture of the film. My opinion.. I try and keep this spoiler free.

While perhaps expecting a little more awe scenes, action and insight
into the "tomorrowland" society the movie has some very nice scenes.
2/3 into the film it somehow got a bit boring.. but it gets better.
Could perhaps have been cut on a place or too, but the scenes were
visually pleasing instead. A few confusing aspects here and there like
the transition at the end, but who cares? No one has seemed to bother
analyzing the philosophical aspects of pre-determination, alternate
realities and concepts like our consciousness creating our reality as
an reflection of our collective state of mind. The message is a fine
one and something to think about our outlook on life.

Does all the negativity really serve us? What's the content of news?
Only negative stories. Do they encourage you to go out and make a
difference or make you depressed and go on with business as usual it is
all going to h*ll anyways? But it sells and is a money making
mechanism.. It is a bit humorous the extent the level of fear the
society in the movie are in and project unto the children and society,
connections to our western society can be made too.

If you notice these things you will appreciate the hints at secret
societies and connections to the "Club 33" in Disneyland too and other
goodies like the rivalry between Nikola Tesla and Edison. Nothing too
profound or divulging from my understanding but it's there too, Tesla
is an under appreciated figure in our history who deserves a lot more
recognition.

These are the things I brought with me from this movie, and I'm a
sucker for scifi, which was what initially attracted me to the film,
but it turned out to just be eye candy to boot :) not the main thing
about the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this movie was fantastic. You should know what you are watching
and who is the target audience and have the right mindset. For example
if you are watching any of the Aliens you are looking for a bit of
horror, thrill and some brutality; and if you are watching Avatar you
are looking a hardcore mystery and thrill. I think Brad Bird did an
amazing job for its target audience. When I watched it I was not
expecting brutality, hardcore action or deep mystery, I was expecting
good quality soft Sci-Fi. I think it did great to keep me extremely
interested throughout the movie and the message of the film and its
delivery was beautiful. Talking to and reading the reviews of those who
didn't like it, I think they were expecting a Sci-Fi like Aliens, or
Terminator which is like eating Coffee and Cookies for lunch! You'll
not enjoy it because you have the wrong expectations! It's the problem
of the consumer not the product. So the bottom line is, if you are
looking for a beautiful soft inspirational Sci-Fi with an amazing
direction that you can watch with your kids and teenagers and
re-energize the dreamer in you, go for it! :)
<|_=00=_|>
I looked forward to this movie since seeing the trailers. The stunning
visual of Britt Roberts transported to an other worldly place, then
George Clooney asking "do you want to go?". Seriously? Heck yea! Maybe
I'm a hopeless romantic, but I enjoy stories that hold out the promise
of adventure mixed with hope and some genuine magic. I was not
disappointed. Tomorrowland hit all the right points with me--adventure,
mystery, characters to love and root for, surprise story twists, laugh
out loud moments, and, the best magic of all, hope. Saw it twice,
second time with grand kids. I will be adding Tomorrowland to my Disney
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
A bit uneven and too long (It takes the movie about 30 minutes to
really kick into gear). Otherwise I enjoyed the plot of slowly figuring
out what is Tomorrowland and what's the purpose behind it all. So it's
not a perfect film but a long way from the failure it's made out to be.
Brad Bird doesn't disappoint.

I have read quite a lot of negative comments about this movie and even
its message and I find that to be slightly odd. From saying science
should only concentrate on inventions instead of research to being
annoyingly preachy. God forbid if a movie has a message these days and
despite it having an agenda I thought the movie was fun and
entertaining.

I personally found the message of the movie to be pro-science and to
fight the cynicism and apathy that makes it seem it's impossible to
save the world from the direction we're going in. I usually feel
there's no hope for the human race but I like to see movies that try to
convince me otherwise and try to keep the small glimmer of hope alive.
<|_=00=_|>
From Walt Disney Pictures and Brad Bird, the Oscar winning director of
animated classics as The Iron Giant (1999), The Incredibles (2004), and
Ratatouille (2007), comes Tomorrowland, a new sic-fi action flick with
a powerful message, great acting from George Clooney, Raffey Cassidy,
and Britt Robertson, and breathtaking visuals. I give this film a
9.8/10 instead of the mixed reviews from the critics (like a 50% on
Rotten Tomatoes). It is also too bad that the movie was a box office
flop only earning $210 million worldwide against its HUGE $190 million
budget. It is a film about how fun the future can be if everyone has
the thought of "a great big beautiful tomorrow". I highly recommend
this to any Disney fans or those looking for a fun action flick, then
go check this one out.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the haters giving this movie ones and twos, because
this movie is phenomenal! This was my favorite Disney movie before
Inside Out came out (then it became my number two favorite). The
characters are nice and fun with just enough screen time and character
development to make them likable. The story: Brad Bird's GREATEST
PREMISE since a Superhero family! The world is going to end because
someone has implanted that idea into everyone's heads. So it is up to a
girl with a great imagination and determination to save it. But the
twist is the bad guy in this movie isn't George Clooney for making the
device, or the Audio-Animatronic girl, or even Hugh Laurie. It's US.
Because we didn't know any better, we didn't try to fight the idea of
the end of the world. So, in a way, WE are the reason that this movie
exists. I guess the only reason people hate on this movie is because of
the continuity errors and the fact that they are the bad guys. Speaking
of, this movie does have it's faults, but who cares when you have a
great story and characters AND amazing special effects. And, yeah, the
effects in this movie are beyond amazing. When I saw Tomorrowland for
the first time, and the rocket in the Eiffel Tower, I was blown away! I
saw the trailers and the effects made me gravitate towards this movie!
And the trailer is probably another reason why people don't like this
movie. The trailer made it look like an early preview for Star Wars 7.
I was also expecting that, but when I saw the actual movie, the trailer
didn't matter. So what if you didn't get a dumb action sci-Fi flick.
You have a new original idea acted well, directed well, written well,
and made at the right time that this movie should have been a hit!
Tomorrowland: Disney's dream on the big screen, and I LOVE IT.
