
I have just spent 2 hour on buses and 1 hour on foot to a cinema to
watch this movie, and it totally worth it.

It is fun and I love it.

I admit that there are something in the movie that is not logical or
not realistic, but it can still be called a good comedy as long as you
do not take all the things so seriously. 

Someone also mentioned that they are attracted by the trailer and are
disappointed after watching it. What I shall say is that trailer does
not exaggerate the fun point of the movie, I saw more fun spots in the
movie which didn't shown in the trailer.

If you just want to have fun, it is a good choice, but if you want a
very logical/classic/perfect story, do not try this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone has played cops and robbers at some point. This is the most
basic of imagination games a child could play not matter what part of
the world or even time period they came from. It about the thrill of
chasing the bad guy or being the bad guy and trying to evade the good
guys. You could stage a robbery or stop a kidnapping, but this is
something I could easily believe every one has done. But like most
growing people, these games end as adults decide to start playing with
something that truly interests them and make a career out of it.

But sometimes the cops and robbers game is fun enough that the adult
wants this to become their life. They'll ask for information on what
the next step is to becoming a real life officer. Either they'll be
scared away from the complicated paperwork and academy, denied because
of something they have or done, or they possess the will to go through
with it and make it a career. But you occasionally hear about those bad
apples that think its funny to impersonate an officer. Like the
characters in Let's Be Cops, their most likely stupid and don't think
about the consequences on the people they fool.

Justin (played by Damon Wayans, Jr.) and Ryan (played by Jake Johnson)
are two best friends that have lived in Los Angeles hoping that their
lives here would be better then in Ohio. This is not the case as Justin
is a video game designer whose more of an assistant then a creative
mind and Ryan is a bum friend whose football days are long behind him
and living off of a commercial payday that has kept him stable. They
head out to a college reunion as cops thinking it's a costume party.
Not only is it a masquerade party instead, but they have a hard time
fitting in with their more successful classmates.

Just as they decide they might go back to Ohio, they discover something
on the city streets; people are giving them double takes, the tallest
of men start to slouch and the hottest of women give them smiles. The
two quickly realize that people think that their cops. Ryan wants to
play around with this more, now getting the respect that he's wanted
after college, though Justin is more of a weak coward whose more
concerned with going to prison. The two eventually get good enough to
deceive the L.A.P.D. and start doing detective work for a Russian
mafia.

Every summer there's a movie that I'm gonna find is a surprise that I
didn't expect; Let's Be Cops is the surprise. It was a movie I remember
laughing at even though a lot of the gags were stupid, reminding me of
something like Surf Ninjas. ButI kind of like Surf Ninjas. So why am I
forgiving here and not of something like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
that was full of dumb jokes?

First of all, the jokes feel like timeless jokes, as to say that they
didn't rely on modern day or pop culture things that could be dated in
a few years. Second, the characters are likable. Both Justin and Ryan
feel like those recent college buddies that still need to find better
interests, but they put so much passion in what their doing that you
really want to see where they go with this. Third, I feel like that the
movie is in on the whole joke of cop clichès and that most of the
jokes, especially the jokes that aren't funny, are intentional.

I'll give this seven fake police badges out of ten. Let's Be Cops is
that comedy that will become a hit on television through repeated
viewings at midnight with teenagers and college students. I can't say
it's for everyone, but this is something you need to turn off your
logical brain to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me just start by saying that this isn't an over the top blockbuster
film like everyone seems to expect from every movie that comes out now.
For some reason people have these attitudes towards movies that aren't
packed with insane plot holes and story details wrapped up in a cgi
blanket to attempt to blow your mind. This movie is really a funny
movie, no matter what anyone says. My girlfriend was having a bad day
and I was low on energy to try to entertain so we went to see this for
a few laughs. It didn't disappoint. I didn't go in with high hopes that
there would be any real reason to like it very much but it came around
within the first few minutes of the movie. We both left feeling better
and like it was worth it, (and I am an adult so the 'teenager type
jokes' that one reviewer referred to are unfounded). Jake Johnson
really sells the image of a guy just looking for any kind of change in
his life and Damon Wayans Jr. is and actor that really puts a lot of
work into whatever role he is in. I don't want to ruin any of the movie
with bits and pieces that I enjoyed more than the others so I am
leaving you with this. If you have a desire to get enjoyment from a
film without becoming emotionally invested in a story that lasts 3
movies or longer with hints and clues popping up all over the place
eluding to a next installment of whatever series, (and enjoy comedy of
all types) then I would recommend this highly. Not artistic, not over
done, not offensive to the degree some say, just straight up good
comedy. Waaay better than the terrible Seth Rogen movie "the
Neighbors". Hope this helps.
<|_=00=_|>
This was actually pretty funny. Seeing that this is a Wayans Brothers
movie I wasn't sure if it would be too corny or have too many D&F jokes
too tolerate. Usually if the comedy is too dumbed-down / "family
friendly I'm out. But I was actually entertained. The D&F humor was
actually funny (giant naked man) and it wasn't the crux of the movie.
There's actually a good buddy cop theme here, it's hilarious to see
them test the limits of their new cop powers, the antagonists are
really threatening. There's a good action theme that goes along with
this story, I enjoyed it. I was surprised to see Andy Garcia
(Untouchables) or Jon Lajoie (from Youtube / The League) to be in this
movie, two of my favorite actors.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer I was reluctant about seeing this movie. I was
afraid it was a standard popular American comedy in which
absurdity-comedy was the focus, like most stand-up comedians and
Southpark. The movie does include these kind of jokes, but because of
the sequence of jokes and the "story" (as in standard rom-com "story")
I found the movie to be very funny. But then again it is difficult to
make a movie which everybody thinks is funny, for example I think the
Achorman 1 was the most hilarious movie ever but the sequel I thought
was terrible. So I think you will either love or hate this movie
depending on your sense of humor.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon its release, Let's Be Cops got negative reviews. It wasn't panned,
people and critics just said it simply wasn't good. There is a group of
people that loved this. Many cult classics were hated at first, then
eventually get a fan base. I am part of that fan base.

What people really need to know about Let's Be Cops is that it's not a
dim-witted comedy. Dim- witted comedies are like Strange Wilderness,
Brothers Soloman, and Dude, Where's My Car? Those are plagued with dumb
characters and a lack of intelligence and heart. Jake Johnson and Damon
Wayans Jr. are the main characters who are much smarter than the
average dim-witted character. Johnson is pretty close, but not quite. I
will admit this movie isn't very funny, nor funny as a typical
dim-witted comedy. Perhaps it would have been funnier if it had more
dim- witted elements and characters. Perhaps not.

Let's Be Cops is about two thirty-year-old best friends, Ryan O'Malley
and Justin Miller (Johnson, Wayans), who live in Los Angeles for
opportunity, but think it's time to go back to Ohio. Justin works at a
video game company where he is a big pushover; Ryan doesn't work and
and aspires to nothing, just wishing he could play pro-football. When
they intercept real police uniforms, they act like real cops, then get
involved in a high-profile drug case. The first little bit when they
dress up as cops and start acting like them is pretty funny because we
all know everybody would try to abuse their privilege. Then the
funniness starts to die down, but that is when the brains of the movie
come. 

What makes Let's Be Cops so appealing that so many people miss is what
the police work does to Ryan and Justin. For Ryan, it gives him a sense
of enjoyment and pride which he hasn't had in a long time. For Justin,
it gives him confidence and helps with his assertiveness. That is what
the movie is all about: finding your true self. Is the movie
unrealistic and silly? Of course, but that's what makes it a nice
watch. Two losers put on police outfits and something changes inside
themselves. They find the respect they've always longed for.
<|_=00=_|>
Good comedies are hard to do. Let's face it, we're bored with 'hangover
II etc' and a comedy isn't funny if it just repeats previous comedies
or if it is just banal humour.

Well, this film is neither intellectual nor cheesy. It has a really
nice core story about these two great guys who have had very little
success in life, but then they realise how powerful they are just by
wearing police uniforms. The story seems simple, but the two main
actors play it just right and it doesn't go over the top, but produces
a really humorous film that kept be riveted. One of the best comedies I
have seen, simply because it gets the balance right and is light,
exciting, fun, has a little depth, and made me laugh despite my grumpy
mood. Thoroughly recommended to everyone! No 'shocking'/rude comedy,
simply excellent fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Ryan and Justin, both are at a point in life when nothing seems to be
working. Ryan is a former college football star and seems he can't get
a break in Hollywood. Justin is a video game designer and can't get his
cop game off the ground. One day on their way to a costume party, they
discover that dressing like cops give them the respect and attention
they crave. This leads to a path to acting like cops and being part of
the LA police force. All is fun in games until they cross a real life
gangster and discover that being a cop is not as easy as in the movies.
A funny movie and also amazing how Damon Wayans, Jr. looks and acts
like his daddy. Funny and a good story, Let's be Cops is a peek inside
the police world.
<|_=00=_|>
At first I was not sure if I liked the movie. I assumed it was just
going to be another quotable movie where at times you had a good laugh.
But because I love both of the two main actors from the show New Girl,
I just had to see it. I actually found myself laughing way more than I
expected and would love to watch this movie again. Some parts were
taken too far but it had a good amount of clean humor and a little
crude humor as well. It takes a lot for a comedy to earn itself ten
stars. This film did not quite do it because of the scenes that were
over the top and probably should have just been left out all together.
Don't expect the same laugh out loud comedy like New Girl from Let's Be
Cops but it can definitely lift your mood and give you an occasional
belly laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best comedies I've seen lately. Comparing Dumb and
Dumber To with this is ridiculous. This movie is so much better. I
usually don't laugh a lot when I watch movies but I really laughed in
this movie. And it also has an interesting plot which is really
engaging. And two main characters are so funny each in their own way.
I've tried to watch a lot of new movies lately but usually I stop
watching them after half an hour as soon as I see how stupid it is. But
I would like to see more movies like this and I'm really disappointed
that the grade on IMDb is only 6,6. From now on I'll never check grades
on this site to see if I'm going to watch a movie.
