
I see the words "cult classic" in this movie's future. At the very
least, I'll be adding this to my collection of movies such as Kick Ass,
Pulp Fiction, Zombieland and Hot Fuzz that I love to watch over and
over. 

You know from the very first scene that this is not your typical
Hollywood junk. It was HYSTERICAL, albeit in a pretty sick and twisted
way - this is not for the faint of heart. The woman behind me must not
have seen the previews, because she got up and left. I'm going to have
to see it again this weekend just to catch some of the witty one-liners
that I couldn't hear over the roaring laughter. The audience even
applauded when it ended.

The script is razor sharp, and you couldn't dream up a better cast to
bring it to life. I've always liked Sam Rockwell, but this was a
star-making turn for him (at least in my book). You've never seen a
movie quite like this. I see a new movie nearly every week, and I
rarely feel compelled to sit down and write a review. So take my
advice, do yourself a favor and go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
When I was driving to the theater, I was doubting my choice in Seven
Psychopaths, because the trailer made it seem like so many films I'd
seen before that looked edgy and wry, and showed so much promise in the
previews yet fell short because of flat characters and muddled plots.
This one, however, did not let me down.

I suggest that you see this film purely because it tries to do more
with a movie than anything you've seen in a while, and it manages to
actually succeeds on all levels, while dangerously romancing the
clichés of toying with clichés, movies about writing movies, and
gangsters with a soft side. Every time the story started to get even a
little generic, wild cards came firing in from all sides.

The actors played their parts well, but Rockwell gave the best
performance. I was impressed by Woody and Walken's abilities to shed
their skins and get deeper into character than I've seen them be in
years. 

This is a writer's film--the subplots (really, borderline vignettes)
about the various psychopaths that Marty encounters are well done,
their back stories unfold at different paces, and their details that
connect them to the central plot are creatively deployed, while the
momentum of the film clearly hinges in the here and now and does not
make the mistake of merely chaining together several subplots to
produce one "dog" of a story.

I enjoyed almost everything about Seven Psychopaths. 10/10 to offset
the 2 that someone without a brain will rate this.
<|_=00=_|>
My friends and I went to the San Diego film festival this past week and
were fortunate enough to get into an early screening of Seven
Psychopaths, by Martin McDonagh. The film was very satisfying to me
personally, weaving an original story around rich characters. Story is
something that I take into great consideration when viewing a film as
it has lost a foothold in many films today. In terms of presentation, I
felt this movie to be a combination of Guy Richie, Quentin Tarantino,
and The Coen Brothers. It's hilarious, dark, gripping, precise, quirky,
demented, gory, and British. The frequent narration and character
introduction of the movie gives it a constantly evolving lure and makes
you feel like you're sitting by a camp fire listening to something
unfold. Even though their is a thick layer of narration and Peckinpah
darkness, it's fun as hell, with the acting a huge aspect of that; if
you want to experience a great story, that discovers a point to the
whole mess these characters undertake, and have a blast at the same
time, then go see this awesome movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get the insane plot of Seven Psychopaths out of the way: Marty
(Collin Farrell) is a struggling Irish screenwriter, who hopes to
finish his screenplay for a film called "Seven Psychopaths," while
battling a case of writer's block and author-indecisiveness. His best
friend is Billy (Sam Rockwell), a boisterous dog-thief, who usually
winds up dictating Marty's life rather than helping him along in tough
times. Hans (Christopher Walken) is Billy's best friend and partner in
crime when it comes to dog-snatching. After both Hans and Billy steal
an unpredictable crime boss's (Woody Harrelson) shih-ztu, it becomes a
violent, relentless cat-and-mouse chase to get the pup back, and in the
meantime, we get lengthy monologues between characters about the
production of "Seven Psychopaths" and how Marty's inspiration begins to
bubble when he starts considering the barrage of real psychopaths in
his own life.

There are several films that exist about the movie-making process and
it is a very difficult genre to make effectively. Seven Psychopaths
succeeds in balancing the art of characters and the art of plot
coherency, and it doesn't cross the line of becoming too involved in
the process and too concerned with "in" jokes that leave the audience
lost. To put it simply; the actors look like they're having fun, but
they make sure we are still amused and connected with the film.

Right off the bat, the first thing one can commend about this entire
experience are the rich performances by actors of all different career
heights. Collin Farrell plays a wonderful straight-laced man victim to
idiocy and unhelpful circumstances, and is only made better by Sam
Rockwell's character's shameless belligerence. Woody Harrelson, giving
us one of his many diverse roles in recent years, has the rare ability
of rustling up a fierce moment of seriousness and delivering a
devilishly funny laugh in the same breath. And who could forget
supporting-role king Christopher Walken, who continuously borders the
line of self-parody here in a memorably sophisticated role? At times,
Seven Psychopaths is a witty riot and at other times, it can be
monotonous and lengthy. For starters, the film looks and feels like a
Quentin Tarantino film blended with the likes of Guy Ritchie. Shots
have a very slim sense of narrative cohesion and many, many times are
we left bewildered at what we just watched. It's also apparent that the
film has a meta, self-aware tone that can be pleasantly charming, and
sometimes cloying and overly-cheeky. To simply my feelings; after many
sequences was I trying to comprehend what was just given to me and how
was I supposed to digest the experience all together.

I mentioned my feelings that the film seemed to drag and felt a little
too long - specifically the final scene in the desert which is roughly
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Perhaps if your interest is in cheeky
comedies and self-aware humor, you won't mind at all. The film is
certainly smarter and a lot brighter than some of the flyweight,
narrow-minded comic exercises that have bestowed on the mainstream
public in recent years. For once, it's refreshing to see a comedy pay
close attention to its characters, its events, and its performance,
never shortchanging anyone in the process.

NOTE: There's also something very, very different about the
cinematography of this picture, different from any kind of visual
atmosphere I have seen this year. The southern California area seems to
be captured through a grungy, saturated lens with colors appearing
bright, humid, and very warm. This easily makes Seven Psychopaths one
of the most visually calm pictures of the year.

Starring: Colin Farrell, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson, Christopher
Walken, Tom Waits, Abbie Cornish, and Olga Kurylenko. Directed by:
Martin McDonagh.
<|_=00=_|>
There is little doubt that this movie is not for everyone. If don't
believe it just look at some of the reviews, lot's of 1's and lot's of
10's, me I am somewhere in the middle, (towards the 10 end). It is not
for everyone because it is QUIRKY and I do mean quirky, with lesser
talented actors I could well be one of the people giving it 1 star,
however the acting was excellent. I have been big fan of Sam Rockwells,
since the Green Mile and in Seven he is hilarious. Colin Farrell, was
great and as usual Christopher Walken was superb. Mickey Rourke was
originally cast in the Woody Harrelson part, and while he did a good
job, I think the character might have been better suited to Mickey
Roarke. There something about Woody playing a character that is way
over the top, that feels like he's playing it way over the top, none
the less he was still funny.

This movie was full of hilarious one liners, and some very smart
dialog, the plot was at the same time funny and ridiculous. I read a
few of the reviewers that slammed this movie and most of them were
bashing the plot or the lack thereof, this is not a great who done it,
and I will agree the plot was paper thin, at best.

If you see this movie you need to see it for the acting and a fun way
to spend 110 minutes. If you are looking for a movie that makes some
kind of a statement or makes you really think about your life, then
don't see this movie, you will be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven Psychopaths is the best film to come out thus far this fall.
Written and directed by Martin McDonagh (In Bruges), this movie is a
one-two knock out with entertainment around every corner. The movie
stars Colin Farrell, Sam Rockwell, Christopher Walken, and Woody
Harrelson. Colin Farrell plays a writer struggling with a screen play
called "Seven Psychopaths." His friend (Rockwell) is desperate to help
write the screenplay. In the midst of all of this however, Rockwell
also has a business on the side with Christopher Walken where they
steal dogs, return them, and collect the reward money. Unfortunately,
Rockwell and Walken make the mistake of stealing Woody Harrelson's dog;
a psychopath who will stop at nothing to get his Shiatsu back.

This script for this film is one of the most original I've ever seen.
There are a lot of twists in this movie plot-wise and genre-wise making
it a fantastic, unpredictable adventure. Many would think that a movie
that jumps around through different genres would be a bad thing, but
this movie is so fluid and every plot point connects so well, that you
aren't bothered in the slightest about deciding what the genre is of
this film. A film with the title Seven Psychopaths promises intense
violence and you will get that, but not just that. This is not a
mindless movie that uses just blood as entertainment. This is a smart
movie that has plot and meaning. Yes, it's violent but there is also
drama and a surprising amount of comedy. This is without a doubt, the
funniest movie I have seen this year. The dialog in this film is
perfect. All of the characters have a certain wit to them, delivering
lines that are beyond hilarious.

The acting is superb. Christopher Walken is the best he's been in
years. This could very well be one of my favorite performances from
him. I liked Woody Harrelson in this movie more than I liked him in
Zombie Land. I applaud Sam Rockwell for being in this movie. He is just
so funny in this role and plays it perfectly. There couldn't have been
a better cast for this film. Everyone was flawless.

If you enjoy creative writing, talented acting, and movies that are
all-around completely original, then I encourage you to see this movie.
Martin McDonagh has outdone himself and made an incredible movie. Seven
Psychopaths is a must see. A+
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie last week and I am still returning to re watch
because it contains some of the most fascinating scenes I have ever
watched. 

I think the casting was very good. Sam Rockwell, who had already pulled
off a slowly degrading and paranoid character living in moon alone,
really succeeds in bearing the weight of the story. He is essentially
causes almost all the progress single handedly and the parts really fit
together.

Colin Farrell, who is a favorite of the director is another good flavor
but I didn't really get impressed with his acting or his character.
Because his character has almost no impact, he is dragged along to
different situations and usually has no bearing in the movie. Maybe it
supposed to represent the director in some level but it is very
interesting to see the story teller who doesn't even realize how little
control he has on his own story.

But I am mainly reviewing this title to praise Christopher Walken.
Every one of is scenes are perfect, he is just brilliant. I have always
liked him but I could never imagine that I would be impressed this much
with his acting. I think the character is very interesting, his dialogs
really fit the atmosphere and in general it was a very essential part
of a good story.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I'm gonna push my English to the limits to try and express the
wonderful feeling I am still savoring. It is all about pieces coming
together perfectly in this movie for me. The plot, THE ACTING, the
dialogs, the settings etc. Very shortly after beginning of the movie I
had gotten the sensation of being in the presence of a perfectly
balanced yet joyfully spontaneous story that allowed me the feeling of
a real life playing out in front of me however incongruous it might
seem. We all search for this in books and movies the story that would
just pick us up and take us along on an exciting ride. So few can do
that. Immersion isn't that what gives us the most joy in life. Do not
expect anything from this movie
<|_=00=_|>
Seven Psychopaths is a film that requires an acquired taste. If you
like films in the vein of Quentin Tarrantino, or loved Psychopaths'
director, Martin McDonagh's previous film, In Bruges, then you'll love
this film, and if you don't, you're left scratching your head for the
entirety of this film at all of the senseless violence and pointless
obscenities.

In the film, Sam Rockwell, Colin Farrell, and Christopher Walken,
kidnap a gangster's Shih Tzu, and this leads to all of the crazy,
bizarre antics of the entire film. That's all you need to know about
Seven Psychopaths. It's psychotic and the character's psychosis make
very little sense in a realistic fashion. It's over-the-top, and
glorifies itself for being as such. However, whenever you have the
likes of Rockwell, Walken, and Woody Harrelson, sharing the screen
together, there will be laughs, even if they're laughs entirely in
darkly comedic circumstances. 

Seven Psychopaths is just for a small niche audience, and I've just
accepted that I am not one of that audience. I can see how someone
would love this nonsensical film, I'm just not a fan.

I give Seven Psychopaths a 5 out of 10!
