
This incredible actor is given full reign in a film which capitalizes
on his ability to be both sweet and intolerably infantile. I am a fan!

I laughed a lot and I really appreciated insight into the world of
bi-polar craziness depicted with an even hand and so much love. It was
also a skillful depiction of a chaotic 1970's childhood.

This is the director's first feature film, but she knocked it out of
the park. Although I would say that casting Mark Ruffalo as a Boston
WASP is improbable, it worked for me. The scenes of his extended family
are worth the price of admission alone.

Zoe Saldana makes the move possible as she loves everything about Mark
Ruffalo that anyone does. I do not know Mark Ruffalo, but I know that
he is smart, good-looking, interesting and an exceptionally warm
person. The miracle is that this film-maker can tell the story of a
difficult youth without any rancor and with insights which are subtle,
heart-breaking and hilarious.

The children in this film give it great authenticity. I vote for them!
<|_=00=_|>
Maya Forbes writes and directs a personal story of bittersweet
childhood living in livid conditions with her sister, mother and
eccentric bipolar father. A landmark first feature that has enough
laughs but loads of conflicting emotions.

Zoe Saldana is a strong presence with her loving/loathing/longing and
everything in between character. The ideal mother of her time and
circumstances and the wife a man would fight for.

Mark Ruffalo is at the centre of it all with his charming, childlike
and exuberant portrayal. He masters the manic episodes, the frailty,
the fears, the hopes, the joys and the underlying deep love for his
wife and kids.

The kids, one played by Maya Forbes's own daughter, are really adorable
and act at a very high calibre. Creative, funny, aware and awkwardly
accepting their weird family antics with a touch of rebellion.

Ultimately most of the credit is due to Maya's inventing and passionate
storytelling in its form, content, message and lasting meaning. A film
that is very human and difficult, but finds glimpse of beauty in little
things that we should all hold dear. 

An easy but complex crowd-pleaser with much meat and mastery for the
critics and film aficionados.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite being a little too by-the-book and repetitive,"Infinetly Polar
Bear" is a pleasing piece of narrative that succeeds thanks to a
brilliant portrayal and definition of characters.

As stated above the film isn't that fascinating or riveting of a drama.
It hits the same note again and again and does not stray away from it
almost anytime. It is generally predictable and the dramatic texture
isn't as intense as it wants to be,it kind of hits you very light.
Moreover there are situations that are overplayed a little too much in
the beginning which gave the movie a hard time at getting started and
being believable, yet fortunately it picked up immediately as soon as
these couple of scenes ended. So to sum it up, it simply doesn't give
the necessary gravitas and intensity (both comedic and dramatic) to the
situation for it to be as riveting as a drama as it could have as it
could have been and I should add that I think that the cinematography
partially contributed to this: it doesn't have enough style or
distinction for it to stick out, leaving it in super generic dramatic
territory and palette and it has a variety of camera movements that get
distracting and aren't integrated well enough in the story. It could
have really sparked had their been some distinctive look and approach
in my opinion.

Despite all of negatives above, this movie really succeeds in making
you care about the characters, sticking with them and ultimately giving
you a true emotional link. That is undebatable thanks to very good work
from both Saldana and Ruffalo and especially the two girls playing
their daughters. But even more than that I believe that in the end it
is the script that makes you really care because of how well it defines
characters, situations and overall story arch. There maybe not enough
originality in storytelling or some non-clarity in the bipolar aspect
of the film, but man do the characters stick out and make for a
pleasant view and journey, culminating in a finale that got me more
than I imagined.
<|_=00=_|>
"Infinitely Polar Bear" (2014 release; 90 min.) brings the story of Cam
Stewart (played by Mark Ruffalo) and his family. As the movie opens, we
get a clever montage of 8 mm. footage from 1967 (how Cam and Maggie met
in Boston and eventually married) on to the present (i.e. 1978). Cam is
a manic depressive and he just got fired (again) on the first day of
his latest job. It leads to an outburst and eventually Cam is put away.
We then move to "six weeks later', where Cam is in a halfway house.
Maggie is desperate to improve their financial situation and decides to
do an MBA on a full scholarship at Columbia, leaving Cam to take care
of their 2 daughters Amelia and Faith. At this point we're about 15
min. into the movie but to tell you more would spoil your viewing
experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: first, this movie is a labor of love from
writer-director Maya Forbes (best known for her work on The Larry
Sanders Show). She bases the story on her own upbringing and as such
the movie is pretty much autobiographical. To make things even more
authentic, she cast her 12 yr. old daughter (Imogene Wolodarsky) as her
younger self (Amelia). I noticed in the movie's opening credits that
J.J. Abrams is one of the executive producers. Second, I don't know to
what extent the portrayal of the Cam character is an accurate
reflection of being manic-depressive or bi-polar. Yes, there are the
highs and the lows, and yes, there is the habit/need to never throw out
anything and instead collect like hamsters do, but is that enough? I do
not know. But it all looks quite innocent on the big screen, and no
'bad' things happen to anyone in this. Third, the four leading acting
performances (Ruffalo, Wolodarsky, Zoey Baldana as Maggie, and Ashley
Aufderheide as Faith) are all enjoyable, and the interaction between
them feels authentic. Fourth, the movie, set in the late 70s, contains
a treasure trove of period cars from the 60s and 70s. Check out the
Peugot station wagon Cam has at some point, but that's just one
example. Truly a eye candy for car aficionados. Last but not least,
there is a terrific soundtrack, including both the original score (by
Theodore Shapiro) and a bunch of songs (best of all, George Harrison's
Run of the Mill, which plays at the conclusion of the movie and over
the closing credits; and also China Forbes (of Pink Martini, and sister
of Maya Forbes) bringing an excellent new tune called "The Northern
Line", also playing over the closing credits).

This movie made quite a splash at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival. No
idea why it's taken another 18 months for this to get a national
release. "Infinitely Polar Bear" opened some weeks ago at my local
art-house theater here in Cincinnati, and apparently is enjoying a good
run. The recent early evening screening where I saw this at was
attended nicely. If you are in the mood for something that could be
quite heavy but in fact is brought with a light touch and a smile never
far away, and you want to see something light years away from
Hollywood's standard summer fare of action heroes, I might suggest you
give this a try, be it in the theater, on VOD, or eventually on
DVD/Blu-ray.
<|_=00=_|>
'Infinitely Polar Bear' is a very charming Comedic Drama that focuses
on Cameron, a manic-depressive father who (after his wife leaves to
study in New York) is required to support his two daughters on his own.
Now this is a very small film that many people would not have heard of
but with two big leads in Mark Ruffalo and Zoe Saldana, you know that
if anything you are going to get really good performances. This was
overall a very dramatic, heartwarming, and at times emotional personal
story that does delve into slightly darker tones here and there, as you
would expect when it comes to the condition being explored in the film.
These darker, more serious and dramatic scenes are made up for with the
inclusion of some very well placed comedy that really does work to
lighten up the tone and also make you laugh briefly throughout. 

The performances in this film were all fantastic, especially Mark
Ruffalo and the two children in the film, they just killed it the whole
way through. Zoe Saldana did a great job with her role even though she
isn't featured as much as Ruffalo and the children and was great to see
her acting ability in something smaller than a 'Marvel' blockbuster.
Ruffalo did such an incredible job at playing a difficult character
with such a complex situation that if there weren't so many other great
performances this year he might have snuck in a Best Actor Nom. He was
incredibly convincing and portrayed all of the very contrasting
elements of this very complex extremely well. He bought in great
comedic timing to keep the film light and the way he acted, right down
to slight hand movements and facial expressions was great to see how
really into this character he was. Seriously there were moments in this
film where he didn't even need to say anything, just the look on his
face at times told me everything i needed to know about his current
state and that shows off his incredible acting talent. 

The two child roles could have just been typical, generic, annoying
children who were just there to act as a device to further the plot.
But holy crap they were both fantastic, and even came close to stealing
the limelight from Ruffalo. The roles were played by two unknown
children Imogene Wolodarsky, and Ashley Aufderheide, who had no other
acting roles prior to this film. Now i'm not gonna be getting too
excited about these two because one role doesn't mean you are a super
talent, but they do show that they have the ability to act in really
dramatic roles. These two roles contribute to much of the emotion of
the film and seeing how they react and change throughout the course of
the film was very interesting and it was fun just watching their
transition over time. 

In the end, the overall plot of the film is original and very
straight-forward but it is the emotional journey of these characters
and their progressive relationships that made this such an enjoyable
movie. The very heartwarming and dramatic elements in the film were
very fun to watch and i had a smile on my face most of the time, it
even almost broke me to tears at one pretty emotional moment. The
darker moments really contrast the lighter tones and were very sudden
in their placement in the film, but the comedy that Ruffalo brings to
the table helps to not get too dark. It was fun journey watching this
families relationship and if you like heartwarming, dramatic tales,
this is definitely an enjoyable worth your time. - 7.6
<|_=00=_|>
Everybody does a decent job in 'Infinitely Polar Bear' except for the
screenwriter, who never develops a genuine narrative arc for her film
after its brief introduction which depicts the mental breakdown of an
ex-Harvard student called Cameron. This episode is followed by a couple
of minutes glossing over the period he spends in institutional care,
while his wife Maggie struggles to raise their two young daughters as a
single mother.

The story begins for real after Cameron is released and starts living
in a halfway house in the Boston suburbs. When Maggie is accepted into
an MBA program in New York, she asks him to take over housekeeping and
parenting duties while she's absent, and Cameron moves back into the
family home with their children. Unfortunately the threesome's chaotic
life together is portrayed with only slight variations in tone. The
film soon develops a enervating tedium as it rolls out a seemingly
endless sequence of similar scenes documenting how the two girls cope
with their father's mood fluctuations. This shortcoming is exacerbated
as writer/director Forbes chooses to depict only the surface symptoms
of Cameron's mental condition, and declines to offer a satisfactory
resolution at the end. Manic depression deserves something better than
this glib treatment.
<|_=00=_|>
'INFINITELY POLAR BEAR': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

A comedy-drama flick, about a bipolar dad, struggling to raise his two
young daughters; while his wife tries to support their family, in
business school. The film was written and directed by Maya Forbes; and
it's based on her own life experiences (as a young girl, with a bipolar
father). The movie stars Mark Ruffalo, Zoe Saldana, Imogene Wolodarsky
and Ashley Aufderheide. It's an interesting, and well made film study;
on mental illness, and how it effects loved ones.

The story takes place in late 1970s Boston. Cameron Stuart (Ruffalo) is
married to Maggie; and they have two young daughters together, Amelia
(Wolodarsky) and Faith (Aufderheide). When Cameron has a bipolar
breakdown, he's fired from his job and put in a mental hospital. Maggie
moves their daughters into a cheap apartment, in a poor part of town.
When Cameron is released from the hospital, Maggie asks him to take
care of their kids; while she goes to business school, in New York full
time. Cameron agrees, and then struggles to maintain his sanity; while
also trying to be a good father.

The film is a great examination of bipolar disease; and how mental
illness effects family. Ruffalo is exceptional in the lead, and the two
young girls are outstanding (as well); especially Wolodarsky, playing
Forbes (as a young girl). Forbes' script is clever, and very
thoughtful. Her direction is decent, but not anything too memorable.
Still, it's a pretty impressive directorial debut.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/b_aLk3J5gh4
<|_=00=_|>
I had no expectation before watching this movie, and i'm very glad that
i did. there weren't a moment where i didn't have a smile on my face. 

Mark Ruffalo was very remarkable. this is probably his best acting i
have ever seen. the kids in the movie were also incredible. they
reminded me of my little sisters. Although i felt that the movie was a
little short, that's probably why i also thought this was a brilliant
piece. 

In conclusion, it's a very good family entertainer but i would suggest
you to watch it once before anyone watch it with their family with
young kids. 

Thank you for such a wonderful movie. i'd never regret if i watch it
again. Please do give us more quality movies like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Living with a bipolar father proves difficult for two young girls when
their mother has to move away to study in this comedy-drama blend set
in the 1970s. The title comes from the youngest daughter misnaming her
father's condition as "polar bear" - thematically relevant as the
overall film is about the two girls learning to accept their father's
behaviour beyond their own preconceptions, appreciating what he does do
well. From such a description, the film might sound overly sweet, and
in a way it is, only ever seeming to skim the surface, focusing only on
how embarrassed the girls are by their father's inability to integrate
into society. There are a couple of moments in which the girls
genuinely seem afraid of what their father might do, but the film never
tugs at the full experience of living with someone with mental issues;
as others have said, Mark Ruffalo comes off as more an everyday
eccentric than a manic depressive. That said, Ruffalo's performance is
the film's best asset, frequently communicating a genuine interest to
bond with his daughters and care for them in small, subtle ways. His
facial expressions and movements convey more than his dialogue and it
is easy to feel for his frustration at not being able to be everything
that his daughters want. It is much harder to reconcile the film's
blanket negative attitude to the US public school system throughout,
but it does act as an acceptable symbol of all that the girls' parents
are worried about, and the film does offer an acute portrait of parents
doing what they can for their offspring, even if it falls short in
other areas.
<|_=00=_|>
In the late 70's, in Boston, the bipolar Cameron "Cam" Stuart (Mark
Ruffalo) lives with his mulatto wife Maggie (Zoe Saldana) and their
daughters Amelia (Imogene Wolodarsky) and Faith (Ashley Aufderheide) in
an isolated house in the countryside. When Cam is fired from his job,
he has a mental breakdown and Maggie is forced to institutionalize him.
When he is released, he moves to a small apartment while Maggie works
to support the children. She decides to apply to an MBA to improve her
income and she is accepted by the Columbia University in New York. She
asks Cam to take care of the girls for eighteen months and he agrees
despite his fears. Maggie moves to New York and Cam is responsible for
Amelia and Faith education. Will the scheme work?

"Infinitely Polar Bear" is a heartwarming film with outstanding
performances. The dramatic situation of Cameron is shallow, but the
movie is delightful to watch. Just as a curiosity, the girl Imogene
Wolodarsky is the daughter of the director Maya Forbes. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "Sentimentos que Curam" ("Feelings that Heel")
