
I have never wrote a review for a movie before now, and I have written
this because I am so annoyed with people's ignorance towards a good
animated movie. 

I watched 'the good dinosaur' yesterday at the cinema, not knowing what
to expect as I had not looked at any reviews and I had only watched a
30 second trailer...

I entered the cinema with my mum and we were the only adults without
children with us! So, before it started I was slightly sceptical,
thinking that it was going to be very kiddish! Then the film started..
through most of the film, my mum and I were in tears! It is the most
heartwarming, emotional, animated film I have watched and it really
touched my heart, some of the scenes in the film were so brilliantly
thought out to show real messages! There was one scene where I was in
floods of tears, the scene dealt with a serious theme, but did it so
brilliantly! (you'll know what I mean if you watch it!) I even came out
of the cinema with my eyes still watering!

All I am saying is do not listen to the bad reviews. Most of them will
be expecting something complex but, this film is really not about that!
This film is inspiring! Especially for children! It is a simple film,
but the subtle messages, such as overcoming your fears, the importance
of family, and making your mark were heartwarming, and make you think,
a lot! 

And for those reviews that said the film scared their child? Well, I
was in a cinema full of children ageing from 2-10, and throughout the
film they were asking questions, laughing, and full of excitement! This
film was very funny, but emotional at the right times, with a great
plot that really makes you think! I loved this film a lot more than
other Pixar films such as wall-E, Up or Toy Story. Yes, I know that
these films have imaginative, classic plots, but this film teaches you
a lot more than they do, and also makes you feel for the characters! So
go ahead and watch! But don't listen to the bad reviews! Make up your
own mind!
<|_=00=_|>
Pixar have always been a shining light of absolute quality in story
telling, characters and animation.

Where DreamWorks and Disney often labor the point of a story, or fumble
around in sentimentality, mediocrity - Pixar have always been
absolutely genius at bringing something original and truly memorable to
the screen. 

A company that produces such wonderful movies as Cars, The Incredibles,
Nemo, Toy Story and Wall-E - should not, could not - produce this
completely worthless piece of nonsense.

My three year old spends his days singing the songs from Cars,
recreating the action with his toys, and playing with his Woody and
Buzz - he's also a HUGE dinosaur fan - so while something like "Inside
Out" is a bit beyond him, how could a dinosaur movie where the dinosaur
is good rather than 'scarewee' as he says go wrong!!!!

Seemingly on every single level.

While the scenery is gorgeously rendered with absolute realism the
characters themselves are completely devoid of any effort at all. There
is nothing about Arlo the dinosaur or the small human boy that is even
slightly interesting or novel. They are drawn and animated as though
someone said to an animator - you have 10 minutes to render a dinosaur
and a small boy. It is saying something when the toy dinosaur in Toy
Story is rendered with more love and affection, and more genuine
character than any dinosaur in an entire movie which has the word
'Dinosaur' in the title.

Apart from a small 2 minute section of the movie, where they meet a
very interesting hippie dinosaur who was brilliant but who they
inexplicably just bump into, exchange about 20 words with and then
leave - there is no redeeming or interesting character anywhere in the
movie.

Arlos father seems to be more interested in Arlo murdering a child, his
siblings seem to be evil bullies - Arlo himself is a wimp and the human
child is more wolf like than human. Every other character they meet
seems to be either racist (some deep South accented dinosaurs portrayed
as dumb hicks) or some weird T-Rexes who gallop along rounding up bison
with accents straight out of John Wayne movies.

The film moves from one scary scene to the next, so from horrible storm
and a badly injured limping Arlo, to Arlos father being drowned in the
river, to Arlo in another storm falling down a hill and passing out in
the water, to him falling off a cliff, to him running out of food, to
being attacked and hunted and so on and so on.

It is completely relentless in its desire to just move to another cliff
hanger. The friendship between Arlo and the human boy seems like fluff
- with just silly setups like character A gets stuck, wakes to find
character B has helped them. Character A gets hungry, finds character B
leaving or shoving food there way. Character A and B fall asleep and
wake up to find they're leaning against each other. There are no
genuine touching moments, "Ice Age" while garbage compared to most of
Pixars output, still managed a more convincing buddy story of odd
companions traveling together than did this movie.

At the end of the movie Arlo finds his way home and inexplicably pushes
the human boy onto a random human family that he moments before
rejected for some reason. He makes his way home and is allowed to leave
his foot print on a wall which he wasn't allowed to do earlier because
his family viewed him as a giant clumsy wimp who wouldn't kill a human.

There was so much opportunity for a movie which had the premise that
"What if, the dinosaurs weren't wiped out". But apart from the farm
that Arlo and his family come from, there is no indication of any
dinosaur civilization other than random ones that try to either attack
him or eat him. I was expecting something more Flintstones - but it
seams that the only premise for the meteor missing the earth was to
allow a dinosaur and a human to co-exist in the story.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm in my twenties and to be honest, I still enjoy watching Pixar films
with my family. There's just something so genuine and beautiful about
their movies, not to mention the endless amount of lessons one can
learn.

When I initially read the reviews about "The Good Dinosaur", they were
all so bad. It didn't stop me from watching though and I do not regret
that decision. This has got to be one of the most heartwarming Pixar
films I've ever seen and it tugged at my heartstrings. I was crying
throughout the movie especially towards the end. 

The thing about being an adult, we tend to overthink something so
simple. The plot isn't something grand. It's not funny. It's cute. If
you're looking for a film like the classic Pixar favorite "Toy Story",
forget about watching this. It's a really simple storyline that focuses
mainly on teaching the importance of family, dealing with fears and
overcoming them as well as finding oneself or making your mark in this
world. View "The Good Dinosaur" with an open mind and just be ready to
enjoy the movie without reading too much between the lines. The good
thing about Pixar films is that they remind you how wonderful it is to
still be a kid at heart. This movie is no exception. In fact, I think
this joins the ranks of "Finding Nemo","UP", and "Inside Out". Everyone
has a right to their own opinion, but I can't help but wonder why
majority just plain dislike this movie. 

If you're on the fence after reading one too many 1-star reviews, I say
go ahead and still watch it. Judge for yourself. Be pure hearted like a
kid and try to embrace the beautiful lessons of the film. Allow it to
engulf you and touch you. If you have a kid/kids, this would be one of
those perfect films to have a hearty conversation with afterwards. It's
very inspiring, really. 

Give "The Good Dinosaur" a try. Oh and one more thing, don't be afraid
to cry while watching this. I've seen this twice and still end up a
mess every time.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably the worst animated film I ve seen the last decade. What
annoyed me most was the fact that Pixar decided to use a very common
plot such as "farm boy lost in the wild try to find its way to home
with the help of a wild animal" but in order to mix it a bit and
attract more audience, the farm boy ended up to be a dinosaur and its
wild pet a human...For real? Is this a dinosaur movie? Seeing dinosaurs
behaving like humans and humans as wild animals isn't what I call a
plot!It is just disturbing! Moreover, the fact that Pixar decided that
the evolved dinosaurs would create human-like societies instead of
following a different path shows lack of imagination! Everyone loves
dinosaurs because they represent something exotic in our minds,
humanizing dinosaurs at this level is just disgusting!
<|_=00=_|>
I was beyond disappointed with this movie. I actually checked online in
the middle to make sure this was actually a Pixar film. The writing was
so abhorrent that I almost got up and left in the middle. One line that
I just found unbelievable was when the scar-faced dinosaur said he
drowned the crocodile in a pool of his own blood! There was absolutely
no comic relief and I only felt relieved when it ended. It is on par
with the unedited version of Toy Story. Will think twice about going to
the theater to watch another Pixar film. Don't waste your money. We
went to see Inside Out at the theater and even though it had adult
themes and was stressful at times, it had a deep redeeming meaning. I
know that they were trying to show the bond of family and friendship
but it was so lacking. If the whole script was rewritten to be funnier
and less scary, then it would be worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
It's pretty amazing that so many people seem to want to trash this
movie. I watched this with my 2 daughters and my 10 year old said it
was the best movie she's ever seen. She identified with Arlo's anxiety
and insecurity as she also feels this way sometimes. His journey in
dealing with these issues by facing his fears and, even if sheepishly
at first, challenging them one by one helped her to understand herself.
It allowed her to see that others struggle and can overcome these
struggles in a way she hadn't seen before... up close and personal. As
a child and adolescent therapist in practice for over 16 years, I can
definitively tell you that any movie that prompts a child to look into
themselves... to challenge their fears... and ends with them hugging
you tightly, is a true marvel to behold. It's the core of the emotional
artistry that movies are meant to be. Having an emotional connection to
a movie or any work of art for that matter, will always win out over
special effects and beautiful backdrops. It's the reason Star Wars: A
New Hope was brilliant and The Phantom Menace sucked. Anyone have any
kind of emotional connection to The Phantom Menace these days?
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying that I've never seen a Disney film I didn't
like, but this was the first movie I've ever walked out on.

Inside Out went viral and word spread it was a charming movie. The
opposite is the case for The Good Dinosaur; word is spreading that it
is an awful movie. You can't rely on stunning graphics to make a
successful movie. The storyline was boring and it recycled the same
plots as Land Before Time (not Disney), Finding Nemo, and The Lion King
making it extremely predictable. However, unlike those three successful
movies, there was very little humour, charm, or heartfelt moments
present in this film. It relied heavily on action and cliffhangers.
Although the moral of the story is good, "sometimes you've gotta get
through your fears to see the beauty on the other side", it was nothing
profound. Think of the message as though it was a gourmet dinner served
on the lid of a trash can. 

Although the film is promoted as a children's' film (Its rated PG but
it's advertised on the preschool Disney Jr channel), it is not a
children's' movie! Forget the intense moments of the Poppa dying near
the beginning Mufasa style, or the violent dinosaur fights.. The same
happened in The Lion King and I expected it in this film as well. Don't
be naive to think that animal violence wouldn't make an appearance in a
dinosaur film. However, many of the dinosaurs in the movie are cruel
and down right creepy! A gang of pterodactyls manipulate Arlo into
helping their search and rescue team (which turns out to be a cult,
'the storm provides') and after Arlo saves a baby animal, the leader
eats the baby alive. Really Disney? Not necessary. 

There is also many inappropriate drug references in this film. The
obvious being when Arlo and Spot ingested some rotten berries and
hallucinate. If that was the only alcohol/drug reference for the sake
of humour, I could look past it (Think Dumbo's pink elephant parade,
Tangled's drunk Cupid, etc). However, there are at least two more drug
references that were more sneaky and clever to impress the adults in
the audience (the paranoid drug induced spiritualist triceratop, the
gang of meth addicted hillbilly velociraptors). Just inappropriate in
my opinion and they made for a cast of unlikable, creepy dinosaurs. I
guess Arlo was the Good Dinosaur because he said no to drugs...

I hate it when reviewers say this movie is inappropriate for children
because of the animalistic violence. Again, what did you expect? It
isn't scary, it's more disturbing and unlikable. As a major Disney and
Pixar fan, I am sad to say this movie is a major flop and does not live
up to the standards many parents expect from these studios.
<|_=00=_|>
The fact that this movie still holds a score of a 6.8 with hundreds of
1/10 scores shows you just how good it is. I'm not here to preach that
it's an awesome movie, but give it the score it deserves. (It's not
PIXAR's best, but still fits the bill of a good movie.)

Honestly the highly negative scores are just because people were not
BLOWN away. A PIXAR movie sets the bar so high, so the fact that this
one isn't an A+, people are bashing just to bash.

I watched this with my cousins, all at the time were under 10 ( 7 & 9 )
and nothing was too scary. Could it be over the top for 4 or 5 year
old, of course, but it's not that bad. The Lion King is regarded as one
of the BEST Disney films ever and there are similar scenes with death,
scary bad-guys, hard times, etc. 

Give it a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to watch it expecting to find it childish, or perhaps a little
predictable, but it was far worse than I could imagine. Not suitable
for kids, and absolutely terrible for adults. It practically is a very,
VERY bad imitation of The Lion King, along with a bit from Brother
Bear, Ice Age, A Bug's Life etc., but completely lacking the heart and
meaning of any of these movies. The movie doesn't even explore the
implications of dinosaurs existing along with humans, to the point
where it made me wonder why they didn't just pick some random animals
to tell their story and let go of the whole alternate reality of
dinosaurs and humans co-existing altogether.

There isn't really much of a plot to begin with. It's a road trip kind
of movie (like most recent Disney and Pixar movies), during which Arlo,
a young dinosaur, meets a human child with whom they become unlikely
friends (surprise surprise), and many random characters along the way,
who do very little to move the story forward. There is too much
unnecessary violence, as well as a very weird drug scene, neither of
which seem to serve the (limited) plot in any way. In addition to all
that, the film isn't that visually beautiful either: the backgrounds
are extremely detailed, whereas the dinosaurs look very cartoony and
out of place.

Almost every scene of it felt familiar, from the human boy stealing the
dinosaurs' food and them going after it, resulting to Arlo's father's
death (Brother Bear), to Arlo and his father having 'meaningful'
conversations about bravery under the, well, fireflies (The Lion King),
to the supposedly bittersweet moment in which Arlo lets the little boy
stay with the other humans (The Jungle Book/Ice Age). The Lion King
kind of moments in particular where countless; Arlo even roars at some
point, to little effect, until he manages to do it properly towards the
end of the movie, for heaven's sake! Also, for some reason I do not
seem to comprehend, the human boy was behaving, not like a human or an
ape, but more like a dog, much like Maximus in Tangled and Sven in
Frozen.

All in all, don't watch this movie. Stay home and re-watch the Lion
King; it has so much more to offer, even if you're watching it for the
millionth time.
<|_=00=_|>
No point talking about the quality of visuals. This is Pixar, so you
know exactly what to expect.

Plot wise, the story is called "The Good Dinosaur". Revolves around a
create who tries to earn his mark - the rite of passage, by doing
something good.

And how does he accomplish that? First, by causing the death of his
father and blaming it on a human creature he was supposed to protect
the food from. Then while the dinosaur goes on his little adventure,
the family is left to starve, taking care of their crop field without a
breadwinner. Though his journey the dinosaur naively exposes a small
creature to vultures, who violently devour him in front of his eyes. He
nearly loses his human companion to the same group of predators.
Redemption does come, if one is to ignore that the dinosaur selfishly
denied the creature the chance to re-unite with his own kind earlier,
which would've prevented the whole ordeal.

He also encounters a group of T-Rex ranchers who tend a flock of
buffalo's. The dinosaur helps them recover their lost herd, after being
explicitly threatened by the head T-Rex. I can assure you, those
carnivores don't raise buffalo's as pets, but unlike the vultures they
somehow get to be the good characters in this movie.

When the journey ends, the dinosaur earns his mark, which might work
from the audience's perspective, but if you judge him by the merits of
his family all he's really done is abandon them with no prior warning.
The good dinosaur left and came back later without a father just in
time for the harvest. A true hero! I give the movie 2 stars. 1 for
outstanding graphics and 1 for manipulative tear-jerk moments that
worked as intended. The movie may be inappropriate for smaller kids due
to occasional violence.

As for the lessons it teaches kids, the best one, I guess, is not to
trust vultures... when they try squeezing $15 out of you for a movie
ticket.
