
We two 50+ grandmas went to see this film on the spur of the moment
because we enjoy musical movies. We were probably the oldest people in
the audience which ranged down to younger teens but everyone,
regardless of age, was laughing and having a grand time. Much less
schmaltzy and self-serious than Glee, but wonderful vocals and dancing
and personality. You can't help but fall in love with the hilariously
quirky characters, especially Rebel Wilson as the irrepressible Fat
Amy, Elizabeth Banks as Gail, the sexually frustrated female announcer,
and Hanna Mae Lee as Lilly, the wackadoo who releases the most shocking
comments in a voice that barely exceeds a murmur. Fun, feel-good and
highly entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of the people I saw Pitch Perfect with truly enjoyed it. They
laughed and clapped and booed at me when I expressed my disgust. For
many, this movie will definitely be enjoyable. Make no mistake, that
does not make it any less of an awful movie.

Several factors contribute to my low opinion of Pitch Perfect. The
largest of these concerns is the cast of characters. While there are
few complaints in the acting department, the characters themselves are
among the worst set of "people" committed to screen in recent memory.

"Beca" (is that spelling supposed to be hip or something?) is an
arrogant, brooding, selfish brat who spends most of her time sulking on
her computer and complaining about being forced to go to COLLEGE and be
with PEOPLE (blegh, right?!). This is a perfect setup for character
development, right? Wrong. After a half-hearted apology for being a
terrible human being before the climax, Beca morphs not into an
upstanding social and moral butterfly, but a smug leader of the troop
she so recently was kicked off of, and this is the image the audience
is left with.

"Jesse" is the most cliché love interest one can imagine. Seriously,
girls, if you ever meet a guy this perfect and blameless, marry him.
Jesse prances throughout the movie being sweet to everybody, from his
unrealistically nerdy roommate to the jerks he sings with. He pursues
Beca valiantly for no particular reason and provides the cliché moral
criticism Beca so desperately needs late in the movie (but of course he
takes her back). While girls might be enthralled by this sentiment, no
true development can occur through a character who is so blatantly
one-dimensional.

Worst of all are the two commentators for the sing-offs, Gail and John.
These two buffoons spew dialogue that is not only shockingly
inappropriate for television/radio, they simply aren't funny. While
clearly trying to channel Fred Willard's comedic performance from Best
in Show, the pair instead come across as amusing as your drunk
middle-aged parents at a frat party.

Other character "highlights" include the mind-bogglingly narrow-minded
and stubborn team leader, Aubrey. Stacie provides the necessary
college-aged sex-addicted tramp character (a character so over-the-top,
you're guaranteed to squirm). Bumper (the captain of the boy's singing
team) is a character so insanely arrogant and rude that he is not only
hard to enjoy watching, he makes you want to kill every jock on the
planet. Slowly. 

The movie's second fatal flaw is its achingly stupid sense of humor.
Yes, boys and girls, Fat Amy is funny. She has several good one liners
and lends the movie its only spark of humor-related vitality. However,
all else falls flat. The most achingly obvious example is the
vomit-laden climax. Seriously, was that girl doing vomit-angels
supposed to funny? I guess I just don't get it.

Also, for a PG-13 flick aimed at mostly female tweens, Pitch Perfect is
surprisingly offensive. The movie takes heavy jabs at nerds, Asian
people, Jewish people, redheads, and probably more that I fail to
recall at the moment (not to mention several distasteful jokes like the
one about eating another baby in the womb). Seriously, filmmakers, you
aren't Sacha Baron Cohen, and you don't have the same audience. 

Finally, the movie follows the most cliché (I like this word, don't I?)
storyline imaginable. Girl has trouble in college. Girl meets boy who
befriends her. Girl joins team of has-beens. Girl pushes away boy away
because of her past and her daddy issues. Girl forced off team. Girl
"learns lesson" and wins boy back and helps team of has-beens win
championship. Yay, ingenuity!

Ultimately, the comedic sparks from the humorous character Fat Amy can
not save Pitch Perfect. I'll be honest, this movie completely lost at
the vomit scene(even Miss March was more tasteful than that!) I was
quite aca-thankful when the movie came to its (very abrupt) ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Take Bring It On, Glee (not in the icky cheesy way, but because there's
singing involved, the good kind), Mean Girls, and add some
quick-witted, sharp-tongued dialogue and commentary, and you have the
funniest of movies. 

At first I was leery: a movie about A Cappella singing groups; I
thought at best, it would be a teen flick. Yes, I know, Anna Kendrick.
But bigger (some better) names have made some doozies. But, I was
unbelievably surprised. Every kind of humour is covered here, and done
to absolute perfection. You will be adopting many, many of the lines
into your daily lexicon. 

For me, Rebel Wilson (as Fat Amy) and Elizabeth Banks (as Gail, the
commentator) have some of the most hysterically smart lines ever
committed to celluloid (right up there with Young Frankenstein).

Loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was never planning on seeing this particular movie after seeing the
unfortunate trailer. However, I had heard good things about it from
people who's opinions I used to trust. I won't make that mistake again.
Pitch Perfect was awesomely terrible. It began innocently enough, but
then it quickly devolved into a mash-up of just about every single
cliché one can fathom. It has the loner girl who doesn't want to try
new things but then she gets involved with a group and she has friends,
yay! The girl falls for the guy, but she screws it all up, but don't
worry they get back together in the end. The group starts out terrible,
but then because of the new girl with fresh ideas they step up and win
it all! So many eye rolls in one film!

Even after this, the worst part of the movie has to be the awful sound
mixing. The songs are so doctored that one is painfully aware of the
actors' lip syncing and it takes you right out of the movie. They could
have at least tried to make it sound like the songs were being recorded
live, rather then using so much auto tune and other forms of voice
manipulation. 

Then there were the plethora of jokes throughout that fell so flat it
hurts. Some of those jokes were even repeated multiple times, because
once wasn't bad enough. At least Rebel Wilson provides a few brief
moments of relief from the onslaught of worn out and unfunny jokes.

But, like, that's just my opinion. If you like terrible things like
Glee, then you will probably love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
That I loved so much. I scored free tickets to a Denver Screening
awhile back and was just going to have my wife and 13 year old daughter
go , but I watched the trailer and really thought Anna Kendrick was
terrific in 50/50 and very good in Up in the Air so I thought, what the
heck, I'm going too. Was I glad that I did. I laughed like crazy and
loved the a capella singing. This film is really raunchy and just
skirts around an R rating several times, but it is just so fun.

I am pretty confident that it is going to be the surprise box office
hit of the fall and it is so much better than the films that it is
bound to be compared to like Mean Girls, Bring it On, and even
Bridesmaids. 

Speaking of Bridesmaids Rebel Wilson almost steals the show with every
scene that she is involved with being hilarious, and in a lesser movie
her scenes most certainly would be worth paying the price of admission
alone, but there are so many other talents involved. Elizabeth Banks
has never been funnier. Skylar Astin as the love interest is also
terrific though he needs to change his name, because for me the name
Skylar brings only one thing to mind and she is married to Walter
White.

This is no Oscar Winner, I am certain that I will see a dozen or so
better movies this year, but none will having me laughing and smiling
as much.
<|_=00=_|>
The single best thing I came away with after watching this movie was
the wild relief I felt knowing that at least I didn't pay to subject
myself to it. Some positive word-of-mouth made me curious enough to DVR
it. An 81% rating on Rotten Tomatoes got me to sit through the whole
thing (albeit with a fair amount of time spent pressing fast-forward),
just to see if there was something - ANYTHING - that could justify such
an absurdly high score.

Short answer: There wasn't.

I'm given to assume it got its high rating only because the studio
wouldn't allow any critics to screen it without first producing proof
that they possessed an IQ of 70 or under.

If you read the IMDb synopsis, you know the whole movie. Actually, if
you've ever seen any film starring characters under 25, you know the
whole movie. There is not a single unique idea to be found within a
light year of its sorry script. Comparisons to Glee are inevitable, but
the truth is, PP is so utterly dull and witless, so aggressively devoid
of joy or humor or anything akin to real human feelings, it makes the
worst episode of Glee look like Singin' In The Rain by comparison.

Ostensibly a comedy, the film is mercilessly unfunny. Their idea of
hilarity seems to run the gamut from projectile vomiting to juvenile
puns like a singing group called "The Minstral Cycles" to inserting
"aca" into every exclamatory phrase, like, "Aca-scuse me?!" and
"Aca-believe it!". Isn't that funny?! Aren't you just gasping for
breath from the amusement of it all? ...Yeah, me neither.

The characters, who are either grotesque, shopworn stereotypes or dull,
cardboard cutout caricatures, flap about from scene to scene without
ever even accidentally bumping into a real human attribute or emotion.
They're also supposed to be in college, but the movie is so bent on
regurgitating teen film tropes that nothing they say or do is
indicative of a person over 15.

You know your film is bad when you feel compelled to reference other
better films to move the story along or motivate your characters. For
Pitch Perfect, that other better film is The Breakfast Club, which the
2D heroine's would-be 2D boyfriend regards as the most meaningful thing
ever. There's a scene where said heroine (she had a name, but really,
who cares?) is sitting on her bed watching the flick on her laptop,
tears welling up in her eyes to indicate some grand epiphany ...which,
under the circumstances, must be her devastated realization of what a
GOOD teen movie looks like.

In sum, this is a film I'd recommend only for use as a torture device
on terrorists. Badly written, directed and acted with characters as
irritating as a rash and music numbers so awful, even the editor's
attempt to slice them into bite-sized bits couldn't make them any more
palatable. Funny only for people whose sense of humor atrophied at age
five and entertaining only for people who've never seen a movie before.
I give this a "1" only because IMDb does not allow me to score in
negative numbers.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an absolute, total, pitiful, dismal, ridiculous waste of
time. I cannot possibly believe that anyone enjoys this movie. There is
nothing meaningful and important, and the only reaction I have after
watching this is the reaction to punch the face of the person nearest
to me. I cannot relate to the characters whatsoever, and the story is
maybe the weakest thing since my mother's homemade teriyaki sauce. If
someone forced me to watch this again, I would gouge my eyeballs out
with a spoon to avoid seeing it. Seriously, it's that bad. Never watch
this movie. Ever. I cannot believe that there are people who view this
as the best movie of all time. I know someone who has watched it at
least 12 times and claims that it is her favorite movie. She thinks it
is impacting and wonderful. The only impact that was associated with
this movie to me was the impact of my fist smashing the disk into
several bite sized pieces. I will never watch this movie again as long
as I live.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler Alert (though hardly necessary for this predictable flick)

If you read IMDb's synopsis, you already know the entire story. It's
the "group of teen misfits who band together and win a competition"
movie. You've it a dozen times before.

This one has an updated, 2012 soundtrack, but all the other overdone
cliché's for this genre are fully intact.

If, however, you find slick, unrealistic, overproduced, a cappella
singing to be pure joy (Glee fan?), then you may find this movie
tolerable.

On the other hand, if you value your free time, pass this one up. You
will be spared several scenes of projectile vomiting, and the
"riff-off" (which will likely induce your own nausea).
<|_=00=_|>
Pitch Perfect is certainly a wildly popular movie, that came highly
recommended by countless friends and family. I had no idea what it was
about beyond 'singing,' so I fired up the DVD player at Château
Pulpitel, and eagerly awaited the many laughs I was assured this film
would provide.

Now they never really came. This film is as best I can gather, 'Glee:
The Movie' with the basic plot elements of your 'Bring it On' style
films. So if you love any of that stuff, stop reading now and go watch
it. You'll love this film so you needn't bother about my opinions.

Okay, it's just us now, right?

Where this movie falls apart is in two aspects; firstly its complete
disinterest in logic pertaining even to its own universe, and more
worryingly, it has an offensive attitude that is nothing short of
racist, sexist and more suited to your standard right wing attitude in
its portrayal of non-Caucasians, Jewish people, people with eating
disorders and women in general. 

This movie doesn't care about what happened before, or why something is
happening now. It's one big Deus ex machina from beginning to end. Why
did Ben Platt's' character Benji, turn up as stage manager at the
regional sing off event? Everyone else had to drive on the bus to get
there. Where was he? Why was he a stage manager at another university,
when he is a freshman amateur magician? Why was it that the best way to
get rid of Adam Devine's' character Bumper was to have a hastily
created scene with him immediately leaving to work with John Mayer-
negating any interest in his relationship with Rebel Wilsons'
appallingly offensive and unfunny Big Amy character? Why does no one
EVER study? THey don't even carry books, or pens, or seem to talk about
their subjects! This movie shows us countless avenues of interest and
then never refer to them again. It sets up characters and dumps them
never to be seen again. We are shown four acapella groups, one of which
NEVER does anything, at all! Why bother with all of these settings if
you never refer to it again? Because no one cared that much, would be
my guess.

More shamefully however, is the constant prejudicial attitudes
displayed in this film. This movie attempts to be funny by being
daring, and outrageous. So we get not one, but two Asian characters who
are simply awful stereotypes. One is a racist angry dorm- mate with the
main protagonist, who manages to be an unlikeable bitchy Asian
stereotype. The other is a 'crazy Asian' stereotype, who is a
pyromaniac who rolls around in vomit. You know, because Asians can't be
complex and meaningful. They are either bitchy nerds of perverts. We
aren't allowed to hear non-white characters speak too much either- our
token black character gets around 4 lines (you can't count the singing,
because its all clearly auto tuned and added in post) but gets to be a
problem gambling lesbian. But there's no motivation given, no
reasoning. And after the moment of confession, NO ONE CARES. Maybe it's
because she is black? The script writers were right to think that you
can do great joke about racist stereotypes, but they missed the concept
that you make fun of the behaviour and attitudes of racism, and expose
the ridiculousness of it. What they do here is reinforce stereotypes,
which should not be amusing for empathetic, caring members of the human
race. But we plough deeper into this morass, with obesity, bulimia and
deafness copping a serve. I strongly feel that no subject is off limits
for humour, but you need to be funny. Making fun of Deaf Jews, Lesbians
and Asians is not the same as being funny.

I found this to be a fairly heartless film, where morality and heart
are irrelevances, and not one that I could recommend to others. This is
not what comedy should be, if we're a truly civilised people.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this on cable last night. My friend who suggested we watch it
told me she'd heard from many that it was very funny. I did not think
it was funny at all. We watched about half of it (maybe the good parts
were in the second half?) Doubtful. 

As soon as the girl projectile vomited I just sorta knew it was going
to be awful. NOT because I don't like silly humor. Actually I love
it...when it's done right. But this in my opinion was just done wrong
and I did not laugh once whereas clearly this was meant to be a comedy.
I loved Rebel Wilson in Bridesmaids. She was hilarious. I was hoping
she would make this more entertaining but that was not the case. 

I don't know what it is with Hollywood lately. It's either vampires or
glee club. Its a little too much already. I would have liked to have
watched this movie with people who claimed it was hilarious and have
them explain to me what about it was funny. I just did not see it at
all.
