
Just to clarify one thing: I don't hate Tim Burton at all. In fact, I
kinda love his work. He has a very unique and imaginative vision, seems
to have a tasteful choice for actors (besides Johnny Depp as the Mad
Hatter), and can really pour his heart and soul in some of his films
like "Edward Scissorhands", "Corpse Bride", and "The Nightmare Before
Christmas". But, just like any director, he has his missteps also. Some
of his recent work is very lackluster and, at times, flat-out bad
(Planet of the... BLAHK!).

But I was still excited for this particular project of his. I haven't
read the book, or knew much about it, but when I saw the trailer I got
my hopes up. Maybe this will be his big comeback! Asa Butterfield is an
actor I like, the imagery is appropriately dream- like and the source
material seems to fit his style perfectly. It even has the screenwriter
from X-Men: First Class!

So I went to see the film with a few of my friends in a theater of
around 15 people and 25-30 recliner seats. I couldn't wait to see
another great Tim Burton movie!

And for the first half of the film... I genuinely enjoyed it! Sure, it
does take some time for Jacob to reach Peregrine's home, but once he
does... I couldn't help but smile like an idiot. The world that Jacob
enters is fascinating, the visuals are exceptional, and every one of
the peculiar kids are very interesting side- characters. I wanted to
learn more about the girl that could lift boulders over her head! There
is also this kid that can project his dreams into film... how cool! The
first act always left me with questions that I was excited to hear
about when the plot kicks in.

And then the plot kicks in...

That is where the movie starts to run out of steam.

I could tell there were a lot of story elements in the book just from
watching the movie, because in the second half a lot of it felt crammed
in. Whenever I try to follow the story as best as I can, there's always
this one subplot that makes precious little sense. It also doesn't help
that the villain is weak and his motivations are somewhat vague.

The climax is pretty abrupt and Burton sadly delves into a few clichés
that aggravate me. A lot of it felt by-the-numbers at that time, and I
was sorely disappointed.

That's not to say that this was a bad film, because it isn't. The
acting (especially from Eva Green) is competent, the whole film is
imaginative in its story and visuals, and somewhere buried beneath lies
a great film with lots of creative ideas and appealing whimsy. But the
plot is messy, the main character is bland, the pacing is at times
uneven and, in the end, it's just another average YA adaptation that
had loads of potential.

VERDICT:

+ Visuals + Well-cast, especially for Eva Green + Imaginative + Sense
of wonder in the first act + Solid directing + Interesting side
characters

- Villain - The hero is underdeveloped - Plot is messy - Pacing is
uneven - Unconvincing love chemistry

SCORE: 5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton strikes me as a pretty peculiar man so he was the right fit
for Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children, a film based on the
novel of the same name by Ransom Riggs. Burton has disappointed me
recently and I haven't really enjoyed one of his films since Sleepy
Hollow back in 1999.

Jake Portman (Asa Butterfield) is a boy who doesn't really have anyone
close to him, except for his grandfather. When tragedy strikes at home
and Jake is left feeling more alone than ever, he goes on a journey to
Wales to find out if there was any truth to the fairy tales he was told
by his grandfather as a child.

Stumbling across Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children, that his
grandfather visited regularly when fighting in the war, Jake soon meets
its inhabitants and Miss Peregrine (Eva Green) herself. Hearing her
speak of the danger the the children could be in, Jake makes a
connection between that danger and the cause of the tragedy at home.

This is very much a family film however, where I think it will lose
both adult and child audience members is the fact that it really is
quite a boring story told in such a dull way. Tim Burton has made
fantasy films before but there is no sense of awe or wonder as there
was in something like Edward Scissorhands. 

The screenplay from Jane Goldman is massively disappointing considering
the work she's done on the likes of Kick-Ass and Kingsman in recent
years. I enjoyed some of the film but for large parts I was bored
thanks to some incredibly drab characters.

The film certainly has a visual appeal but even that was ruined by a
final act that descended into utter stupidity. Up until then, I thought
the effects were really quite good. Then came the moment a crew of
skeletons fend off the enemy creatures from the children. All I will
say is that the skeletons in Jason and the Argonauts looked better.

Coming to the performances, Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children
makes a massive error in having Asa Butterfield in the lead role. He
hasn't done much of note in his career so far and I just found him so
bland in this film. Samuel L. Jackson's villainous turn is just
laughable but the film's biggest crime was not having enough Eva Green,
an actress who would have done the film a massive favour.

The use of time travel is something that hindered the film for me as
well. Events towards the end don't get explained very well at all,
leading to utter confusion as the film drew to a close. I'm sure I
won't be the only one who thought so. Overall, this is just a totally
forgettable film from Tim Burton.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton has tackled almost all of the genre's, and done most of them
very well. So who doesn't want to see him go back to his
adventure-fantasy comfort zone with Miss Peregrine? 

It's billed as Tim Burton's X-Men, and I like that comparison a lot. It
definitely has certain similarities to a mutant story, but with
Burton's flare for obscurity and peculiarity. Let me start off by
saying that I really liked the premise and set up. Not only are the
characters similar to X-Men, but the story slightly resembled Days of
Future Past. I love the time travel elements and links to World War II.
But the rest of the film just didn't live up to the promise of the
trailers.

As delightful as some of Burton's films can be, I find the unevenness
to be one of his biggest detractors of his otherwise intriguing ideas.
For some reason, the second half of his films don't have the same
cohesiveness that the opening's do. With Miss Peregrine, we are set up
with a much more grounded take to a heightened story than I thought.
You certainly get to see the impressive and outright strange abilities
of the young children, but it isn't taken into any extraordinary
levels, until later. The second half is flooded with ridiculous and
over-the-top 'peculiarities'. That's would be all fine and dandy if the
first half didn't set up an already intriguing story without all of the
added strangeness.

As for the performances, Eva Green is the only one that really stood
out here. She seems like a perfect fit into a Burton-esque drama. Her
line delivery and presence just speaks Burton. She's also the only
character that kept my attention from beginning till end. Sadly, she's
not really in it all that much, even with the title having her name. We
mostly focus on Asa Butterfield's 'Jake' and Ella Burnell's 'Emma'. Of
course, there is some romantic tension, but it never leaves the
constructs of a typical teen angst drama. I just didn't buy into it.

There's a ton of cool things about this movie, but by the time I left
the theater the whole idea just felt tiresome. But with all this said,
I would still be open to another entry in the series, just include Eva
Green a little more and don't fall into clichés, Burton. You're better
than that.

+Premise

+Eva Green is perfect

-First and second half are completely different films

-Romantic chemistry was hard to buy into

5.9/10
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter and I had read the books. Fans will be disappointed because
the film deviates from the original story so much, it is surprising
this is called an adaptation. The peculiar children as an example were
not all portrayed as written and some were even missing. My daughter
kept asking why this child or that child were not there? Miss Peregrine
is also not portrayed as she was in the book. I could go on and on. 

Acting fell very flat and characters were void of emotion except for
one scene where Miss Peregrine shows sadness. Jake in the book is
humorous and sarcastic but also had some serious feelings to contend
with about tough choices. Absolutely none of this was translated to
film. 

The ending was confusing, entire story rushed, and anti-climatic. 

Also, for 3D lovers, there is almost no 3D effects. There are some at
the very beginning which were great, but then the rest was like
watching a regular 2D film! 

Save your money for the DVD or Netflix!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not very familiar with Tim Burton's work (only watched a handful
of his movies), neither have I read the book, so I will review this
movie as it is, without comparing it to the usual craftsmanship of Mr.
Burton nor the characters or events as depicted in the source material.

I found the movie entertaining, and at no point did I wonder "How long
more is this going to be?" Any movie that never prompts me to ask this
question automatically gets a 6 out of 10.

Many reviews mentioned about huge plot holes in the movie, but I never
really understood what the plot holes were that make this a terrible
movie. I thought the story was quite easy to follow, even with all the
time loops, and makes sense in the make-believe world that we are
watching. I usually have trouble making sense of time- travel stories,
so the ability to simplify complicated concepts and making it easy to
understand for me deserves another star for intelligence. Though
probably it wasn't easy enough for a seven year-old to comprehend.

I also thought the soundtrack was quite good, I actually stayed till
the credits finished rolling to enjoy the music. This, along with the
camera work, gets another star to make it 8 out of 10.

To be honest, if the voting score is in increment of 0.5, I would be
more inclined to vote it 7.5 out of 10. I don't expect character
development for all the "peculiar children" in a movie like this (that
would perhaps be more fitting for a drama series), but the acting can
be improved. Eva Green has the best "on-screen presence", but she
doesn't appear until 30 minutes into the movie, so a bit of patience is
necessary. Also I found the editing a bit too abrupt at some points,
but that's about all the complaints I have.

I am quite satisfied with the movie, considering the amount of bad
reviews I have been exposed to. :)
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton does it again - he manages to create with passion and
imagination a whole new world, for those of us who need new worlds.
Thus if you love fantasy and dreams made serious and scary go see it in
3d because it's great. If you are more of an adult than the child
within and you like films with linear plot and logic and exhaustive
explanations you probably won't become a fan and that's OK too. Just
don't rate it low just because it's not your type, a movie should be
rated for what it was meant to be and for what the team behind it tried
to accomplish. Watch the trailer, if you like it you'll probably love
the film. It's worth mentioning that it is quite dark and scary so it's
not for every child.
<|_=00=_|>
It's official. For a number of years now it's been suspected that Tim
Burton had lost his love for story telling and this film just confirms
it. There exists no story whatsoever in this film, which is an
achievement considering it is based on a best selling novel with a
coherent story. For me this film was made just so Burton could live out
his fantasy of recreating Ray Harryhousen's famous stop motion
skeletons. Which he does badly, and to an odd ambient trance soundtrack
so out of place it made the Mad Hatter disco dance in his awful Alice
film look like art. The acting is awful considering the talent at his
disposal, the exposition is so clunky and the dialogue so stilted I
feel sorry for the actors. You can really tell Burton just didn't give
a rats ass about giving any direction to them. Which would have made
sense had the visuals been fantastic, but no, they were clichéd, old
and tired. Tim, please, retire with whatever dignity you have left. I
felt like I needed a shower after this film.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is about Jake who stumbles upon an orphanage where there are
beings with extraordinary gifts. He meets Miss Peregrine, who invites
him to be a part of the family. Burton delivers a breathtaking movie,
with gorgeous visuals. As he brings a fairy tale to the silver screen.
At the end, I found myself unable to stand, As "Miss Peregrine's Home
for Peculiar Children" tuggs on all the right strings and plays a
nearly perfect symphony. What stands out in this particular orchestra
is the soundtrack, As it breaths life into the story. 

As for the acting, Eva Green is perfectly cast as she plays an
estranged and peculiar mother figure. This is a Burton classic, if you
aren't a fan of his style, it's best to steer clear. The story is based
on the novel Ransom Riggs published in 2011. With Jane Goldman's
polishing touch, Burton crafts a mesmerizing adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
After a family tragedy, a boy named Jake follows a series of clues that
lead him to a mysterious orphanage on a remote Welsh island. 

There, he discovers a community of children with unusual abilities, and
learns he is destined to protect them......

Burton has a distinct eye for his wonderfully steam punk/Gothic tastes
when it comes to making a film, so this should have been a match made
in heaven when this landed on his desk.

But apart from the wonderfully odd characters that roam the world of
Burton, this falls flat, and sadly it fails miserably.

Butterfield must think he has a curse on him because with Enders Game
and this, he's a franchise killer. It looks wonderful, but special
effects alone do not make a film, and why does O' Dowd have to have an
American accent? I haven't read the source material, but surely they
could have tweaked something somewhere.

I was expecting something beyond the bizarre, harking back to the like
of Beetlejuice with a hint of Barker via Nightbreed, but instead I got
a mix of The Golden Compass and A Series Of Unfortunate Events: At
Blackpool Pleasure Beach.

And because I'm so used to seeing Burton Regulars I couldn't help but
keep comparing Green to Bonham-Carter (even though she is wonderful),
and Depp in the Jackson role, because we all know by now, Burton brings
the best out in Depp.

I will go back to it one day, I may change my opinion, but for now,
it's one of the biggest disappointments of the year for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't want to come across as that typical book reader that expects
the book and the film to be the exact same. Adaptions, I understand,
are necessary at times. However, this movie was so unoriginal from the
book it felt uncomfortable watching it. I felt angry, disgusted and
humiliated. Mrs peregrine- although Ava green acted so well that is NOT
what Mrs peregrine behaved like in the book, think of her similar to
professor McGonagall. And Emma, where to begin? Again the Ella purnell
acted well but seriously? Emma and the rest of the peculiars did not
come to collect Jake because Mrs peregrine asked her to??? Emma ran
away from Jake, was very hostile and dragged him to the peculiar
kingdom for questioning. She then broke down when she heard the news of
her grandfather. None of that happened. And her power of air? Emma
wasn't as half short tempered as she was in the book. There are so many
things wrong with this movie it's hard to cover it all. I was very
offended at how the hollow gasts were portrayed and how comic Samuel L
Jackson played Barron. He was the wrong guy for the role. I was not
scared of the hollows in the film. They looked like weird out of shape
monsters..and the ending? No comment.
