
I really enjoyed this movie, but I must give a disclaimer... I never
read the book, so I can't base my rating on how accurately the movie
follows the book. I found that this movie had a lot of twists in it and
wasn't as predictable as most other romance movies. (Also, it didn't
hurt that James Marsden is great to look at.) I thought the actress who
played young Amanda was really good, and I loved seeing the story as
the two were growing up & also in modern times. I'm not sure why this
movie has gotten so much hate... I thoroughly enjoyed the movie, and
would even pay to see it again if I get the chance.

I was not a fan of The Notebook, and would much rather watch this movie
instead of The Notebook. Sure, the movies probably don't follow
Nicholas Sparks' books super detailed, but they're good to watch if
you're in the mood for a heartfelt love story.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking for a nice romantic flick to bring my girlfriend to so it
could set the mood for the evening. Well, that plan failed and I ended
up bringing my ex to the movies to see it instead. It really touched me
in a deep way that no other love story has in the past. Sounds kinda
corny, but for me, it touched on some areas. Well, needless to say, we
held hands all during the movie and more later.

Okay, so I read up on the reviews before coming to see this movie and
they all made it sound like a boring box office flop, BUT reviews can
be very deceiving because this was a diamond that was tarnished by
viewers who had NO clue what a romantic flick this really is about! So
my advice to you is to go and see it with an open mind and heart and
let the movie just unveil itself to your heart and mind and see what
happens... best wishes!
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a typical Nicholas Sparks adaptation.

Yes, this film is cheesy, this film's corny, this film's cliché. But to
judge this film based on that alone is to completely ignore the context
and conventions of its genre. It's not a ground- breaking film by any
means, but it is ground-breaking if we're talking about Romances,
specifically Sparks adaptations.

Anyone complaining about the typical formula (i.e., girl meets boy,
girl's family doesn't like boy's family, the two lovers persevere,
etc.) clearly hasn't seen this movie. Amanda (the female protagonist)'s
father does fall into the typical mold of a disapproving, upper-class
father who wants the boyfriend out of the picture so his daughter can
have a bright future. But unlike a slew of other Romances (and even
Sparks' own adaptations), he's in the film for a very, very brief
amount of time. In fact, I'd go so far as to say he's not at all
crucial to the film. If anything, his part was intended to play to the
demographic and nothing else, which while regrettable, should say
something about how this film stands up on its own without relying on
clichés

I noted that film deals with real-life issues. We see issues of class,
family, and self-esteem illustrated much better than most Sparks
adaptations I've seen. Sean Bridgers knocks it out of the park with his
downright of patriarch and sociopath Tommy Cole, father of protagonist
Dawson Cole. The Cole clan in particular - a gang of drug-dealing(?),
abusive, sickos really deserving of the title "white trash" - brings
this film to life. They represent a segment of society that we rarely
ever get to see on screen. This film, unlike some of Sparks' other
works, does not cast a glowing light on the White South, and instead we
get to the gritty, shameful parts that actually made me forget what
movie I was watching. On top of all that, we get to see the
consequences of trying to break away from the most perverted "families"
that are present in every-day life. We get to see how that cycle of
anger, shame, and ostracism fuels the dirty (and violent) blood feuds
that still exist in the underbelly of this country. Luke Bracey shows
us what it's like for a young person dealing with this life, to have
their ambitions silenced, and the true pain that comes with leaving
one's family.

Above all, this film speaks to regret. (Spoilers ahead) All the
tragedies and hardships that meet the protagonists, unlike previous
Sparks adaptations, actually don't pull them together. We do see some
of that smarmy "Life's hard but we still love each other anyway" stuff
throughout the film, but for once we get to see that narrative broken.
Dawson's and Amanda's relationship gets tested, and for a while it goes
on, but ultimately Dawson's predicament proves too dark for their
relationship to hold out. It seems cliché for him to cut if off while
in jail, but isn't that what we saw in The Hurricane (1999) and other
great films? This is a film about love, and the sacrifice that Dawson
makes is really believable considering that. After taking separate
paths, both characters have to deal with that regret and questions of
"what if?"

The issue of casting is one that shouldn't be ignored, but one that
can't rightly be criticized too much in the case of Marsden. The late
Paul Walker, the original choice for Adult Dawson, would have bared
more resemblance to Bracey, but we can't fault Marsden or anyone
working on this film for having to deal with that circumstance. Marsden
pulls it off in the end. Does he do it as well as Walker would have? We
may never know, and it's pretty disrespectful to even ask the question,
as many reviewers are doing. This film is what it is. 

The end (spoilers ahead) really tripped me up. Yes, it's so cliché that
I couldn't believe it for a minute, but this film is about coincidences
and fate, so after considering that, it's not fair to judge it based on
statistics. This is a realm that crosses from the sordid into the
miraculous. But really - and this is something I didn't even notice
until after walking out of the theater - what really tested the limits
of this genre was that this wasn't a happy ending. It was a bittersweet
and somewhat cheesy ending, sure, but it wasn't happy. They don't end
up together. The last notes are in a way quite comforting, but
unresolved. Maybe some people don't like that, but I sure did. What
happens to Amanda's son? Yes, he lives, but how does he feel about his
parents' divorce? Did they even divorce? What happens to Aaron? And, by
the way, Robby Rasmussen deserves a damned Oscar for playing two
characters so well. What about Amanda? We aren't sure if she ever
really moves on. What are her regrets? Does she have any regrets left
at all, or maybe a whole new set of regrets?

This film takes some getting used to and some further consideration
beyond what's happening on the surface. On the surface, it's just
another Romance, but it takes a little more thought. For being so
panned for its formulaic nature, this film challenged a lot conventions
not only followed by Sparks, but by the whole genre of Romance. It's
interesting, to say the very least, and is well worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Following an explosion on his oil rig, Dawson (James Marsden) has a
glimpse of the girl he loved from his teenage years. Elsewhere, Amanda
(Michelle Monaghan) is home with her alcoholic husband and teenage son,
wondering what went wrong in her life and thinking of her first true
love. When the news that their old friend Tuck (Gerald McRaney) has
passed away, Dawson and Amanda are reunited and assigned to spread
Tuck's ashes. As well as confront the ghosts of their past from their
youth. 

The film is an adaptation of the Nicholas Sparks novel of the same
name. While I personally wasn't a huge fan of the novel, I found the
film to be much better. The love story and history of the two lead
characters and fleshed out more, as was the character of Tuck. While it
did feature some major differences in the last act, it worked well.
That aside, as a film, it is a very sweet love story (not as great as
some of Sparks' prior films however). As we watch the story unfold
between Amanda and Dawson as adults, we are given flashbacks to them as
teenagers (played by Luke Bracey and Liana Liberato), which leads to
where they find themselves today. Bracey and Liberato provide great
performances as the younger Dawson and Amanda, they're great on their
own, and have great chemistry to where we really buy them as couple.
Bracey plays Younger Dawson with charm and innocence. Liberato shines
as Younger Amanda. We initially see her as this pretty and bubbly girl,
but she has an edge to her that Liberato shows off flawlessly. James
Marsden and Michelle Monaghan play the older versions of the two
characters. While the chemistry isn't nearly as concrete as the younger
versions, we do get a decent feel of a relationship between the two. On
their own, Monaghan gives the better performance of the two as a woman
torn between the life of her past and the life she currently has.
Marsden's performance, while not terrible, is hardly note-worthy. He
definitely could have given more heart into the role as opposed to
charm. One of the most note-worthy performances of the film however is
Gerald McRaney as Tuck from the couple's younger years. We first see
him as a hard-ass old man, but he grows to show his heart when these
two teens come into his life. McRaney provides the most humor and heart
in the story and easily becomes the most likable character in the
movie. Like most Nicholas Sparks movies, it will only appeal to certain
crowds. It has its really cheesy moments, but deep down there is a lot
to its core, apart from dealing with love, it deals with life in
general and where it takes us and where we can go from there.

The Best of Me features decent to solid performances with heart-felt
and tear-jerking moments. However in the long run it doesn't set itself
too far apart from the Nicholas Sparks formula.

My Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I thought it was a wonderful movie! It was extremely sad but
I thought it sends a great message. Even though I was very upset about
how it ended after everything Amanda and Dawson had gone through. From
being together even after their struggles with family and then losing
each other, but then finding each other again, and then losing each
other again. It was very difficult for my mom and I to keep our
emotions in check. We both couldn't stop crying. But we are both very
empathetic people, so I wouldn't expect anything less. It was still a
great movie! I love the two main actors and it was great seeing some
new actors on screen as well. I have never felt so touched and
compelled by a story as much as The Best of Me from Nicholas Sparks! I
feel that his books are usually about Life, Love, and Loss. I feel like
that is what life is all about. I will be watching it again and reading
the book! Thanks for a wonderful movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Good romantic films are almost as rare as good comedies. I really did
not ask for anything special, as I like "chick flicks" and Hollywood
has such a love affair with action movies, Hollywood has almost stopped
making them. Nonetheless, I really disliked this one; because, even
with the clichés, this movie had so much promise. The movie opens with
a fine action sequence; and James Marsden is a really watchable actor.
However, as soon as the parallel love stories begin, the movie falls
apart. First of all "young Amanda" (Liana Liberato) not only does not
look much like "older Amanda" (Michelle Monaghan), their body languages
and acting styles are completely different. There is even a bigger
disparity with "young Dawson" (Luke Bracey) and "older Dawson" (James
Marsden). Thanks to terrific performances by Liana Liberato and Gerald
McRaney, the flashback sequences are much more entertaining than the
present sequences, even though Michael Hoffman's direction is much
better in the present sequences. Hoffman shoots WAY too many of the
flashback sequences as medium shots, when closeups would have been far
better. Even the ending seems tacked on and trite.

Except for Liana Liberato and Gerald McRaney, "The Best of Me" is
anything but. I give "The Best of Me" a "5".
<|_=00=_|>
The movie takes a direction for a happy ending, somehow they decided to
change everything at the end with a new drama taken out of a hat. don't
waste your time, not a good movie.

There were a thousand possible outcomes for the story, with twists and
changes, instead they opted for the saddest possible story which seems
pushed and not in sync with the first 80 minutes of movie.

The acting was so-so and they seem to fill a lot of time with
information not important to the ending, they could have used that time
to support their sad ending by relating the audience to the story
behind the kid
<|_=00=_|>
... which may not necessarily be a good thing.

Oddly, you divide the two almost at the midway point, that is, the one
hour mark.

The first movie is a really sweet love story about lost love. It
features a lot of flashbacks but luckily the actors playing the
flashbacks and the actors playing 'real time' are all very competent,
do a great job,the script works well, and the audience has a fun ride.

If the first hour were a movie on its own, I would give it a very
strong rating.

However almost at the turn of the second hour (two hours BTW is much
too long for this story) the connection between audience and viewer
(this important factor discussed in many of my IMDb reviews) starts to
fade as many story complications set in. And the script becomes lost in
the various arcs.

I will not go into the complications but let me say that by the
"climax" of the last Act the viewer may wonder if he/she dozed off and
woke up in front of the TV watching an episode of JUSTIFIED. Enough
said.

If the second hour were a movie on its own, I would give it a very low
rating.

As an entire movie as it now stands, this film can be a rough ride for
the viewer, and that is not a good thing.

Notes: 

* always happy to see Michelle Monaghan, an actress under-used these
days. Real star quality.

* Liana Liberato has a nice career ahead and better still actually
looks like a young Michelle Monaghan, which is more than I can say of
the casting choices for the male leads 

* here is a tip for casting directors. FACIAL RECOGNITION SOFTWARE.
Help you avoid the problem of casting two actors playing the same role
(one in flashback) WHO LOOK NOTHING AT ALL LIKE EACH OTHER
<|_=00=_|>
This had all the makings of a love story that could touch many people
with nice performances all around. So why not have a happy ending and
insure a much bigger box office? The story unfolded in flash back and
present day rotation. It told the story of pair of star crossed lovers
who through circumstance broke up and went their separate ways only to
reunited 20 years later.

The present day leads, the versatile James Marsden and the lovely
Michelle Monaghan turn in deeply moving performance from a sentimental
screenplay...one that could have played out nicely with the lovers
living happily ever after. That wasn't to be and although there was an
attempt to put a brave face on the ending, it wasn't what people
wanted.

Also,Luke Bracey, who plays the younger lead, looks as old as Marsden
and a bit taller.
<|_=00=_|>
I believe all of Nicholas Sparks's movies are based on his
books/novels, and they mostly center around Romance, Passion, and
Tragedy. Sparks must be running out of ideas because to sum it up, "The
Best of Me" was wayyyyyy to long, very predictable, and monotone to the
point that it was listless.

Due to the fact this movie was so drawn out, I had such a lack of
interest, that while I was watching it, I was thinking about all sorts
of things, like what I'm going to do the next day, what to pick up at
the store. The producers dragged out the flashback scenes in a way that
you had no idea as far as the direction of this movie. There was no
correlation regarding the younger lead male character and that person
twenty years later.

The ending: Even though I was half concentrating on this movie, I still
predicted the outcome regarding the conclusion.

Nicholas Sparks has had some great movies "The Notebook", "A Walk to
Remember", Dear John", but I would recommend taking a pass regarding
"The Best of Me".
