
Let me first note that I am an avid movie-goer, but not a reader of the
books. I did, however, watch the first two Hunger Games movies and was
pleasantly surprised by them. They kept my attention, with plot and
performances intriguing and action-packed enough to get from one scene
to the next without a dull moment.

This latest installment is the exact opposite. The movie opens with
some melodramatic scenes where Katniss (JLaw) suffers from previous
trauma, then scene after scene just keeps rehashing the same weepy look
on her face partnered with some sentimental background music. "Remember
how President Snow tried to kill everyone in our district? Sniff."
followed by "How could he do this again in this district? Sniff." then
"Why is he doing this to my friends? Sniff." over and over until the
end. Imagine that for 2 hours. That is essentially this movie.

Other scenes later on are just variations of the same - different
scenery (a town in ruins, a mountain lake, a bomb shelter), different
characters to ruminate with (the old flame Gale, old allies like
Finnick and new ones like the District 13 folks, the sister Prim) - but
they essentially are the same scene. I really wanted to tell the
director the whole time: "Ok I get it, they are all angry and hurt. Now
what? Please advance the story." I understand this treatment is
beneficial at the start to provide some exposition on how the
characters are brewing in their discontent and how it all boils over
later on, but that's also what the first two movies already
established. To fill 2 hours of the supposedly climactic final chapter
with further exposition is just too much, perhaps unless you truly are
a solid fan and have the patience to wait it out.

There was one final part in this movie that was intended to be a climax
of sorts before the cliffhanger. It's the only scene that promises some
sort of cathartic, action-packed sequence, but they skip the meat and
flash-forward until after the event concludes.

There were, however, some good scenes of rebels rousing here and there
that were quite entertaining even if they were also just more
exposition fodder. At least they reminded me to wake up from time to
time.

I think this is the unfortunate fault of the cash-grab strategy of
trying to split the last book into two parts. The movie just feels so
out of place with regards to momentum, which was a very positive thing
going for the storyline in the first two movies. Even though Catching
Fire was essentially just going back to the Hunger Games, it still felt
fast and different enough to keep me tuned in. This movie managed to
rehash itself endlessly and leave me feeling like nothing of gravity
happened after my viewing experience... and it tried so hard to make me
care via the melodrama, yet I am left unsold.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me say it right now; I hated this movie. It was bad. Look, the
concept of a film being cut into two parts just does not work. The
whole thing felt like a two-hour exposition. The first 30 minutes were
so damn boring I literally could not stop getting out of focus and
moving uncomfortably in my seat. There really isn't anything special
going on as it progresses, too. There is war going on, but they do not
really show it and it doesn't suck you in. It's very slow paced with
lots of teenage drama and not a lot of "games" or "hunger" as in the
previous films (which I liked, by the way). And now there's Jennifer
Lawrence's acting, which was trying too hard (while making lots of
weird facial expressions that made me laugh at inappropriate moments).
Overall, I think the idea of splitting a movie into two parts; thus
making the first half boring, isn't a very good one. And in this case
"not very good" is a compliment. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard the term "set-up movie" before today. There has
definitely been a trend of splitting up a story into multiple movies.
These movies don't have a beginning-middle-end the same way other
movies do but at the very least there's some progress. 

The problem with the Mockingjay Pt 1 is not that it's boring or poorly
made. In fact, there is a lot of excitement in this movie. The problem
is that from beginning to end there is hardly anything that changes. If
you look at where the characters are in the beginning and where they
are in the end there isn't much that's changed except for what happens
in the very end. Katniss has been doing things but we haven't seen much
of the effects of her actions.

I didn't dislike this movie that much despite it's slow beginning. I
just can't give this my seal of approval when I left the theater
feeling like I saw half a movie. By the time the story gets its payoff
my memory of this movie will be worn-off.
<|_=00=_|>
Like watching paint dry. Boring to a mind-numbing degree. How many
times can we see Katniss be horrified and/or emotionally distraught?
Maybe the filmmakers thought they were adding depth to their
characters. Well, they were wrong. Instead we, the audience, sit
through one scene after another in which really nothing happens at all.
This whole thing could have easily been compressed down to 40 minutes
and then we could have had the rest of the book as the rest of the
film. This felt very much like they were stretching it out so they
could make two movies - which is the new thing to do in Hollywood with
these franchises. Not good storytelling.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 stars Jennifer Lawrence, Josh
Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Woody Harrelson, Donald Sutherland,Philip
Seymour Hoffman, and Julianne Moore. Just to get something straight I
feel splitting a movie into two parts is dumb and studios do it just
for more money and I find it irritating. Not every finale of a young
adult novel needs to be two parts. That being said "How is Mockingjay
part 1? " Is it a big step up from Catching fire? Frankly its pretty
boring and basically a huge waste of time. Nothing really interesting
happens in this movie. Bonding moments that don't need to happen
between characters that feel pretty forced. Some dialogue and extra
propaganda speeches to make the run time just a little bit longer. More
characters that were throw in your face with really no character
development at all. Katniss doesn't grow as a character from the last
movie. Besides shooting an arrow at a jet which is shown in the trailer
all Katniss really does is Propaganda Commercials and cry over things.
Also all of the other characters that you already know you don't really
care about them at all throughout this movie either. Really the only
person you care about is Katniss kinda. Shaky cam has made a return
from the first movie and isn't that why the change of director happened
for the second movie? Wasn't the point to get rid of all that? I guess
not. A couple of cool moments happen but that doesn't really help much.
I mean the best parts of this movie were promoted in the trailer. Don't
get me wrong this isn't an awful movie it's more of a very long trailer
for Mockingjay part 2. What I did enjoy was all of the propaganda parts
which was a nice change from all the killing in the first two movies
and the last 15 minutes. A camera crew follows Katniss around to make
propaganda commercials and then the capitol will fire back with their
own propaganda stuff. It's a political fight. Honestly the propaganda
concepts was really the only thing keeping me awake. I have to be
honest I started to dose off a couple of times. The last 15 minutes it
starts to build up and things start going down that makes it feel like
the actual movie is fixing to start and it just ends. Kind of in the
way The Desolation of Smaug did as well. Now you have to wait another
year for the movie that you wanted to see in the first place. In the
end i was really bored throughout this movie. This is just a waste of
time to get more money out of the franchise. Even if your a fan of the
novel wait till next November to see this movie so you can go see part
2 right after and pretend like part 1 doesn't exist.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so disappointed of the movie. And that's because there happens
close to nothing. At nearly every point you notice it's stretched for
making out of one book two movies. At the beginning I liked it, because
many parts of the book found their way into the movie. But I realised
transferring the story of a book 1:1 into a movie isn't that good.

(NO SPOILER) As an example they need about 5-10 minutes just to go down
a staircase, back upwards because "missing" something and down again.
And nothing really happens. All the time absolutely no excitement rose
in me and I just got bored. And I am pretty sure this should be a part
where your heartbeat is meant to been rising.

Sure there are some nice and decent scenes but most of the stuff is
just lame. In the book it works but clearly not in the Movie (plus the
showdown of the book is missing because of the split).

But at least I enjoyed the screenplay of Josh Hutcherson and Philip
Seymour Hoffman, which lifted the Movie "up" to 3 Stars. I hope the
last one gets back on the level of the first two movies.
<|_=00=_|>
It appears I'm in a minority here, because I actually liked
'Mockingjay: Part 1'. Now bear with me for a moment before you rip this
review to shreds and please at least hear (or read) me out.

I do absolutely acknowledge that unlike the two previous films,
'Mockingjay: Part 1' doesn't feel like a complete film; it is
practically all build-up and doesn't have a proper ending, and I agree
that splitting the last book into two films was an inherently stupid,
purely greed-driven decision by the studio. Also, due to that idiotic
split of the last chapter, the film is largely deprived of the
action/adventure elements that so many fans loved in the first two
films, which must be especially disappointing to non-book-readers who
didn't expect such a drastic change in tone. But if we ignore its most
obvious flaws for a moment, the film has actually quite a few things
going for it.

For instance, it offers a surprisingly realistic portrayal of a
totalitarian society on the brink of an all-out civil war, and unlike
other Hollywood adaptations of such tales, it dares to put the emphasis
on the human drama instead of the special effects. And it remains
faithful to the book: it would have been fairly easy to invent a couple
of heroic battle scenes to amp up the spectacle (Hollywood is notorious
for such disregard of source material - and such disregard for the
fans), and I must say I appreciated the film precisely because of its
NOT solely action-driven narrative.

But the most impressive aspect about 'Mockingjay: Part 1' is how
layered it actually is. This is not the good-against-evil story of the
first two films anymore: this is a really smart study on how propaganda
works and how one fascist system is about to be replaced - albeit with
the best intentions - by another. This kind of moral ambiguity (and
again: faithfulness to the novel) is not what we usually get in
blockbusters aimed at teenagers, and for that alone the film deserves
some credit.

Also, what the film does masterfully, is showing how Katniss transforms
upon the devastating realization that she has helped - or has been
instrumentalised - to set a process in motion that she can neither stop
nor control, a process which has already led to a terrible loss of
human life for which she now feels responsible. She is torn apart by
inner conflict because her hate for Snow and everything he stands for
is bigger than ever - yet at same time, it begins to dawn on her that
the leaders of the rebellion employ methods which don't seem to be all
that different. The lines between what is morally acceptable and what
is not start to blur. A very wise person once said: "War makes fascists
of us all" - I believe 'Mockingjay: Part 1' does an excellent job at
getting that point across.

Unlike in most popcorn movies, there are no mere black and white
characters here (well, except maybe for Snow); instead, we get a story
that - for once - hasn't been dumbed down and functions as a sincere
exploration of an escalating civil war that threatens to consume
everyone. And unlike most YA adaptations, the film doesn't shy away
from showing what that means: the audience is left in no doubt about
the human toll this revolution will take in the end.

Maybe the current situation in countries like Syria after the initially
peaceful revolution that was the Arab Spring made this film resonate
more with me than it should have, but I was surprised at how un-
Hollywood-like this was done. And I can't stress this enough: Jennifer
Lawrence MAKES this film; the whole franchise, really. The emotional
intensity she brings to Katniss feels so real; it's the kind of
performance that, in this kind of film, sadly often gets overlooked,
but I sincerely doubt a better Katniss could ever have been found.

So my final verdict on the film: 'Mockingjay: Part 1' offers
intelligent entertainment that doesn't solely rely on special effects
and one mindless action scene after another. It's a fitting
continuation of Katniss' journey, but - and that is the one serious
downside to this film - it doesn't lead that journey to its logical
conclusion. That the studio wants you to pay once more to see how the
journey ends may be understandable from a financial standpoint, but it
is a major flaw in the storytelling of an otherwise very good film.
Likewise, the final chapter in the series (Mockingjay: Part 2) will
likely suffer from having to do without all the dramatic build-up that
Part 1 offers. 

Still, there is a lot to like in this film and it is far from the
boring mess so many reviews made it out to be: 7 stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/
<|_=00=_|>
Great acting from the cast; especially Jennifer Lawrence, the
characters were as believable and entertaining as they were in previous
films, this is pretty much the highlight of the film.

The plot however was dull and uneventful, as in nothing really went
anywhere. in the majority of the film there was no tension; for the
most part it was basically "stuff happens in a bunker for 2 hours: The
Movie." which is super disappointing because although I haven't read
the books; I'm told by people that have that they skipped a bunch of
the action and downplayed the apparent love triangle.

If you wanted an action packed flick like the first two or you are the
type of fan who doesn't like stuff in the book to be left out, you will
be sorely disappointed as this is clearly a filler movie to get some
extra $$$ before the series ends.

wait for DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The screenwriter team for this movie was obviously under pressure to
extend beyond reason the simplistic narrative of this movie. The
result: over two hours of acting without substance. I cannot complain
about the actors, for they did what they were paid to do, but COME ON,
did it have to be so melodramatic and empty? Emotions are simply not
credible, and only inspire scorn.

I want my money back. I want my time back. What a waste of effort to
extend this film beyond one installment. Had they compacted the movie
in 1 hour, then probably all the bad cinematography would have been
eliminated.

Sure producers will make a profit at the expense of unsuspected viewers
and several (perhaps demolishing) hits on actors careers. I will NOT
view the last installment. I refuse to give my money away for nothing.

The saddest part is that this movie could have been great. The acting
talent was there. Technical resources were available. But he most
inexpensive part of the production was neglected beyond belief:
storytelling. The screenwriters in this movie are not idiots. It is
obvious that artificial constraints were placed to extend the story to
two parts.

SAVE YOUR TIME, SAVE YOUR MONEY, DO NOT WATCH THIS BAD, BAD MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was extremely dull and boring. You could probably skip
watching this movie in the series and you wouldn't miss much. The story
was dragged out so much that I found myself shifting in my seat and
just waiting for it to end.

The acting was especially bad and I was cringing at the amount of
cliché lines. My friends and I were also really surprised by such a
lack of chemistry between Katniss and Peta; their relationship is so
forced and I had difficultly even caring about the characters because
they are so underdeveloped. So many scenes were completely unnecessary;
they added nothing to the story and were just there to take up time.
Mockingjay was extremely disappointing even though I went in with low
expectations. 2/10, would not recommend.
