
I believe this movie would have been a master piece of a series due to 
the huge amount of event packed into 2 hours, but this is no criticism 
on how great the movie is and how the numbers of this site doesn't do 
it justice. 90% of the negative reviews comes under the lame excuse of 
"that's not how king Arthur is supposed to be". If you actually want a 
movie where you know everything already starting from the story, 
characters and twists then I'd call you the stupidest ever. Yes this 
isn't your typical king Arthur movie, and that adds even more to the 
awesomeness of it.amnt saying the movie is flawless, no movie is, but 
it was great starting from acting, animation, story, music tracks, 
everything. Again would have been better off it was a series and I 
hope there would be a sequel including the knights of the round table, 
sure Lancelot and some dramatic betrayal or even Arthur's betrayal 
himself to the kingdom.
<|_=00=_|>
Will keep it short and simple. If you don't get/understand the
(British) humour (i.e you don't think the jokes are funny), dialogue
and fast "flashbacky" editing style presented in Lock Stock and Snatch,
you will hate this movie. Easy as that. For us who understand what
constitutes a Ritchie movie will be more likely than not, like the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, this is one heck of a movie. I was overwhelmed with some of the
scenes, especially the fighting scenes in the beginning, the middle and
also in the end. There was a wonderful opening credit scene which I
felt was very awesome. It lasted probably only 5 minutes but it really
impressed me. And, the movie also had some brief parts which were fun
to see, like the scene when Arthur was telling the story about the
Vikings. Out of the whole fighting scenes, the one that I enjoyed most
was in the middle which I felt was rather breathtaking and having an
ultimate amazing ending.

Apart from the cool action sequences, the movie also had some dramatic
moments and surprises. I really think that the way Guy Ritchie directed
this movie made it very enjoyable. I did feel some similarities with
other movies that he directed like the 2009 Sherlock Holmes movie and
its sequel Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows in 2011, especially in
the part of using pieces of flash backs to explain something.

I think the special effects to the movie was very good, which should
not be a surprise considering it has a USD 175 million budget. My only
worry is with such hefty budget, it may not be having a large profit
since the movie itself might not appeal to some hardline fans of the
folklore of King Arthur, Excalibur, mages and so on, due to the rather
unusual way of story telling. Some people might also feel that the
movie lacks the cruelty & violence of a medieval era war kind of movie
such as Kingdom of Heaven or Game of Thrones TV series. For my personal
view though, this movie was just nice since its attraction is certainly
on the way the story being told, and again, its fighting sequence. 

The sound effects of the movie were very good. Some background music
truly gave extra sense of suspense or sadness and so on. The duration
of 2 hours was just perfect to me, and I honestly felt there was no
dull moment. There was no post-credit scene for you to wait, except if
you enjoy listening to the soundtrack song & music. Before I forgot,
there was a cameo appearance of the popular soccer player David
Beckham. Let's see if you noticed him.

So for those who want to enjoy a nice action adventure film in the
medieval period with some sword and sorcery plus the background of King
Arthur with the knights of the round table, then you would definitely
enjoy this one (especially if you are a fan of Guy Ritchie's works).
Now if you are not a fan of this kind of movie or you prefer a more
bloody/violent movie, then perhaps this one would be a bit soft.

For my complete review, pls have a look at
michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
<|_=00=_|>
The true test of a fantastic movie is when you get immersed in it. When
the show grabs your attention at the onset and keeps you interested the
entire time. Your mind doesn't wander about anything else but whats
happening on the silver screen. And that is precisely what this movie
does. Loved the beginning with the fantasy action. Immediately
developed a dislike for the villain well played by Law. Charlie Hunnam
had the presence and moxie to carry the lead role for the first time.
Most characters were very well developed and the story line was tight.
Really enjoyed the soundtrack too. Entertainment at its finest.

Don't let the critics on Rotten Tomatoes fool you. The critic score was
27%, but the audience gave it a 77 %. Sadly the critics only want to
give a movie a great rating when there's an oppressed group wronged,
and this movie is not that.

Here's to hoping there's a King Arthur II - Knights of the Round Table
<|_=00=_|>
OK I'm just gonna say it. This contains "spoilers" but honestly.. there
just isn't much to spoil in the first place. But here we go...

-------------------------------------------------------'

First of all lets talk about the first 10 minutes of the movie and the
trailer. To be honest i loved the first minutes of the movie but that's
just because most of the cool things you see in the trailer happen in
the first 10 minutes. The movie starts off by giving you the impression
that this movie is gonna have a huge war in it with mystical creatures
(in this scenario it was elephants the size of Manhattan skyscrapers)
and thousands of soldiers fighting and warlocks and a bunch of cool
s#!t like that. But after those first 10 minutes the typical Guy Richie
comes in and everything is downhill from there...

Now we all know the movies the director is famous for.. snatch, lock
stock, Sherlock Holmes. These movies are fast paced with fun dialogue
and fantastic storytelling that suits those movies just fine. With this
movie it just somehow doesn't fit. When you think about King Arthur u
think about noblemen and heroics and fighting for the little man. Now
there are some moments in the movie where Arthur shows he cares about
someone other than himself and has a chance to me humble but then it
gets ruined because Guy Ritchie needs his characters to be funny and
"know it all-y" (not a word I know but..).

Not lets talk about the other characters. After seeing the movie I
don't actually know the name of any other character other than Arthur.
Because you just didn't give a s#!t. If every character that had been
introduced (even though there where practically no introductions for
any of them) had been killed at some point in the movie I wouldn't have
cared because you never got a chance to get to know them at all. Not
that these characters were interesting at all to begin with. Very flat
and boring characters. Bad acting and very bat material. 

Which brings me to the script. The script itself was very bad as well.
An example. One of Arthurs friends is laying on the floor in a
building. The guys son comes in and pretends to work there. The king
puts a knife to the throat of Arthurs friend. Arthur comes in and puts
a knife to the throat of one of the soldiers in the kings army. Arthur
is standing in the doorway and the kid is there with him. Arthur has a
knife to the soldiers throat because the king has a knife to his
friends throat. The king then slits his friends throat... and Arthur
lets the soldier go? Why? It makes now sense at all. Another thing,
every single "action" scene in this movie, and there are very few of
those, are cut short by editing or just plain and simple very bad
directing by Guy Ritchie. The camera angle and everything is just s#!t
almost every single time. Everything interesting in this movie is cut
short because of s#!tty directing.

There is a moment in the movie where Arthur has to go to the shadow
lands, or some s#!t like that (i don't remember the name), to... well i
don't know why exactly it was but i recall it being about him
connecting better to the sword or something. Anyway he goes to she
shadow lands and its like a big deal that he is going there because its
supposedly very dangerous. He goes there and the director gives us
about a minute to see all the amazing creatures Arthur fought, now mind
you.. we don't actually see him fighting any of them, he just shows us
clips and cuts and then in one minute hes back from the dreadful shadow
lands and we saw nothing of it and he is no closer to the sword than he
was when he went in there...

I can write for another hour but in conclusion the best thing about the
movie is Eric Bana and he dies after 5 minutes so...

Worst movie iv'e seen of the year.

ps. And you can't have a king Arthur film without Merlin.. I mean what
is that?
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at a Promo Screening last night and have been shocked by the
harsh reviews from the critics.

I went in expecting to see a by-the-numbers generic fantasy like the
ones Disney churns out regularly. But instead I was surprised to find
that Guy Ritchie has applied to King Arthur the same style and
technique that made his Sherlock Holmes films so beloved.

In this film is the witty dialogue and creative editing we've (at least
some of us) have come to love from Guy Ritchie. There was never a
boring scene throughout. The action is good, the effects are good, but
it is the manner of delivery of it all that brings this to greatness.

The acting is solid, some characters are less developed than others but
I did not feel that this hurt the movie at all. 

I've seen King Arthur movies before but have never seen it told in this
manner, it is to King Arthur what Batman Begins was to Batman.

Should you see it? If you did not enjoy Guy Ritchie's other works,
especially the Sherlock Holmes films then you may have issues with his
style, but if you were entertained by any of his other films then there
should be no reason for you to not be entertained here also.
<|_=00=_|>
There are very little redeeming qualities about this mess of a film,
and it really is a mess. If I had to walk away with a positive though,
I would say the music was pretty good for the most part. 

So where to start.

The acting from Charlie Hunnam (I loved him as Jax Teller) is
laughable. Almost as laughable with how "pretty" he was in one of the
final fight sequences of the film even though he had just taken a
pasting. He is so wooden, so unbelievable that it is hard to take him
seriously or believe anyone would follow him. It helps then that the
rest of the acting is shoddy too. The female mage is so flat she may as
well be horizontal. David Beckham's cameo is out of place and painful
and... Well what did you expect when they saw fit to employ "Denny from
Eastenders"? The lad can't act in the soap, let alone a movie. Any time
a soap actor appears in a "blockbuster" I get that sinking feeling...
Let's not forget that Charlie started in Byker Grove though but we
can't hold that against him. We can hold this film against him.

Jude Law was decent enough, stepping away from his usual type of
character. One of the only characters you could believe in but one
you're not supposed to like. The problem being, as he is the only
believable character in the film - you can't help but root for him.

The rest of the performances were paint by numbers, collecting a pay
check and if this was the best Guy Ritchie could get from them -
perhaps he isn't fit for being a director? And - to be fair - he
probably isn't. At least, this type of film. He nailed Snatch and Lock,
Stock - that much is a given and there are traces of that directorial
style in this film (characters recalling stories and flitting between
them talking and flash back sequences for example) but the problem is -
it felt forced and out of place here. Put with that the fact Guy simply
cannot direct action - you have a problem. It felt like two films. One
film where you can get suckered in with the stories the characters are
telling and the other, you're wishing your life away watching rubbish
CGI, limp acting and a muddled mess of a fight sequence. Seriously -
why so many slow motion shots of Charlie cutting through wood?!

In one scene where he uses the sword, it happened so fast that I still
don't really know what happened. And the fight at the end? I still
don't know who hit who for the best part of it. Although, given how
pristine Charlie looked afterwards, I am guessing he had time to pop
off to a spa whilst the Big Bad fought alone. 

The script is as much to blame as the cast and crew though. It's a
mess, jumbled up with too many dialogue sections spliced with
flashbacks that aren't necessary. For this kind of film - perhaps a
more linear story would have made more sense? As mentioned above, it
felt like a film of two halves because of the constant jumping back and
forth and switching to medieval sword play. It was also trying to be
funny when that too missed the mark. The audience laughed a couple of
times (a couple more than myself) but that was it. 

This is the first time I have stepped from a Guy Ritchie film and felt
such bitter disappointment. Had this been someone's first film, I doubt
they would ever work again.
<|_=00=_|>
I made it through twenty minutes. It has possibly the worst video
editing that I've ever seen in a film in my life. I didn't even know
what I was watching sometimes during those twenty minutes. They cut
from one meaningless thing to another like it was vital to a story
element when, in fact, it was just a supposedly cool "Suicide Squad"
style sequence. It also had two video montages during those twenty
minutes, which was intolerable, partly because they were done in the
same frantic and headache-inducing manner that the regular cuts were
shot in.

There was a battle in which the evil mages that were seizing power were
apparently casting spells from the tops of gigantic elephants, but we
never saw them actually wielding magic. We just saw people being blown
back by explosions. In the meantime, they just showed the mages'
glowing eyes. So when Eric Bana's character beheaded the main mage
(which ALSO wasn't even shown) it makes it all the more meaningless.

At one point, in one of the worst examples of foreshadowing (if it can
even be called such) that I've ever seen in a film, someone reminds a
group that Jude Law's character studied with the evil mages. His
response: "What are you implying?" Smash cut to Jude performing an evil
ritual whereby he became the new king. Aaaaaaand someone please kill
me.

When it finally got around to Charlie Humman taking over the main rebel
role, I couldn't have cared less. As other people have noted, he is
dead-faced and expressionless. I couldn't have cared less if he
regained his family's power.

I'm going to go with two stars just because the tentacled demon
creature with three women that Jude worships was one creepy positive in
this dumpster fire.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched without checking the trailer so I didn't know what to expect.
The legend and the concept itself has been done and overdone countless
times so I actually appreciated a more 'hero journey' type of view into
the story line. The last fight was however lacking and somehow
decreased the pace the action had reached.

I appreciated that the story didn't have a deux ex machina type of
solution to political issues so I was pleasantly surprised that
Arthur's problems actually started when he got the power.

Loved Jude Law's acting more than the protagonist's. Totally disliked
the Mage's acting, it felt like I was watching a model trying to look
fierce.

I would give 10/10 for the AMAZING soundtrack and background music,
great pieces, masterfully used.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a dreadful film. It is purely a badly done cgi movie. The
graphics were fuzzy and featured third rate monsters that have all had
parts in other films.Worse the cgi action did not look realistic and
this added to the overall failure.

Apart from the fuzzy graphics the story was an abomination and an
insult to the memory of King Arthur. There was very little story and
the characters acted in such an unbelievable and clichéd fashion that
you tended to try and forget them as irrelevant to the excessive
computer violence.

If you rate John Boormans's Excalibur as a 10 then this is a 0.0001

There are better ways to spend £125 million
