
I am not sure why this film has received such low reviews. The film
opens up with Mrs. Wattlesbrook (Jane Seymour) holding a fake lamb and
talking about Austenland, which I think greatly sets the tone for what
type of movie this is going to be. Going into the film, I knew it had
received a low score thus lowering my expectations greatly so I wasn't
expecting much. It turns out I didn't need to lower my expectations,
this film totally went over and above.

The critics and everyone leaving a low score have no sense of humor!
It's over the top, exaggerated, hilarious, ridiculous, it's supposed to
be that way! None of it is believable and once you allow yourself to
enter the world of Austenland, you'll enjoy the film. 

The theater possibly has a lot to do with the tone. We had a great
audience, everyone was cracking up, loud uproars in all the scenes, it
was hilarious. Miss Elizabeth Charming is hysterical! I really enjoyed
Jennifer Coolidge's performance, she really did her usual thing and it
was wonderful. 

Lady Amelia Heartwright, Colonel Andrews, Captain George East all are
so ridiculous and entertaining. The actors all did an amazing job. I
honestly have not laughed that hard in a film in a long time. I'm
talking laugh out loud, bursting, crying, snort kind of laughing. Even
my husband enjoyed himself and found many of the scenes very
entertaining.

I know I haven't talked much about the actual movie but bottom line:
it's HILARIOUS. Go in with an open mind, allow yourself to be silly,
let go of how "unrealistic" it is, and you'll be in for a treat.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this Austenland premiere at Sundance yesterday and I was
thoroughly entertained. While not a completely original romcom premise,
there is enough that is fresh in the storyline to keep you engaged, and
at one point even with a whodunit flair.

Director Jerusha Hess (co-writer of Napoleon Dynamite) has a really
remarkable debut. The movie is smart, funny and paces nicely. Keri
Russell is at her girl-next-door best, but Jennifer Coolidge feels like
she has been cut loose to reveal her outrageous, campy silliness in all
its splendor, and Brett McKenzie (of Flight of the Conchords fame) is
surprisingly believable and impossible not to like as mostly a straight
man. I expect this performance will catapult McKenzie's acting career.
Other cast members, including J.J. Field and Jane Seymour, are solid. 

Most of the cast was at the premiere and came on stage for the Q&A. Now
many casts at Sundance say they enjoyed making the movie, but you could
tell there was something different with this group. They sounded like
the REALLY HAD FUN. McKenzie was hilarious live (something few actors
are) and I only wish Coolidge had been there. Their enthusiasm was
certainly buoyed by just having seen the movie for the first time and
I'm sure being surprised by how well it turned out. But also, quite a
credit to Hess to create an environment where good spirits flow. The
positive energy definitely found its way to the screen.

I had the good fortune to run into Jerusha Hess in the parking lot
afterward. She seems like a very genuine and engaging woman. I expect
she will be highly sought-after from here out. A new Nora Ephron. In
fact, there was something about this movie that reminded me a little of
Mixed Nuts.
<|_=00=_|>
Jane Hayes (Keri Russell) has been most unfortunate in love. Her
boyfriends up to this moment have left her cold to romance. Perhaps, it
might be observed, Jane is rather selective in her search, for she is
looking for the second coming of Mr. Darcy. A fan of Austen since she
was thirteen, her small apartment is decorated in the Empire fashion,
with a large cutout of Colin Firth in his role as Darcy. So, when a
former flame comes to her place of work, telling her that he is her
last, best hope, Jane hatches a desperate plan. She will sell her car
and use all of her savings to buy a trip to Austenland, a dream
adventure place in jolly old England. When she arrives, flush with
excitement, she gets a small dash of grief. The snobby manager (Jane
Seymour) chides Jane for buying the basic package, gives the American a
plainer room than the other guests, and gives her the moniker Miss
Erstwhile, which Jane instantly dislikes. Nevertheless, the place is
lovely and the actors quite intriguing, especially one, Mr. Nobly (J.J.
Field) who has the Darcy role. Alas, he brushes her off, true to the
book. Thank goodness fellow guest Miss Charming (Jennifer Coolidge)
becomes her bosom friend and provides great comic relief. Yet, when
Jane receives criticism at dinner, she bolts out to the grounds where
she meets someone who turns her head. This is Martin (Bret McKenzie),
hired to take care of the horses and play a servant. Though there is
really no mingling between guests and servants, Martin soon becomes
Jane's special savior time and time again. Could he be the romance she
has waited for all of her life? But, wait, could Mr. Nobly actually be
paying more attention to our Jane? Things are becoming muddled! This
lovely movie will be a joy to Austen's fans and beyond. How many
superhero films have to be released, however, to merit a ladies' flick
like this? Quite a few, Hollywood seems to be saying. Therefore, it is
this viewer's hope that all women will rush to the closest theater to
embrace Austenland in a big way. It has sumptuous costumes, a clever
script, a wonderful setting, a skilled direction and enough references
to the great lady herself to please most everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This was just an all around fun movie. I went to a screening in Chicago
with a friend and we both left the theater smiling from ear to ear. It
was an all around delightful Rom-com. Yes, it was a bit zany and over
the top, but in the best possible way. 

Jennifer Coolidge made me bust out laughing throughout the movie. Keri
Russell, really brought a lot of heart to the character. And I hope to
see JJ Feild in more movies. He had a lot of chemistry with Russell. 

I read the book several years ago and was excited to hear that it was
being adapted into a movie, I am not sure how loyal it was to the book,
but who cares? It was a fun summer movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Disclosure: I really like "Pride & Prejudice" & usually end up enjoying
romantic comedies a ton, despite never wanting to see them ahead of
time.

That said, I went in to this one thinking it sounded good and was
laughing hard throughout. The story is clever, the acting solid,
casting is great and I walked out a huge fan of Jennifer Coolige. omg
seriously, can you get any funnier? Worth seeing the movie for her
alone. Without her it was still really good. Go see this movie. We even
went back and saw it again - I wasn't laughing as much the second time,
but appreciated it and enjoyed it again still.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't written a review on here for ages but after seeing the little
publicised "Austenland" I felt the need to add my views into the pot. I
went to see this with a friend yesterday and was honestly expecting an
overly cheesy and sloppy romantic movie but hey, as an Austen fan
there's nothing wrong with that! However, I was thoroughly impressed
with the movie as it was so funny and well scripted. I actually laughed
out loud all the way through. I have been to West Wycombe where it is
filmed and have read all of Austen's books which of course is an added
bonus but even someone who doesn't know the stories to be able to pick
up the puns, innuendo etc would still appreciate this film as it's so
funny. There are many rubbish comedies produced that have so much PR
and marketing around them I think that it's a shame that a film like
this that is actually really enjoyable will be seen by few as it has
not been promoted. In summary, if you want to see a fun and enjoyable
movie and go expecting humour rather than culture, go see this. It
won't win any Oscars but is an enjoyable 1 1/2 hours :)
<|_=00=_|>
I was roped into a screening of "Austenland" by my well-meaning, Jane
Austen-admiring wife. Ninety-seven minutes later, we left the theater
shaking our heads. Not because we were offended by the idea of someone
making a satirical movie about a modern young woman who was so obsessed
with Jane Austen's milieu that she wanted to live in it, but because
that ship sailed five years ago, in the form of "Lost in Austen" -- a
movie that was everything this film was not.

Had I known in advance that "Austenland" was directed and co-written by
the half-wit half-responsible for "Napoleon Dynamite", I might've
stayed home. If ever comparing two structurally similar films threw
into high relief the shortcomings of one of them, "Lost in Austen" does
it to "Austenland". The latter comes across as a script written in two
weeks by a rather stupid college sophomore as a class project. No line
was too trite, no joke too juvenile, no humor too obvious to not get
the full scenery-chewing treatment here.

Even within the film's internal logic, the protagonist made utterly no
sense. Here's a young woman who is supposedly so obsessed with Austen,
her writing and her virtues that she spends her life savings on an
immersive week in that very environment, yet she caves-in within 24
hours, describes being indoors as "stifling", and is soon making out
with a stablehand! The contempt she displays for Austen's mores is one
more reason the viewer loses any sympathy for her. And honestly, she's
not that special. Take away her obsession with Austen (and the film
effectively does that within the first 20 minutes), and she's just
another vapid college student who dresses like a slob.

Much has been written elsewhere about Jennifer Cooledge, the *other*
American who supposedly paid for a week in "Austenland". I thoroughly
enjoyed her as a minor character in "A Mighty Wind" and "Best in Show",
but in those, she greatly benefited from the writing talents of
Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy. Christopher Guest has had boils that
could write more clever dialogue than Jerusha Hess is capable of. While
I wanted to like Cooledge in this, there was simply no way to get
beyond the fact that her character is the broadest broad who ever trod
the boards.

One gimmick I've come to loathe in recent films was introduced by
Sophia Coppola in "Marie-Antoinette" -- that of interspersing modern
pop songs at length throughout the film. "Marie-Antoinette" somewhat
worked since Coppola used the juxtaposition of modern songs to make the
audience reappraise that late-18th century queen as a modern woman in
modern material culture. "Austenland", on the other hand, just uses pop
songs to tell the audience what it should be feeling at that moment.
Every time this movie is screened, someone in the audience is going to
whisper to their significant other "Hey! Remember when we used to make
out to that Cure song?" -and move a little closer. 

There are exactly three things I could find to like about "Austenland",
for which I gave it one star each. The first is for the setting; West
Wycombe is always lovely. The second is for Bret McKenzie, the roguish
stablehand with a smooth, if improbable line for every occasion (he was
far better, tho', in "Flight of the Conchords"). And the third is for
J.J. Feild, whose earnest and understated performance is a welcome
relief from all of the other in-your-face, turned-up-to-eleven
performances. But ultimately, these three aren't nearly enough to save
"Austenland" from being a mediocre and tiresome attempt at a romantic
comedy. Jane Austen would've shuddered at the thought of such a film
exploiting her name and work.
<|_=00=_|>
Who would vacation in the Bahamas when you could live the 1800 life of
Pride and Predigest characters? Apparently this Jane Austen fan will
spend all her money living the experience straight from Austen's most
classic books. From Jerusha Hess, the co- writer of Napoleon Dynamite
(or should I say the wife of the director), the film begins with Jane
(Keri Russell), a Jane Austen book lover, watching classic romance
movies and planning her week-long trip adventure somewhere in the
United Kingdom to live the Jane Austen life with handsome gentlemen,
romance, and engagements. The only problem is when your fantasies
become reality, Jane finds love is not always the same way in the
books. This movie seems to aim for the book lovers and those of us who
are sick of women who dream of finding their Mr Darcy. The film moves
fast and the audience does not get to know Russel's character, except
for the fact that she loves Jane Austen books. Still, Hess does an
excellent job creating a fun and adventurous comedy for us, not to
mention the performance of Jennifer Coolidge is fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, sorry, wrong movie - or not.

While I was watching Austenland, I could not help but think of
Westworld (1973), about a couple of friends who spend a week in an
adult theme park that get to indulge every fantasy they could only
dream of from the movies or TV. Austenland seems like a place
tailor-made for Delos, only without robots. However, while Westworld
was a clever, but grim satire about man's darker impulses in the
science fiction genre with a message that was consistent from beginning
to end, Austenland is an over-the-top, outrageous spoof in the genre of
romantic comedy that threatened to collapse under the weight of its own
silliness the whole way through.

Keri Russell plays Jane Hayes, a thirty-something single woman obsessed
with all things Jane Austen, especially the 1995 BBC version of Pride
and Prejudice and Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy. Her best friend makes a bet
with her to give up her Austen obsession after Jane's trip to
Austenland. Jane flies to the UK and quickly meets a kindred, if crazy
spirit who was renamed Miss Elizabeth Charming (Jennifer Coolidge).
Because Miss Charming is rich, she gets the luxury of choosing her own
name and being part of the landed gentry and nobility of Austenland.
Jane, being more working class and buying the cheapest travel package,
gets stuck in the servants quarters as "poor with no fortune to speak
of". She doesn't get to choose her own name and is given the surname of
"Erstwhile". You can see right away where this story is going.

I kept getting frustrated with Jane's character because of her
complaints about 19th century life. For a girl so seemingly obsessed
with Austen, she got a rude awakening that the fantasy didn't match the
reality, which I suppose is an integral part of the storyline. There
was one scene where she vowed to take charge of her own destiny
followed by a slow-motion clichéd fashion show/music video montage that
showed her acting like a cross between a wannabe supermodel/seductress
that was going to do things her way, come hell or high water. She came
off as fake, irritating, and inauthentic. I didn't feel much sympathy
or feeling for her; she was not the most warm or fuzzy character, nor
was she as "hot" as the male characters in the movie described her to
be, or had any sort of intelligence to speak of.

Jane is torn choosing between two suitors - randy and rebellious stable
boy Martin (Bret McKenzie) and the stand-in resident Mr. Darcy named
Henry Nobley (JJ Feild). We find out they're both actors at the theme
park and you're never quite sure if there's a real rivalry between the
two men for Jane's affections or if it's all just an act for the
guests' amusement. Austenland does succeed in keeping your suspense
regarding this aspect of the story. If it wasn't for JJ Feild's
understated and even-handed performance amongst all the sheer
craziness, there's no way this film would've succeeded. I also enjoyed
the fun comic relief of Jennifer Coolidge and Jane Seymour as stern and
villainous Mrs. Wattlesbrook, the owner of Austenland. I would've liked
to have seen more of her in the film.

I give the filmmakers props for creativity as the sets and costumes
were very vibrant and colorful, if ostentatious at times. I appreciate
a good spoof or satire as much as the next person, but I felt the noble
message about not living life in a fantasy and enjoying the reality of
your own existence was lost until the very end. By then it was too late
to really root for Jane. I wanted to root for her the whole way
through, but I felt it was 95% spoof and 5% deeper meaning, when it
should've been the other way around. The pop songs played as part of
the movie's soundtrack was distracting and annoying.

I'm really being kind to give it 5 stars. It should be less, but I feel
the filmmakers had the most honest intentions for this film. It wasn't
what I expected it to be and it could've been so much more. I'll just
stick with the original Austen books and regular film adaptations till
someone comes up with a more clever and subtle Austen-themed comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this film. It's a nice idea -- take a young American
woman named Jane who is obsessed with Jane Austen's England, and put
her in a reality holiday experience in the English countryside, set in
Austen's era. But the movie, for me, doesn't work, and plods along with
little thrill or pace, or indeed much plot. I almost walked out of the
cinema, several times. The setting and costumes are fine and some of
the actors such as Bret McKenzie and JJ Feild work well as handsome
male leads. I felt Keri Russell was the wrong actor as the female lead.
She seemed too pert and bland. She didn't have much chemistry with her
love interests. But essentially I felt the script was the problem. It
seemed to focus on creating individual, pretty scenes rather than
connecting them in a clever way. It was flat, and needed perhaps the
input of a comedian. It needed zing and wit. For example, there is a
scene where everyone puts on a play, but it doesn't work. It doesn't
make sense and it's not funny. Jennifer Coolidge, the buxom comedian
from Legally Blonde, just wasn't as funny as she has been before on
screen. Her scenes are rushed and not sharp enough -- it's the same
with several other supporting characters. One woman is supposed to be a
bad guy, but in most of her scenes she's quite sweet and helpful, so it
doesn't make sense for her to suddenly turn into a villain. By the time
the final scenes came around, I really didn't care what happened to
Jane and that speaks volumes about the film.
