
I still can not describe my state of mind at the end of the film, a
mixture of devastating feelings that left me breathless, a state of
mind that only the greatest movies are able to leave, and this is one
of those movies ! Inside there is so much stuff to talk about that in a
comment like this is highly simplistic! If you love art, psychology,
suspense, love stories, in short, if you love life, this movie will
surprise you. A great cast of characters and works of art (TONS!)
complete the work and make it an unmissable, different from all the
other great movies of Tornatore. Beware then by those who want to
associate this film with a film of Hitchcock because it means dismantle
and destroy the film, this film is much more! Thrilling is only one
small part of a masterpiece of international cinema! Absolutely a must
see!
<|_=00=_|>
This is, by far, my most favorite movie of this year! I've always been
a Geoffrey Rush fan, but in this movie, I've seen a very special Rush
who, by the way his on screen persona goes thru a life changing
metamorphosis, creates a real, day-to-day living among us man with real
life personal fears, heartbreaking disillusions and self rediscovering.
He makes us care for the very rigid and robotic Virgil Oldman in a way
that surprises the senses. He is, in the beginning, a character who
most people would find repelling by his uncomfortable attitude and
bossy ways. But, as the movie proceeds, he is changed by this peculiar
and frightful young woman who has a way of bringing him up, and
crushing him down within minutes in their dialog. I must say that
director Tornatore wrote this amazingly beautiful story with a golden
pencil, I'm sure. This is not another love story. It's a life story,
set in the world of Arts, where there's more to discover behind the
colors of paintings and the still faces of sculptures than meets the
eye. As the movie comes to an end, you will face a difficult task: to
be thankful that such a story made it to the big screen, or to desire
that it would've remain only in the writer's mind and heart. I give it
a full 10, with no regrets. Awaiting more from Tornatore-Rush team!
They get along pretty well I see.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movies have the power to make you think and this movie had me
thinking for so long I couldn't sleep on the night I saw it. It is a
tremendous film with a deeply unsettling message and even now, 24 hours
after seeing it I am haunted by the end.

It's a fairy story and nightmare rolled into one. It's not what happens
that's important it's how it happens. the story is great but the plot
is even better.

Forget the bad reviews and make up your own mind. If you subscribe to
the notion that Life imitates Art or Art imitates Life go see it. You
won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Too long I am bombarded by TV shows that attempt to create drama within
drama to prolong their lives. Too few movies I have seen that are so
beautiful and yet have a good roller-coaster plot. 

"The best offer" seems too good to be true. The music, simple,
classical and with taste. At times, two channels are separated so that
my attention was drawn and I can't stop enjoying the music. The
sceneries, full of sculptures, paintings and other sorts of art works,
combined with the view of Italy, are mesmerizing. Sylvia Hoeks is just
so breathtakingly beautiful. The scene where she submerged herself
under the bathtub water was just so picturesquely capture that it
itself constructed a french portrait of a girl. The story is just too
good to be true, the atmosphere was built up to climax so perfectly
that you can sense the doom is imminent. It left me wonder, isn't it
too harsh in the end? But 

It is a Geoffrey Rush's show. But don't forget, it was Giuseppe
Tornatore who put all these pretty things are put together.
<|_=00=_|>
The only Guiseppe Tornatore film I've seen is Cinema Paradiso which is
an absolute masterpiece. It surprises me that he was only in his early
30s when he directed it as the film already showed the work of an
expert, given that his other films aren't as notable. The Best Offer,
with its tight screenplay, lush sets, brilliant performance by Geoffrey
Rush and beautiful score by Ennio Morricone, also exemplifies the
sophisticated expertise filmmaking. It's refreshing to see a film with
a unique universe grounded in the culture of our own with some
bizarrely specific themes. While my only complaint is that the dialogue
has this very "written" quality about it that is near impossible to
deliver in a natural way, it's at least consistent throughout.

The story is constantly intriguing, held together by a Hitchcockian
mystery feeling, and always pays off in a unique way. I'm not one for
"old man and young girl romance" stories as they're rarely without
uncomfortable perversion but The Best Offer completely justifies it
with its well developed characters and themes. However, what makes this
film so special and strange is the dramatic turn in the third act.
Heartbreaking not only for the characters but for the audience that the
film changes so drastically. But this is what made the film stick with
me so much. It's wonderful to have a film that you toss and turn in
your head, trying to figure out what it's all about. I can't divulge as
anybody who hasn't seen it will be spoiled. Just go watch one of the
best offers 2013 cinema has in store so far.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about Art!

It uses the Art as a mean to illustrate the Art as an end.

The Art is used in literal sense. Namely, the exterior is set in Rome
(and a bit of Prague) which are finest art statements to this day,
while the interior scenes are shot in gorgeous villas among pieces of
art (voluptuous sculptures, sensuous paintings, precious pieces of
furniture).

But more importantly, The Art is used in metaphorical sense: The Art of
transforming one's Passion into Possession. The Art of transforming
one's drive for Perfection and striving for owns Protection into one's
Flow and Vulnerability. The Art of merging opposing feelings, causing
inner conflicts, arousing thousand emotions, attacking all senses,
shaking the nerves...shaking the very ground until...

...until it becomes the ultimate Work of Art itself!

Bravo Maestro's: Tornatore, Moriconne and Rush!

Biljana Gjoneska - www.evermind.me
<|_=00=_|>
Interesting and enthralling picture with stirring drama , ravishing
cinematography and moving musical score . An epic story of a man who
could do anything , except be ordinary . A story centered on an
eccentric auctioneer , a great art lover , and his obsession with a
heiress/collector . As the successful auctioneer called Virgil Oldman
(Geoffrey Rush) becomes deeply passionate about a mysterious woman
called Claire (Sylvia Hoakes) who suffers agoraphobia . Meantime , the
fine art expert Virgil along with his younger friend , Robert (Jim
Sturgess) , attempt to remake an ancient automaton .

Colorful and moving film dealing with a solitary man who punches drunk
love with a strange girl who resides at an Italian villa only attended
by a handy man . The flick relies heavily on the complex relationship
between an older man and a younger woman , but this does not get bored
or spoils the tale . This captivating picture contains drama , intrigue
, plot twists and nostalgia completely wrapped in an enjoyable love
story between a lone winner and a locked girl . The story is narrated
with great sense and sensibility , the intelligent screenplay was
written by Giuseppe Tornatore himself . Slightly underrated but
excellent all the same time , the picture is both , enjoyable and
entertaining , but overlong . Magnificent performance from Geoffrey
Rush as virtuoso auctioneer who has never set his heart on real love ,
Jim Sturgess as his best friend and Sylvia Hoakes as the gorgeous as
well as rare girl . Good acting from remaining cast , just like :
Donald Sutherland , Dermot Crowley and Philip Jackson . Glowing
cinematography in colorful scenarios and splendidly photographed by
Flavio Zamarion who reflects marvelously the elegant restaurants ,
apartments , paintings , auction hall and many other things . Rousing
and moving score musical by the veteran master and prolific Ennio
Morricone who achieved a deserved David Di Donatello .

The picture was very well directed by Giuseppe Tornatore and won six
David Di Donatello awards , including Best Film and Best Director .
Tornatore made other similarly attractive films , including good actors
, such as : the excellent ¨Cinema Paradise¨ with Philippe Noiret ,
¨Malena¨ with Monica Belucci , ¨ The star maker¨ with Sergio Castellito
, ¨Legend of 1900¨ or ¨The Legend of the Pianist on the Ocean¨ with Tim
Roth , and ¨Baaria¨ with Raoul Bova ; being his English-language debut
feature titled ¨The professor¨ with Ben Gazzara . ¨The best offer¨
rating : Better than average , well worth watching for exceptional
cinematography , first-rate acting and wonderful score .
<|_=00=_|>
I watched 12 most promising movies at recent Berlinale, and this was
ultimately the best one. The movie is breathtaking and captures you
from the first seconds. Mr. Rush acting is superb, as are the art
direction, cinematography, score and of course, the plot. Film is full
of beauty, emotion and humor. It feels like a united whole from
beginning to the end and leaves a great impression. I was also
surprised later, when I found out that it was shot digitally with Arri
Alexa Studio - I was sure it was shot on film. This really is a camera
which will finally kill film, although I love film so much. Ironically,
film may remain the medium of choice for low budget productions, who
can not afford renting this Arri beast.
<|_=00=_|>
Another great role for Geoffrey Rush, possibly his greatest acting
performance, up to today. I dare to call it "another" just because his
performance in the King's Speech was quite impressive... The movie
offers not only an interesting script, somehow near to Agatha's
Christie novels, but also fine images and an inspired music. If you
like fine paintings and antique furniture, you will enjoy watching this
movie, even without paying to much attention to the criminal skeleton
that leads the story...there is no place for useless sequences,
everything goes smoothly and natural, the drama is well tempered until
the very final peak, the whole is well balanced and wonderful. I do not
know anything about the director of this movie, Mr.Giuseppe Tornatore,
but, I am pretty sure that he has many other things to say in his
future career...be sure to not miss this film, you will highly enjoy
the time spent watching it!
<|_=00=_|>
it is a good film. good acting, good directing, good story, good
music... it's not the best i've seen recently (i just saw 'the hunt'
from thomas vinterberg and that blew me off completely), but it is
worth watching.

movie will keep you engaged all the way.

i didn't like the ending, but i guess any other ending wouldn't fit, so
i shouldn't complain too much.

i gave it 8 out of 10 stars, because every single element of a movie
(from music to production to directing to...) is real good. considering
many mediocre (at best! :) ) movies that we see so often, i would say
that this movie deserves to be seen.

it's pleasing to the eye, it's soothing in some way... i don't regret
seeing it.
