
I don't like to be negative, but I feel obligated to help save the rest
of the world from wasting their hard earned money on this movie. This
is just about the worst movie I can recall ever seeing in my entire
life in the movie theater, and I have seen more movies than anyone I
know. There were about 10 minutes of this movie that I can honestly say
were funny, but the remaining 84 minutes were just complete and utter
agony. The movie takes the concepts of silly and campy to new lows. The
movie is laden with deliberate and unintelligent attempts at campy
humor, but every attempt falls flat. The concept behind the movie was
great, but the execution simply does not measure up. Disappointed! Can
I get my money back?
<|_=00=_|>
Sex Tape tells the tale of a couple who, as the title suggest, make a
sex tape and it gets leaked. Now this is a perfect example of a great
concept that morphs into a really bland and unfunny movie. Cameron Diaz
and Jason Segal play a bored married couple trying to spice things up.
For the sake of the film, these characters are needed but the actors in
the roles are surprisingly typecast at this point. Jason Segal plays an
R-rated version of his How I Met Your Mother character and it doesn't
exactly benefit him at this point because these are the roles he is now
stuck in. He's very good at what he does but this is the one film where
his performance grows weary about mid way through. Cameron Diaz isn't
much better either, while she does generate a couple chuckles it still
isn't nearly enough to help it. The supporting cast featuring Rob Lowe
and Rob Corddry do generate most of the laughs, it again doesn't make
for anything of a redeeming quality. Jake Kasdan directs from a poorly
executed screenplay that features a great idea and glimpses of its
genius in some of its twists but they are not enough to set this comedy
apart from the million other R rated comedies that have come and gone.
Much like Bad Teacher, this film has maybe two good scenes while the
rest become bogged down with useless crude jokes for the sake of having
a R rating. Overall, Sex Tape marks another disappointing comedy with
its overtly crude for the sake of being crude scenes and flat
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember the last time I wanted to walk out of a movie; there
are times I fall asleep but it's rare that I'm suffering enough to
actually leave. I felt that way within 15 minutes of sitting through
"Sex Tape" and it never improved, it just kept getting more agonizingly
crappy. It was bad enough that I don't think I can ever look at Cameron
Diaz again and certainly will never go to another one of her movies.
Jason Segal... that'll take a while as well. The writing was
unimaginably boring, like a bad drama trying to be a comedy. Painful.
Was there some reason that the best friends' kid had it in for Jason
Segal's character, because I never figured that out. Can't imagine what
they were thinking. Just awful massive fail.
<|_=00=_|>
Why would you even make a sex tape if you're just going to delete it
later? Usually a thing like this would be kept as a memento or
something. Also only rich white people would buy all their friends ipad
2's. With also very stale jokes already being thrown at us that cannot
even get a smirk out of you or me for that matter. If you enjoyed this
movie good for you, and your bad sense of humor. Already unbelievable,
you'd expect more from four writers including Jason Segel who has read
scripts before. I guess this was just for a quick buck (out of our
pockets of course)and to not bring anything new or refreshing.

Praying they give this useless film and the actors Razzies. 1 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
So the re-team of 2011's Bad Teacher which I did like very much ends up
three years later to make a film that is so outdated with a story that
no one cares about. But that is the thing we never can go to a comedy
to see the plot because the best comedy limit there plot just enough to
add clever jokes to keep you in the seat the you paid for. Well guess
what this movie fails at every inch of trying to be like the 2010's
Date Night with Steve Carell and Tina Fey with them meeting a bunch of
colorful characters that you would rather see in a funnier movie. This
is one of the worst films of the year because of course it is boring
flat and dull but not even that justifies how bad it is. At least at
flipping least The Other Woman was kind alive and bright with it being
funny because I can see what people like in that movie. But this is
just gosh awful with nothing to convince you at least a single point of
being funny smart or even enjoyable because the actors don't even give
it there comedy all with nothing to do except run this tired plot into
the ground that goes no where.

Do I like comedies? Heck yea. Good ones. But this is just not it. 

But people complain that nothing goes on in Neighbors but at least that
is a film that is alive and knows what it wants to be with a great team
up and execution that makes me dying laughing but this is just one word
awful. This is one Sex Tape that will not make anyone enjoy so do you
all yourself a favor and go see TF4, Apes, or anything else please
because this crap beyond belief.
<|_=00=_|>
Cameron Diaz headlined a shoddy comedy that opened earlier in 2014,
"The Other Woman", but instead of improving from the mistake of
choosing that script to further her career, Diaz outdoes her poor
script selection with "Sex Tape". The adjective "atrocious" was used in
numerous film reviews in describing "Sex Tape". Atrocious is such a
jarring word, it sounds like it could tear skin if used too
aggressively. The term should only be used selectively, but the quality
of the screenplay used to produce "Sex Tape" creates justifiable cause
to snort that word every second of the feeble film.

In "Sex Tape", Diaz and Jason Segal's characters, Jay and Annie, create
their three-hour sex video using an iPad. Their captured copulation
becomes a "must-see" by anyone in the film with knowledge of the
recording. Maybe that's what Director Jake Kasdan hoped would be the
reaction to his newly released comedy, but the final result does not
warrant a compulsive urge to see it, nor does it scream box-office
sellout. Once they absorb the first ten minutes, audiences will react
with a desire to run away from the theater instead of a continued
persistence to watch it. The talent of Diaz and Segal is squandered
into superficial characters and a defective plot line. Diaz declares
her agenda as an actress with "Sex Tape". As mentioned earlier, she
starred in another horrid effort this year, "The Other Woman", and what
both movies have common are crude, oversimplified stories that can be
accessed by just about anyone in the target audience demographic.
Pursuing challenging roles like she did in "Being John Malkovich",
"Something About Mary", and "Vanilla Sky" has seemed to have vanished
from Diaz's current plans. Instead, she seems focused on being a
top-rated actress at the box-office. If I'm completely incorrect and
these scripts are the best she is offered, then her time is done and
she should surrender. 

For the material she uses, Diaz does fine in her role. I actually have
no squabbles about anything she contributes as an actress to "Sex
Tape". Too bad no other film element is aiding her like a script, a
well-written character, a competent director or a co-star in Jason
Segal, whose discouraging performance is barely worth mentioning.
Segal's reputation reminds us he's reliable, but his work here suggests
a professional decline. He is dormant most of the film. One of his
character's "exclamatory" lines includes an "I'm so excited right now,"
but he says it so lethargically that I was not sure if his character
was being sincere or sarcastic. 

"Sex Tape" lacks the nerve to carry out the implications of its risqué
title and premise. The film slaps its cards on the table in the first
30 minutes, then fritters an hour of your life away on plot
developments that travel to insane levels past the original concept and
fruitless dialogue that talks in circles. "Sex Tape" has all the talk
and hype, but the final product is shallow and slightly perverted. 

The lesson that can be imparted from "Sex Tape" is that some trailers
do not lie. If it has a name that screams "RAZZIE!" and hokey previews,
then it's probably going to expel respect out of the reputation of the
once acclaimed Diaz and the always-promising Segal. Those who wisely
avoided the trailers are in the safe zone, but everyone else who takes
pleasure in seeing Diaz's eternal charm sparkle the screen and hoped
that maybe "Sex Tape" would be something irreverently fun like "Bad
Teacher" will be proved wrong. 

½ / * * * *
<|_=00=_|>
For YEARS! and I mean for years, the worst movie I've ever seen in
theaters was "Drop Dead Fred." Not sure why, but that movie was so
utterly terribad, it had stuck with me for the past 25yrs of owning the
crown jewel of atrociousness. 

Well ladies and gentlemen, we have a new winner... 

I'm not sure where to even start, and how to subjectively articulate my
disdain but let's start with some basics. 1. The over usage of f-bombs
every other scene for zero affect or purpose to the script or character
development, and just merely as an "adult" filler-word bc the writers
are too ignorant to utilize another word in order to express their
emotions. Pointless and redundant. 

2. The "jokes" and I use that term lightly, were ssssoooo forced and
legitimately clichés of past movies combined. Even the end has a
special cameo, and it was so painful to watch one of the funniest dudes
in comedy completely lose his wit to this script and one-liners. I
literally laughed at an actual funny line maybe twice. No seriously,
twice did I actually LoL (as the kids say) 

3. CDiaz is a total fox, OK and her walking around half-naked isn't
that bad, and I didn't care too much...but good gracious J.Segal, now
respect to that dude bc he kinda got shredded and lost some lbs for the
role, so respect to your swag bro, but I didn't need to see his bare
ass, with crack hair. It's nauseating. 

4. The "plot" oh my, wow I mean I wasn't even sure what each scene to
the next was talking about? Honestly it was painful to follow, not
difficult, just painful. 

All in all, please don't subject yourself to this torture film. 

You're welcome sifc33
<|_=00=_|>
When they were just dating, Jay and Annie had the best sex anywhere and
anytime. Since they got married and had kids though, their sexual
activity dipped to below zero. One frustrating night when their
attempts for sex were going nowhere, Annie hits on the idea to take a
video of themselves having sex to make things more exciting. Aroused by
the camera, they had a three-hour sex marathon following all the
positions prescribed in the book "The Joy of Sex".

In the morning, Annie reminds Jay to delete the video. However, Jay
inadvertently uploads the video onto the cloud and an app automatically
shared it with people to whom they had given their old iPads to,
including their kids, parents, friends, and even the mailman. Jay and
Annie scramble to get all of these iPads back and off the internet.

All of that I had written in the synopsis you can also get from
watching the trailer. All the funny parts are already there in that
short clip. When you watch the whole film, there was nothing else worth
watching anymore. In fact, the trailer was even edited better than the
film itself, making it more hilarious than the film itself. 

After the initial funny premise had already been laid down, the rest of
the film was nothing more than prolonging the agony and beating an
already dead horse. That whole sequence in the house of Rob Lowe's
character (as the CEO of the company interested in buying Annie's mommy
blog) was unbearably unfunny.

Jason Segel and Cameron Diaz are funny actors, but these are already
very familiar roles for them and they seem to just be sleepwalking
through them. Segel, in particular seems to be stereotyped already in
this type of role of a lovelorn loser. Diaz is a favorite actress of
mine, and I am able to find something positive in even her reviled
films, like "Bad Teacher" (which also starred Segel). There is still
her great-looking body to like here, but unfortunately, not much else.
<|_=00=_|>
There was promise in the premise of a couple dealing with a too close
for comfort situation. Sadly, every single element here is the worst of
the worst. From the writing, to the non existent "comedy", to the
horrible casting choices and the lack of chemistry in many of the
different couples here. It's hard to feel any empathy for the old
couple, or even believe any of the spouses were really fond of each
other, and the unbelievably stupidity of the script dragged everyone to
even lower levels. This was one time when one was wishing for negative
numbers to be used for ratings here.

Jason Segel, usually a very likable everyday type only annoys everyone
from the beginning, and Diaz can't lend any credibility to her role as
the wife of this loser. This is probably to the fact she has always
played women who are either a plain Jane type or have the ability to
manipulate or deceive those around them. She doesn't seem capable of
showing any degree of sexiness, and the dialog she has been given makes
the situation more ludicrous than ever.

Here comes Rob who doesn't fare as badly, but there is still nothing he
can do with the horrible puns, lines, and directions, if we can call
them given to him by whoever was directing this mess. Sitting through
this is probably the equivalent of water torture, medieval sadism, or
something worse. It was torture for the sense because of the endless
barrage of vulgarity, ineptitude, and huge amounts of contempt for
those in the audience. It was offensive in so many levels with its
visual display of scenes that deserve an NC-17 more than an R.
Language, visuals, jokes, special effects, everything is here was
deplorable and disgusting.

It's not that we had a couple of desperate morons trying to outdo each
other in order to stop a situation like this. We have seen it before,
and it has been at least entertaining or done in a creative manner to
suggest an action, rather to give unnecessary graphic imagery. What is
happening here? We had "The Watch" and their obsession with male
private parts and scatological jokes, then "The Wolf" came along, and
we were supposed to believe drug abuse was good cinema, and now this
came to top everything else. A big problem was that this is lending no
credibility to what critics might potentially say in the future. I
truly don't understand what film they saw, but there is absolutely
nothing to recommend about this disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me say that the characters were great. Diaz and Segel
are very talented, funny people in comic roles. The movie overall had a
very cute, however stupid, story line, but the portrayal of that story
line goes down hill in a hurry thanks to the direction of the film
maker. Ever since Seth Grogan came on the scene, who's mouth spews
filth from every direction, Hollywood has been pushing the limits with
each new "comedy" film. Each director trying to outdo the other in
terms of gross humor. There are no secrets left in sex. None.
Everything is brought out on the screen and in disgusting dialog that
leave little if any to one's imagination. Call me old fashion. Call me
an old fart. I just don't see the humor in "Coc..s..ker and
motherf...er over and over throughout the movie. What is the purpose?
To see how much they can get away with and still make a boatload of
$$$? To push the sensor meter to the limit and get a positive rise out
of the audience? To me, this is nothing more than a serious
deterioration of what little is left of society's morals. Now, it's all
about whatever sells.

Seinfeld was hilarious. Will & Grace was hilarious. Comedy like the
pink panther series was hilarious. Yet not a word of BS was spoken and
folks just laughed their collective asses off. Go figure! One of the
funniest comedic films of late was, "Hall Pass". The charters were cast
perfectly and it was a fun film to watch. Yet it did not resemble Sex
Tape in any way, shape or form in language content or visual calamity.
I'll be damned if I ever waste another $16. on trash like Sex Tape
again. Cameron Diaz I love you, but you can do much better than this.
