
Let's start with those of us who are huge fans of Vince Flynn, and his
numerous novels about Mitch Rapp. If you have read American Assassin, I
highly warn you NOT TO SEE THIS MOVIE, as it will be a complete
disappointment. The only similarities are: The title, the characters,
and the fact that Stan Hurley bites a guy's ear off. The other 92% of
the movie is pure Hollywood b/s. The movie only needs to use the book
as a guide, and take the story off the pages and onto the big screen,
and it's a blockbuster, but no - they can't do that. They have to hack
and mutilate a great story by Vince Flynn, and twist so many things
that it makes you feel like walking out of the theatre.

Now - let's say that you never read Vince Flynn's novel. I still would
not recommend seeing this movie. The plot is sketchy at best. You have
actors playing roles that they can't pull off (i.e. A french-man
playing a Mossul agent). arggg. And then there is the second rate
special effects / CGI. There is a particular scene near the end of a
Navy Helicopter flying into the scene where Mitch Rapp has located the
nuclear bomb (i.e. that's not part of the book either, and it's the
premise for the movie)...but back to the chopper - it's obviously a
special effect. Fast forward 10 minutes to the end, and the USS IKE
(Aircraft Carrier) is in the ocean and there are waves crashing over
it's deck. SOOO LAME.

Shame on the director, producer and anyone else who was responsible for
butchering a phenomenal novel. I pray there isn't a part 2.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually trust IMDb reviews until now. How anyone thinks this movie is
anything but terrible, mustn't get out much..lol. I never read the
book, never even knew there was a book so I'm reviewing as a movie.
Firstly the lead o'brien was so mis-cast. He did not suit the part and
went from looking like a normal dude to a steven segal and then back..
come on now, in the space of 10 minutes. The story and dialogue was so
all over the shop i actually thought pieces were missing from the copy
i had. I fell asleep twice and it took 3 attempts to watch it in its
entirety. One of those that you want to finish to see what happens in
the hope something will but you know in your heart it ain't gonna
happen after minute 25... good points were not a badly made movie and
of course keaton held the movie, great as usual.. but that's about it..
disappointed but the trailer is all you need.. or maybe the book.
<|_=00=_|>
Profoundly stupid and childish at every single step along the way. This
was born from a pretty stupid book that was also childish and
simple-minded.The book was a total rip-off of An Officer and a
Gentleman to the point that I was surprised the author didn't lift the
"steers and queers" line. 

The story is so ridden with clichés it's like they used a Micro Soft
boilerplate model for the script. 

Butch-sounding name: Mitch Rapp. Check. Grizzly old vet training the
new punk kid. Check.

Arab bad guys right out of an episode of Scooby Doo. Check. Lame
martial arts scenes right out of a 9 year old kid's fantasy. Check.

Nothing at all felt real about this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening scene is expertly executed; the first 30 minutes up to the
protagonist getting expert training from Keaton's character were also
handled very well. From that point onward though, the film becomes
tedious and clichéd. O'Brien does not have much screen presence though
he obviously beefed up for this movie. To be honest, I never really
cared for the characters. The lead character is noxious and annoying;
the actor playing the rogue agent is also unconvincing and should be
relegated to acting in sitcoms.

Also, for a movie with the title, you expect a lot of "assassinating"
but that does not happen. Most activities in the film are about spying/
espionage work/ counter-terrorism so it should be renamed American Spy
or American Special Ops Agent.

This is just a lazy rant as I got nothing better to do in the office.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the cliché (and continually repeated) line of "I've never
seen anyone like this," inferring that this guy who has trained in
martial arts and shooting for something like 18 months, was better than
anything that these "experts" had seen in all their years of
special/black ops was not only completely unrealistic, even in this
fictional world but also not illustrated in the film itself, since the
actor just couldn't pull off anywhere near adequate combat skills to
show that he was anything even of moderate level ability. The
implication seemed to be that he as just driven by "cold rage" and that
this is what gave him his skills but all the fight scenes were edited
to be close and so we never get to see him doing anything to show his
hand/hand or knife combat skills.

Secondly, all the people at various levels of power had a very
one-dimensional "I have dealt with everything and anything for years
and don't have a drop of internal/emotional conflict" expressed either
though their body language or language. Compare this with something
like "Homeland" where all the characters are basically showing more and
more how messed up they are inside because of what they've been
through.

Third and this is just a personal gripe: Scott Adkins who is an
incredibly skilled martial artists was completely wasted and watching
"Mitch" take down "Yuri Boyka the greatest fighter in the world" was
just heresy.

Fourth and probably most importantly, it was just a boring movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I scored free tickets to this which is a good thing because I walked
out after an hour because I was dozing off. Before that, it was a
struggle to stay awake or interested. This is just a super generic film
we have seen a million times before but the worst thing is that the
action isn't even good. Tons of jump cuts, shaky-cam and annoying
close-ups. Plus this film is laughably directed. There is even one
scene where two people are talking while eating outside of a cafe and
this lady in the background just keeps looking at them as she walks by;
I'm guessing this film went super cheap and just shot some scenes out
in public without using extras as background people. This should have
never gotten screen time, big or small. It is just lame.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie could have been much more but instead, due to a nonsensical
climax, it is just another Hollywood very average effort. And they
wonder why box office takings are down these last couple of years. The
story line starts out believable enough - terrorists attack that kills
a loved one and a survivor looking for revenge. Formulaic but
watchable. The CIA, as usual in US movies of this type, appear far more
successful in surveillance and covert action than is often the case in
real life. The cast are OK and handle their roles well for the most
part, putting aside the usual cliché or three re CIA/Special ops agents
in the field. I found the movie acceptable right up to the ending where
the bad guy sets out to Nuke the US Fleet. Nothing about that part of
the story line was in the least bit believable. It may well have played
out much better in the original book upon which the movie was based but
fails miserably here. A wasted $20. Better value waiting for the movie
to hit your movie streaming site of choice.
<|_=00=_|>
When someone makes a movie about your country you can see how clumsy 
and stupid they are. Full of mistakes and I just dropped watching it. 
1)Plates of the cars, it is not like that. 2)You cannot see MP within 
the city, it is not their responsibility. 3)In America you may do it 
like that but in Turkey MP and/or police do not guard gun dealers.

etc, etc,...
<|_=00=_|>
I have read all of the Mitch Rapp series, and loved them very much, so
I was excited to go to American Assassin. What a disappointment! For
one thing, Mitch Rapp was totally miscast, nothing like the many
descriptions of him in the book. The story line was changed so much,
from the way his fiancée was killed on to the rest of the events in the
movie. What a letdown for us die-hard Mitch Rapp fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Books are NOT movies. This needs to be said over and over, because
there is always a cabal of complainers who hate any movie that doesn't
faithfully follow its hardcover source. I haven't read Vince Flynn's
American Assassin, and I don't intend to. But I feel fairly confident
that he wasn't writing a movie. American Assassin (the movie) is a
film-telling of the original story; it is NOT the original story, and
it doesn't pretend to be. (Memo to Vince Flynn fanatics: Don't go see
it.) American Assassin is a terrific watch, if for no other reason than
seeing Dylan O'Brien nail it. And he is well aided by his supporting
cast, most especially Michael Keaton, Taylor Kitsch and Saana Lathan.
(I would like to have included Shiva Negar, but her character is
severely compromised by problematic writing. She did the best she could
with what she was given.) The script is larded with clichés, but for
the most part the actors make good use of them. Director Michael Cuesta
keeps it all moving right along. Most of the characters are very thinly
drawn, leaving the actors to flesh them out as best they can. The
special effects range from absent entirely to overdone. The script
itself lurches from event to event, with an ending that goes beyond
credulity. None of this matters. Dylan O'Brien is on screen ninety
percent of the time, and his character is spot on. He is totally in
command, and his charisma is entirely in charge. For a movie such as
American Assassin, that's what it is all about.
