
Attended the World Premier of For a Good Time, Call... at the Sundance
Film Festival 

If you liked Bridesmaids you'll want to see this movie. For a Good
Time, Call... had the audience in stitches the whole way through. It
somehow manages to be both raunchy and sweet at the same time. Cameo's
with Seth Rogen and Kevin Smith were hilarious. Ari Graynor is
perversely funny. (that's a compliment) Lauren Miller is just too damn
cute. And Justin Long WOULD make a great Bond villain. I loved it and
if you're not a complete prude I think you'll find things to love as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
A comedy about phone sex may not sound like a good idea, but For A Good
Time, Call... manages to pull it off thanks to a good deal of humor and
character development. Much of the humor here is raunchy but it works.
It's not one of those dumb raunchy comedies. Some of the best bits
happen when Lauren and Katie talk to their customers. One of them is
Captain Jerry who's played by Seth Rogen, Lauren Miller's real-life
husband. Miller plays proper young woman Lauren Powell. She was also
one of the script writers, along with Katie Anne Naylon. They based the
script on their real-life experiences as college roommates. Miller's
performance is suitable and works well opposite Ari Graynor as Katie
Steel. There's commitment from every actor involved but it's Graynor
who steals every scene she's in. She has the best lines and she knows
it. She plays her character like a pro. At first she doesn't seem
appealing to the audience, but as the film progresses she becomes a
rounded and likable personality. Although the story is set in the
modern day the film still seems like one of those films from the
early-1990s. It reminded me of Clerks (1994). A good script and a good
setup make For A Good Time, Call... one of the better comedies of 2012.
I recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
The film title doesn't mislead us. Sex toys, phones, and ladies are
involved. It's also a relationship film, but an impressive variation
from the usual romantic comedy angle.

Like another film from this year, Giant Mechanical Man, a significant
part of this story involves young adults finding themselves along with
happiness after what they thought was a serious relationship was ended
by the significant other. And so begins the adventure. It may be we
have a new type of urban adventure involving main characters exploring
the unchartered territories of themselves and those close to them.

Unlike GMM, this is not nearly as predictable. Just when you think you
know where it's headed, it shifts directions and explores areas that
rarely get explored in film.

It also does many of the artistic things that other films keep failing
to do in terms of how and who the villains/enemies are and who those
you can trust are.

Another relatively low-key, indie film from 2012 doing new stuff that
doesn't involve 3D, computer FX, or horribly loud audio blasted at the
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Lauren (Lauren Miller) and Katie (Ari Graynor) have a mutual friend
(Justin Long), but they hate each other. A humorous flashback scene is
included to help explain their hatred. Essentially, they hate each
other because they're opposites. Lauren lives the settled conservative
life with her perfect, boring boyfriend; Katie is an adventurous,
flamboyant sex phone operator. And now their current situations force
them to become roommates.

Our ticking clock of the three-month lease sets a good, quick pace for
the adventures and relationships the girls get themselves into.
Lauren's sudden unemployment coupled with the good head on her
shoulders sparks her idea to help Katie launch her own sex phone
hotline. Cut-out the middle man and take more of the profits.

A smart move the film made was to have their business be successful
right off the bat. That's because the film isn't about the phone sex
hotline business but rather Lauren and Katie's friendship. Written by
girls, starring girls, about girls and for girls. Earlier this summer,
the male stripper movie "Magic Mike" turned into a rather nice surprise
as it became a quarter-life crisis dramedy. And now the crass and crude
sex comedy "For a Good Time, Call" is actually a cute and sweet female
buddy film.

While the dialogue is extreme, it is surprisingly fairly well written.
It's all in context, and the vulgar and coarse sex jokes fit in
extremely well with the plot. The final scene, the climax if you will,
is an excellent example of keeping the sex-addled jokes funny and
completely in context of the story.

A certain indie filmmaker shows up for one cameo scene where
self-servicing has never been as funny. The other well-documented cameo
with Seth Rogen isn't nearly as funny because it is also supposed to
serve as plot advancement. Plot advancement is limited as it is very
predictable and the jokes are very one-note, but it's still funny.

"For a Good Time, Call" is honest in what it claims to be, and despite
an unresolved storyline, we're cheering for Lauren and Katie by the end
because of the actors and how they have connected them to us. Lauren is
beautiful and sympathetic; Katie is more complex and is gorgeously
displaying one of the sexiest figures to grace the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
In Manhattan, the nerd aspirant editor Lauren Powell (Lauren Anne
Miller) is dumped by her boyfriend Charlie (James Wolk) that is
expatriated to Rome. Meanwhile, the manicure Katie Steele (Ari Graynor)
can not afford the raise in the rent of her apartment at the Gramercy
Park. Their common gay friend Jesse (Justin Long) brings Lauren to
share the apartment with Katie, but they are college enemies and have
difficulties to accept each other. Katie also works in a phone sex line
but her income is very low. When Lauren loses her lousy job and is not
accepted in a publishing house, she decides to use her knowledge to
make a profitable business in sex for Katie and herself. But when
Lauren's parents unexpectedly appear in the apartment, their friendship
is tested. 

"For a Good Time, Call..." is an uneven comedy, funny in certain
moments and lame in others. The religious fanatic in very unfunny; the
slut Katie being a virgin is something ridiculous. But there are many
scenes that make laugh. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Para se Divertir, Ligue..." ("For a Good Time,
Call...")

Note: On 21 July 2016, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
"For a Good Time, Call..." has a story centered in the everyday of two
young girls whose lives are filled with pornography and men, mainly due
to the fact that the girls charge them boys for telephone sex. The film
becomes funny once the shy female let herself loose and becomes being
even more confident than her friend. Also, it's funny when both
characters are normally lied down in the bed, doing customary things,
while, in the phone, they're pretending to be "turned on", to say the
least. It's important to notice that the main actresses are quite
professional, since they're able to portray different feelings in
characters that were supposed to be just crazy and nothing else. If
filmmakers had a higher budget, I'm positive this film would've be
relatively known... or maybe they would've just destroyed the
amateurish story we have seen. Either way, albeit "For a Good Time,
Call..." isn't a flick to change people's minds or to teach something
new, it's a good entertainment without moral lessons, being surely
recommended to teenagers and young adults. I had a great time!
<|_=00=_|>
Two women are brought together because of financial hardship to live as
roommates in New York City. Despite there utter dislike of each other
the bond merged after their financial needs. Lavern Miller (Lauren
Powell) and Katie Steele (Ari Grayner) turn the tables from being
college frenemies to BFFs. 

A quirky comedy about the dynamics of using sex appeal to discover the
vast pot of undiscovered gold. The rated "PG" version of what could
have been a salacious filled film. For A Good Time Call makes you laugh
and cheer on the entrepreneurial spirit of these innovative women. I
had fund watching it and listening to the silly antics thought up to
squeeze one more minute of sex talk.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains SPOILERS: The blonde is totally vindictive and a brat and
hated the brunette for no reason. She urinated in the brunette's car so
the brunette kicked her out in a bad neighborhood. Uhhh, yeah, I would
have done worse if some drunk fool did that in my new car. I would have
been po'd, shoved her out of my car and would be tempted to strike her.
I could see no reason for the blonde to hate her for that but whatever.

Anyway, they become friends and business partners and so on and so on.
Equally stupid is the blonde who is a very sexually open, flamboyant
phone sex operator who ends up being a virgin (no offense to phone sex
operators, I am one myself). A virgin? Uh...OK, LAME.

Then that religious fanatic comes in undercover to apply for a job with
the girls just to sabotage their business. Again, LAME.

But it was fun for me to see the male callers that phoned in, LOL.
Working in the industry myself, I got a laugh out of that, pretty
accurate.
<|_=00=_|>
With a premise in a similar vein to 'Zack And Miri Make A Porno', which
also starred a dim- witted Seth Rogen, 'For A Good Time, Call' is a
crude, daring comedy that never crosses the line simply because it
doesn't have one.

Resorting to phone sex to help pay the bills in their city apartment,
Lauren and Katie - two completely opposite personalities - bond despite
a teenage feud still lingering. While Ari Graynor has the better role
to play, Lauren Miller manages to prove she shares a sense of lowbrow
humour with her husband (Rogen), who cameos in one of the film's most
memorable scenes. Justin Long's flamboyant character is used to the
right extent; the film never outstays its welcome in any aspect, its
brisk running time only slowing for a more serious third act, a missed
attempt at giving the film emotional weight where, given its no- holds
barred hilarity, feels somewhat unnecessary.

Refreshing and relevant, 'For A Good Time, Call' is a chick flick for
both genders; a sugary depiction of sisterhood flirting with a risqué
exploration of what men enjoy about it.
