
The acting was solid. The production value was superb. Everything else
was really poor.

The back story and character motivations are laughably sparse. Most of
the characters are completely one-dimensional, with the possible
exception of Loki. The plot is the most boring and typical of all
action plots - some "bad dudes who happen to be really ugly" decide to
"destroy the world for no reason other than being evil" and "only our
hero can save us all", etc. Moreover, it was lazy writing - whenever an
absolute miracle needed to happen, it conveniently did, every time. 

Of course this is a mindless blockbuster Marvel movie so we shouldn't
expect much. But the thing is that these kinds of films CAN be made
with a reasonable plot, pacing, and character development. The writers
were obviously just going through the motions to cash in on the
surefire moneymaker sequel, and from a business perspective it is hard
to fault them. But it says a lot about the sad state of Hollywood in
2013 that this film currently has a 7.7 on IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
Go ahead and find this review not useful. But listen to me. I love
Marvel films. The Original Spider-man Trilogy was amazing and The
Avengers was awesome. But when I saw Iron Man 3 I was bored out of my
mind and I felt it was not good. So I lowered my expectations for this
movie and hoped it would be better right? Because from what I learned,
the lower the expectations, the better the movie. Big Mistake.

Thor The Dark World is all over the map with scenes of badly
choreographed action scenes to bad comedy to laughable acting.

I really wanted to like this film because I liked the original Thor. It
was really good and it was directed by Kenneth B. who is the man who
made The best adaptation of Hamlet Ever. But the movie suffers from
production troubles to a bad script.

The Film begins with this super magic thing called the Ether... I think
which causes destruction. They find it and this one guy says "Lets
Destroy it." but this other guy says "ITS TOO POWERFUL! We must put it
in a place where it is easily touchable!" I knew this was going to be a
bad film because the beginning suffers from cliché after cliché.

Thor returns to Earth because Jane gets the Ether in her and they must
heal her. The Dark Elves who are the bad guys for the film attack
Thor's planet and the main baddie tries to line up the main 9 planets
and cause darkness everywhere. Thor gets Loki from Prison and they go
stop the evil baddie.

The script and direction are extremely weak. The script sucks because
the dialogue is horrendous. The acting is hilarious from Anthony
Hopkins as Odin as he overacts a lot in this movie.

The action scenes are poorly choreographed and make no sense.

Also, Heroes should have weaknesses. Thor nearly throughout the whole
Has none. Why should we care if they are unstoppable without any
weaknesses, that takes away the credibility of the character.

Also, this teleporting plot line makes no sense. They go nearly
everywhere in this movie. In the final fight scene fall everywhere
going back from place to place. They never explain why these teleports
are randomly put all over the map but it really annoys me.

The jokes... oh my god. They are so unfunny. Who cares if the Professor
guy's pants are not on? Bad comedy has to be understood and this movie
doesn't understand comedy. The character of Darcy is obnoxious. She was
alright in the first but she always has to say HOLY SH*T 500 times a
scene.

The special effects are alright but its not always about the effects.
One effect actually hurt my eyes and I didn't know if it was the 3D or
if my eyes just hurt.

There are very few good things about this movie. The guy who plays Loki
is one of the only redeeming qualities of this movie and he is very
convincing. The Stan Lee Cameo is also great and funny like always.
There is a awesome twist I wont spoil. But that's about it.

This movie is just super loud in its bad action scenes are poor acting
and ear bleeding sound effects.

Thor The Dark World is the worst movie of the year without a doubt. I
was disappointed severely. Marvel can be much better then this and I
hope Captain America The Winter Soldier does a better job at being a
better superhero movie.

25/100 D
<|_=00=_|>
The plot barely exists for this film. Generic evil people try to take
over universe, Thor stops them, the end. Which might have been alright
but there was very little action in this mindless action film. What
little fighting we got was poorly orchestrated and repetitive.

The dialogue is wooden and adds nothing. The characters with the
exception of Loki have no depth and only exist as an assortment of
clichés. Hiddleston makes for a great Loki but that is literally the
only good or interesting thing in the entire film.

Thor continues to be the worst Marvel movie franchise and Hemsworth is
possibly the worst actor to ever star in multiple major movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I don't hate superhero films. I like them
very much when they are done well. I hate laziness in films and
superficiality. The problem is that pretty much every superhero film
made is very lazy and most of them are entirely superficial. Marvel's
initial idea of an Avengers universe was inspired from a marketing
stand point but I am beginning to question whether or not it has been a
failure from a creative stand point. 'Thor the Dark World' is a
terrible movie. It does absolutely nothing to add to the mythos of the
character or this Marvel universe. The only reason it exists is to draw
up excitement for the next Avengers film. 

There are no stakes to this film and there are a lot of places to
direct blame. The acting aside from Tom Hiddleston is next to
unwatchable. The thing is that this is a very talented cast we are
working with here. Anthony Hopkins and Natalie Portman have both won
Academy Awards. Stellan Skarsgard is one of the most fascinating
character actors in Hollywood. I like Hemsworth a lot too and thought
he was great in the first 'Thor' film. But none of them invest anything
in the material. Hopkins looks bored and emotes nothing in his
delivery. Portman's performance is terrible too and in the process of
it being terrible it makes a terrible script look even worse. Jane
Foster is a horrible character here. She is by far the stupidest damsel
in distress portrayed in comic books recently. Portman is too lazy to
give her any sort of character. She punctuates every cheap joke and
many of them are just about how ditsy the character is. This kind of
writing and performance make me almost agree that comic books offer a
flawed and stereotypical depiction of women. Stellan Skarsgard, an
actor I think has great depth, is played as a complete fool here. I
hated every time he appeared on screen and I am a Stellan Skarsgard
fan. I don't place the blame all on him but yeah everyone here did
something very wrong in bringing these stupidly conceived characters to
life.

In actuality though they are not the biggest problem with the film. The
problem is that there is no threat to anything or anyone. The villain
here is so completely forgettable and has a plan for evil so half assed
that they movie really had no chance of working. This is the ultimate
example of a conflict for the sake of having a conflict. If actor
Christopher Eccleston is not rewarded a Razzie for his portrayal here
than that award show has lost all credibility. Villains even poorly
written ones with no motivation like this Maleketh should at least
offer the actor the chance to try to ham it up with the tropes of goofy
villainy. Eccleston doesn't do that. He has a boring calm delivery that
evokes no response but laughter. And since Eccleston's performance is
such an overwhelming failure I was drawn to how stupid his make-up
looked too. 

I wish I could give this a bomb rating, I really do. To be honest
though Tom Hiddleston is too damn good in the Loki role to say the film
is completely without merit. They don't do anything new with his
character here but he's so entertaining and in every Marvel film he
adds new layers and nuances to a very interesting character. A whole
movie could have been made about this stage of Loki's life and it would
have been so much more entertaining and compelling than this load of
work. Hiddleston portrays Loki as unchained with no loyalty to anyone.
This is the first film where we see him as a trickster and Hiddleston
delivers suffice to say. The problem is he isn't really in the film
long enough. Jane Foster, Darcy, and Dr Selvig all get more screen time
than Loki. 

Here's my brilliant business proposition to Marvel. Don't make any
movies but Avengers films. Give your golden boy Joss Whedon the four
hundred or so million you spent on 'Iron Man 3' and 'Thor the Dark
World' and see what he does with it. In watching 'Iron Man 3' and this
film it is clear that is where the mindset and passion are. 

I hope the Marvel cinematic universe can be saved but I have to say
that their track record is looking really bad right now. Kevin Feige
and Disney should look back at Favareu's first 'Iron Man' film. It was
gutsy and took risks and there was no guarantee of immediate endless
sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
Thor: The Dark World left me wondering why for all its popularity and
box office hype the superhero genre so regularly fails to ignite the
faintest trace of excitement and imagination in its narrative and
storytelling. This sequel, following Kenneth Branagh's reasonably funny
2011 film, was written by no less than five writers, who between them
have only mustered another dull, achingly generic story about saving
the world. Aside from less than a handful of funny self-referencing
points, this is a hugely disappointing by the numbers blockbuster that
under services its embarrassingly rich cast and offers its enormous
fanbase too little that is challenging, inspired or even surprising. 

What's confusing about the deliberate complacency in the script is that
it's entirely unnecessary. There is no financial risk to comic book
adaptations anymore to justify this kind of dumbing down. Earlier this
year, Iron Man 3 became one of the top five highest grossing films of
all time. While Christopher Nolan's Batman films have achieved
financial success without succumbing to simplified narrative lines.
Some even complained The Dark Knight Rises had too many story threads.
How many filmmakers today would crawl over broken glass for a cast
featuring Chris Hemsworth, Natalie Portman, Anthony Hopkins, Idris
Elba, Tom Hiddleston, Chris O'Dowd and Stellan Skarsgard? With such
talent it's not unreasonable then to ask for more than obligatory
special effects and indistinguishable villains, who are included only
to prop up pseudo- scientific plot points. 

Little effort has been exhausted into humanising these characters. Thor
(Hemsworth) is a blank slate who swings his hammer and growls at
people. It makes Chris Hemsworth look like a boring actor when we've
seen how charismatic he can be, like he was in Rush, with the right
material and director. There are fewer fish out of water jokes that I
enjoyed in the first film. Natalie Portman, normally a delightful,
charming actress, is embarrassed here as Thor's girlfriend, playing a
character devoid of plausible emotional responses and desires. Her
first reaction after being warped from London to Asgard is to say "Hi!"
and "Let's do that again!" Never mind that her skin is now infected
with the Aether, a weapon of mass destruction from an ancient group
called the Dark Elves (who speak perfect English no less). She's more
impressed that Thor told his dad about her! The Dark Elves are led by
Malekith (Christopher Eccleston), who wants to use the Aether to
destroy the world. 

Comic book films rise and fall on the quality of their villains. The
Dark World has two, both of whom are substandard. The Dark Elves,
branding swords and laser weapons, aren't very interesting. Though
Thor's brother Loki (Hiddleston) sometimes brings comic relief to the
film's dry, seriousness (I did enjoy one clever shape shifting moment)
he still doesn't possess the physicality of Tom Hardy's Bane to be a
truly menacing physical threat. Locked up in a cell for nearly half the
film, there's not a lot for Loki to do. What should also be a haunting
surprise at the end of the film is badly telegraphed. When Thor and
Loki inevitably team up, the brothers take a few more punches than you
might expect, but still recover very quickly, even after a severed
hand. Marvel is a subsidiary company belonging to Disney so this is
largely bloodless action. 

This is the first comic book feature film by Alan Taylor, who replaced
Patty Jenkins under controversial circumstances. Taylor has worked on
television shows like Game of Thrones, and he brings little distinction
to the action and the way the story is told. The camera isn't
particularly mobile and significant plot lines like the Aether are
lazily signposted through the film's prologue. He opts to intercut
Thor's main story with a subplot involving Jane's scientist friends
back on Earth, including an overly excitable Kat Dennings, who are
discovering the alignments of Asgard's nine realms, if that matters.
Sometimes they lighten the mood but they're still cornball stereotypes
(the wacky sidekick, the crazy scientist and the dorky intern) that
don't instill any visible subtext to the plot. The two narrative
threads collide with Taylor's most elaborate set piece, as Thor fights
simultaneously between universes, a battle that is undone by Thor's own
indestructibility. Over the closing credits are shots of the film's
concept art, which could be totally interchangeable with most of the
plotting. It's time that comic book fans started to demand more from
these films before the entire genre evaporates into a disposable,
commercialised heap like it does here.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not sure where to begin....

Maybe I was a bit lost because I never saw the first "Thor"...and I am
not familiar with the character and what he is all about...

But regardless...this movie was rambling and disjointed. All the
characters were so superficial and one dimensional that I did not care
in the least what happened to any of them. Apparently the entire
universe was at risk, and this film managed to make that prospect
completely boring and leave the viewer 100% indifferent about the
outcome. Impressive.

There were a few attempts at humor thrown into the movie. They were all
childish...they failed...and in fact were so "unfunny" they made me
cringe.

About Thor. How interesting is a character who is apparently entirely
omnipotent....? Near as I can tell, he can neither be hurt nor
killed....and can travel the universe at more than the speed of light.
Yawn. I have enjoyed Natalie Portman in many films...but even she could
not contribute anything useful to this turd.

Having said all this...as of this writing this movie has a 7.6 IMDb
rating. I don't get it... I felt I had to post an honest review to
counter that nonsense.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying I had fairly high expectations for this
film, not only being a fan of the first film but of Thor as a comic
book characters. To be nice, these expectations were not met. To be
realistic, this is easily the worst of the Marvel movies. This is my
first review so sorry if I jump around a lot with what I say. Let's
begin with the characters. Thor was.. okay. He said nor did anything
noteworthy really. He didn't grow that much as a character, and simply
felt boring. Natalie Portman was horribly boring to watch, and in some
scenes her character was written as an idiot. That seems to be a common
problem with the movie. Jane Foster? An idiot. Eric Selvig, an
originally intelligent character that had some serious, good talks with
Thor? Running around naked because the Tesseract made him go insane...
or something. It wasn't very clear. Speaking of, if he went insane
because of the Tesseract, why was Hawkeye completely okay after a bonk
on the head? Darcy? The most annoying girl on the planet. She was meant
for comedy but came of as GRATING to listen to and watch. Odin was a
douche who didn't know how to rule properly. Malekith was just...
boring. The makers had so much to work with, considering in the comics
what a clever sorcerer he is, as well as a deranged homicidal madman.
In this movie his motivations are unclear and his only character trait
was he likes to frown at things with his puffy looking face. Character
wise the only saving graces were Idris Elba as Heimdall and Tom
Hiddleston as Loki, which did not matter much considering how little
they were in the movie. Which is strange because Loki is in the trailer
so much, but has MAYBE 20 minutes of screen time. The special effects
in this movie were just ugly. Every monster looked fake and many of the
scenes looked like they were pulled out of a last gen video game. the
set design was okay, but not once did I feel immersed. Everything felt
like a flimsy set. It was just an ugly movie to look at. The plot was
just all over the place, with cuts to different scenes happening
frequently. Many scenes were completely useless could have been cut
altogether. Literally the only good scene was when Loki and Thor trick
Malekith. Also, considering it was never explained how Loki was able to
survive a stab wound, switch places with a guard, then switch places
with Odin becoming the new leader of Asgard, the ending makes
absolutely no sense whatsoever. The dialogue was just... horrendous.
There were multiple points where myself and the people I've seen the
movie with just laughed at the ridiculousness of what was being said.
Speaking of, the movie was farrrrrr too funny. Don't get me wrong, I
like comedic relief in these Marvel movies, it works for the
established universe but GOD they literally play every scene for comedy
it seems. Even the final world ending battle with Malekith was played
for comedy. For Christ's sake, THOR RODE TO THE BATTLE IN A SUBWAY CAR.
There's a gag where him and Malekith are sliding on the side of a
building with office people looking outside blankly, completely meant
for comedy.. IN THE FINAL, WORLD ENDING BATTLE. Avengers, Thor, Iron
Man 1,2 Captain America, all these movies had the common sense to put
the comedy in scenes where it was necessary. Hell, even Iron Man 3, the
most comedic movie behind this one had the common sense to say "This is
the final battle. Let's make this badass". Another problem with the
final battle itself is that it has no 'WOW' moments. There's no real
climax, everything is just bleh. OH and Malekith is squished by his
spaceship. That's something. Oh and why the hell do Asgardians and Dark
Elves have so many technological based things?! They have star ships,
turrets, laser cannons, ray guns, etc. There's nothing here that feels
like magic, which is what Thor should be about. And the Aether. The
main point of the movie. The weapon to spread darkness throughout the
universe essentially ushering an era of rule under Malekith. I couldn't
tell you a damn thing about this thing other that it spread...
darkness. whatever that means. The concepts that this movie is trying
to give are incredibly under explained. Where did the Aether come from?
Not explained. How did Jane end up actually finding it? Not sure.
What's the Convergence? It's when the 9 realms line up so Malekith
can... spread... darkness?.. How powerful is it? I have no idea.
Apparently universe shattering, but Thor doesn't have much trouble
fighting an Aether powered Malekith. It's actually kind of sad how
easily he was dispatched. There is little fun to be had in this movie.
It's just stupid. I didn't care about a single character besides Loki,
who was actually somewhat developed and easily stole the show when he
was on screen. This movie is absolute garbage and has ruined Thor
cinematically for me. I truly hope Captain America: The Winter Soldier
and Guardians of the Galaxy are good or I truly worry for the Avenegers
2. 

Please save your money. Don't see this movie. Don't tell the studios
that this Transformers 2 level garbage is okay to put out, that these
characters are okay to ruin. In the end, I give this movie a 2 out of
10, because Idris Elba was good, Loki was fantastic, and it had a
single scene in the movie where it gave me a glimmer of hope that it
would be redeemed. I'm sure I have far more to address but I'm trying
really hard to forget this film and reread the latest Thor comic epic,
Gorr the God Butcher. If you want to see some good Thor, read that
rather than watching this. Please.
<|_=00=_|>
Following on from the events of the Avengers movie, Thor is back in
Asgard, delivering Loki, who is damned to spend an eternity in the
Asgardian dungeons.

Jane is in London, still pining for the titular character, as she
hasn't seen him for two years, but still holding out for him.

But there is a new threat from the dark elves. They seek an elixir type
essence that will cause darkness amongst the nine realms.

Jane however has found a portal into one of the realms, and gets
infected by the essence. Because the dark elves can trace this source,
Thor rescues her and takes her back to Asgard, much to Odins dismay.

But the elves plan an attack on Asgard, and after many lives are lost,
Thor realises that only one person can help him, and he's damned for
the rest of his life....

The first movie was wonderful. Not only was it exciting and refreshing,
but it was one of the funniest Marvel movies released yet. This however
takes a huge step back, and really taints phase two of the Marvel
releases.

Hemsworth is as good as ever, as is Hiddleston, but apart from Portman,
it appears that the rest of the cast have been sidelined, so Thor and
Loki can carry on their war of nerves.

It's also very convoluted, narrative is lost as there is so much going
on, and by the end of it all, you wondered what on earth went on, an
also what happened to a few of the characters, there are plot holes
aplenty.

The humour what was wonderful in the first movie, feels really forced
in this, and instead of causing unexpected laughter, had me rolling my
eyes as to how silly it felt. Dennings is a thorn in the movies side,
she is a parody of her character from the first, and ruins every scene
she is in.

The best joke in the film, which was in the trailer, steals from
Raiders of the Lost Ark anyway.

Visuals are bland and boring, and Asgard feels like something from The
Phantom Menace, combined with Flash Gordon, and the rest of the realms
could have come from any Lord Of The Rings movie.

Its a shame, because Marvel know they have a winning formula, but here
it feels like they are just in it for the money, and all the cool
references and a brilliant cameo, cannot save such a disappointment.

Many will call it Thor-some and other play on word praises.

But for me, and I really hate saying this because Hemsworth is really
good, it's pretty Thor-ful.
<|_=00=_|>
Well they got the "dark" part right. Does it distress anyone at all
that somewhere deep in the bowels of Hollywood there are people who
make many times what you make for coming up with the idea that watching
a lot of banging and clanging in an alternate universe that -- at its
best -- resembles Central Park at midnight is .... entertainment? If it
does not, it should. The problem with sequels like this -- aside from
the fact that they are actually produced in the first place -- is that
they serve no useful purpose other than making the original in the
franchise look better than it was. I promise you, IN THE NAME OF ODIN
AND ALL THE 9 WORLDS, that half way through this exercise in controlled
depression, you will long for Thor 1. (With its really clever opening
-- essentially the story of a Boy and his Hammer, having been separated
therefrom, and finally reunited). Tom Hiddleston steals all his scenes,
in some places he is more interesting huddled in a corner reading a
book than all the CGI flashbangs and associated pyrotechnics combined.
Sir Anthony -- a man seemingly untroubled by how poorly this phase of
his career pales in comparison to his prior work -- is lost behind his
eyepatch and almost unrecognizable. Portman has never had better H&M
(hair and makeup) and in the chatgroups there are fanboys prattling on
about watching this with the sound off. A final factoid: In the 60s, in
the days when Marvel was only comics, Thor was never top gun, it was
the artwork (flaming yellow hair) and the pleasant predictability of
the stories and the arcane language that carried the brand. So far,
Marvel has yet to really translate this into film.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess it may be the fact that I never actually got into comic books
(beyond Asterix and Tintin that is) that this movie didn't really
appeal to me. I guess in another way that I did not find that mixing
the gods of the Norse pantheon with the world of superheroes really
worked all that well. To me it just seemed to be wrong. Okay, I
understand that Thor is the member of the Avengers, and the comic
series that bears his name is quite popular, but to me parts of this
film did not seem to work. In fact I found it quite boring.

Okay, I did manage to spot Stan Lee, and I did like a couple of the
twists at the end, but I am also glad that I missed the end-end
sequence (as opposed to the end sequence) but then I have never been
one who really wants to sit through a bunch of credits just to see the
end scene. Some people suggest that we should sit through all the
credits to acknowledge the contribution that the people made to the
movie, however that may be, and they are entitled to that view, but my
understanding is that if your name is in the credits it means a lot
more than just me seeing it. I my name was in the credits to a movie I
would rather potential employers see it because that is evidence that I
have experience working on a film set.

Also, the other thing that gripped me with this film was the numerous
references to 'The Avengers'. Now, I have seen The Avengers, but it was
over a year ago and I simply cannot remember much of what happened in
that film. The references in Ironman 3 were okay because that assumed
that you had seen the film but may not have remembered many of the
details (I remember a giant centipede flying around New York City and
Robert Downey Jnr) whereas this film seemed to assume a working
knowledge and deep familiarity with The Avengers, something which
simply did not work for me.
