
This is the epitome of pointless movie remakes. Never does a scene 
improve upon the original, or even introduce an element that might have 
been overlooked or under-explored from Stephen King's source material. 
It's not a shot-for-shot redo, but in its attempt to be faithful to the 
themes and subject matter, nothing is presented with any spontaneity or 
flair. There are no surprises and the creepiness of 1976's theatrical 
adaptation has somehow completely vanished. Do the filmmakers honestly 
believe they'll find audiences that are unaware of "Carrie's" plot or 
the steady build to the spectacularly tumultuous finale? 

Carrie White (Chloe Grace Moretz) is shy and odd, attempting to stay 
out of the spotlight whenever possible. At school, she has no friends 
and interacts with teachers and students as little as possible. Her 
mother Margaret (Julianne Moore) is a fanatical, abusively castigating 
woman, mentally traumatized from her own unhealthily zealous 
upbringing. When the misinformed Carrie has her first period in Ms. 
Desjardin's (Judy Greer) P.E. class, she thinks she's dying and is 
mercilessly ostracized by her classmates. Tormentor Sue Snell 
(Gabriella Wilde) recognizes her cruelty and convinces her boyfriend 
Tommy Ross (Ansel Elgort) to take Carrie to the prom as atonement. But 
bullying ringleader Chris Hargensen (Portia Doubleday) and her violent 
lover Billy Nolan (Alex Russell) decide to lash out at Carrie again, 
this time blaming her for their banishment from prom.

The opening sequence adds a touch of extra blood and distress to 
Carrie's origins, with Margaret's uncertainty foreshadowing the teen's 
own naivety toward her physical maturation. But it also warns of the 
primary visual difference with this update: highly ineffective computer 
graphics. "Carrie" is the sort of story that doesn't need to be 
augmented with flashy, manipulated imagery, so it's particularly 
disappointing that the use of CG only impairs the disturbing qualities 
of the blood-splattering conclusion. Viewers will also likely scoff at 
the inclusion of a camera phone, internet uploading, and a "Dancing 
with the Stars" reference. Slightly modernized recreations of 
strikingly iconic sequences are almost laughable.

Chloe Grace Moretz is sadly miscast as Carrie, clearly unable to convey 
the unsettling awkwardness, reclusiveness, and eventual ghoulishness 
necessary for deadly telekinetic mayhem. She's cute, capable, 
reasoning, opinionated on her own competent interpretation of the 
bible, and quickly learns to discipline her supernatural gift, which 
appears to drastically contradict the previously terrifying aura of an 
abused soul pushed to the limits. Instead of snapping, with her mind 
spiraling out of control, she is instead a lucid killer specifically 
exacting revenge. As soon as she dominates her otherworldly powers, 
she's a superhero - not a crazed, unresponsive medium of reprisal. It 
also doesn't help that the supporting characters are entirely black and 
white: in their interactions with Carrie, each one is either genuinely 
remorseful or a vengeful serial killer in the making.

Julianne Moore is more comfortable in her role, convincingly looking 
the part, but isn't scripted to bring fresh concepts to the table. And 
Judy Greer is a pathetically comical choice for the gym teacher. In 
compensation for an obvious avoidance of nudity, a Cronenberg-esque 
body horror idea is appended, along with a brief courtroom skit 
(perhaps for realism), twin girl accomplices (Karissa and Katie Strain, 
seemingly because they were handy) and a supremely out-of-place 
dressing montage (like something out of a romantic comedy). The bland, 
repetitive revisions to Brian De Palma's classic thriller repeatedly 
summon questions as to why anyone thought it would be fruitful to 
rethink "Carrie" so similarly, especially in regards to informed 
audiences of 2013.

- The Massie Twins 
<|_=00=_|>
Having followed this film from its initial announcement up to its
release, I can assure you it's not at all what we were promised.
Several interviews with the cast and crew members claim it to be a more
faithful adaptation of its original source; the 1974 novel penned by
Stephen King. It's not. No, Screen Gems and MGM's 2013 revamp of
'Carrie' is more akin to that of the 1976 film, which featured numerous
changes from the book - all of which are still present here. This is
only a minor gripe as its not an issue, per say, I just don't
appreciate being misled. On we go.

Moretz plays the titular character and, whilst a fantastic young
actress, she was definitely lacking something here and her performance
is just short of believable. Most of the time, it just came off flat. I
said from the get-go she was a miscast, but I was willing to give her
the benefit of the doubt - and she just didn't quite pull it off for
me. It would've been advisable to hire someone a tad older with more
experience, but I digress.

On the completely other hand, Moore delivers an absolutely brilliant
performance as Carrie's psychotic mother, Margaret. Fantastically
creepy, and while she may be no Piper Laurie (1976's original), her
superb portrayal is the best thing in this movie - and one that longs
to be in a better film.

Let me compare with the original for one second. The 1976 film slowly
builds Carrie's powers so when it comes to it, the prom destruction is
a complete shock. But here? Oh, no. It was more like watching Matilda
than Carrie. Levitating books, humans... you name it. By the time it
gets to prom, the extent of her powers are no longer a surprise and it
all comes off as rather tame actually. I certainly didn't get any
satisfaction from it. They cranked the CGI up to 110, however. In this
case, less is definitely more. Director take note.

The supporting cast do their best with what they're given, notably
Portia Doubleday as Carrie's nemesis Sue, making the film not
completely without its merits, but when it comes down to it, 2013's
Carrie really just feels like a pale imitation of the 1976 film. It
doesn't bring anything new or fresh to the table and it doesn't even
feel like it tries to, which I suppose is fine if you've never read the
book or seen any of the film adaptations. But if you have, you might be
better off taking another visit to that prom.

Like going to your own prom and not being crowned anything, there's no
real payoff. 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is hardly a scene-by-scene account of Brian De Palma
brilliantly 'Carrie'. Yes, it impossible not to compare any remake to
its original version, especially when the original is considered a
classic. It is sad that with these days' shortage of originality, even
a seemingly talented director such as Kimberly Peirce, succumbs to the
commercial appeal of movie-making in the sole interest of monetary gain
resulting in watered-down quality. Well, I'm not even sure if this
movie will make its money back, given the mediocrity in all aspects of
its quality. But then again, there are a lot of junks out there that
make tons of money. All the efforts for the reimagining, whether it be
an attempt to create a franchise or sequel or to modernize the
narrative has totally undermined the essence of this otherwise
compelling story. The destructiveness of social isolation, religious
fanaticism, BULLYING, to name a few, underlined in Stephen King's novel
were in no way conveyed effectively in this movie. There is a lack of
connection in Moretz's performance and  she is unconvincing as a
socially deprived and awkward girl. Julianna Moore as always delivers a
competent performance.  But she can only carry the movie so far. As
talented as Moretz is, she is a miscast for this movie.  As such, the
movie is moderately entertaining at best.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, let me start out by saying this isn't a terrible movie. It
certainly is not one of the worst horror movie remakes out there, but I
can't help but feel disappointed from the 2013 version of Carrie. First
off, this movie does not really add anything new to the mix. It's
basically a copy of the original 1976 film, just with a modern setting.
I generally am less critical of remakes than most, so the fact that I
didn't like this should indicate that it just wasn't that good. I found
myself bored throughout a lot of the movie. I've already seen the
original, so why do I need to pay to see the exact movie again?

The director really should have gone out of her way to differentiate
this film from its predecessor, instead of making a near shot-for-shot
remake like 1998's Psycho. One example of a remake that attempts to add
something new to the mix is Rob Zombie's Halloween. While that film was
pretty weak also, at least it tried to inject something new to the
storyline. The only thing I can say that was better about the 2013
Carrie is that the gym teacher lived. I never understood why she died
in the 1976 version since she was one of the few people that was nice
to Carrie, so her survival made more sense in this movie. Other than
that, the original far surpasses this version. If you haven't seen the
original, you might like this film as you have nothing to compare it
with. However, some that haven't seen the original still might find
themselves bored. One last criticism with this version is the prom
scene. You'd think with the special effects improvements between 1976
and 2013, this version's killer prom sequence would blow the original's
out of the water. Not the case, as the original killer prom scene was
much better in my opinion

Overall, this wasn't a terrible film, but cannot even remotely compare
to the original. Those that haven't seen the first film might very well
enjoy it, but for those who have, you most likely will leave the
theater disappointed. This remake was completely unnecessary, and adds
absolutely nothing to the mix. If you've seen the original, then you've
basically seen this as it's a hollow copy of it.

Final Rating: 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Take away the telekinetic powers, the hyper-religious mother and a
bucket of pig's blood on the noggin, the original CARRIE, a suspenseful
Stephen King adaptation directed by Brian De Palma, is really about a
high school girl who doesn't fit in. That fact is obvious just by
looking at Sissy Spacek's Carrie White, who seems as though she's never
belonged to any campus clique judging by her distant, dazed expression.

While Spacek was a natural beauty in earlier films like BADLANDS and
PRIME CUT, she was turned into a homely outcast But Chloë Grace Moretz
doesn't have any problem whatsoever: Lose the permanent scowl and she's
cuter than most of the girls, even the popular bullies 

So it doesn't quite work when sympathetic Sue Snell, played by an elfin
Gabriella Wilde, talks boyfriend Tommy Ross into escorting Carrie to
the prom. Sappy scenes bordering on awkward TWILIGHT romance gives the
impression he's one lucky guy with two lovely girlfriends But Carrie
has a load of trouble at home in the form of crazy mom Margaret
White....

Without further comparing this to the original, Julianne Moore, filling
the famous Piper Laurie role, tries her over-the-top best with spooky
long hair and an icy disposition, but acts more like a kooky soccer mom
in dire need of xanax than the main ingredient for her daughter's deep
rooted problems

Enter Carrie's freewheeling use of telekinesis Her ability to easily
manipulate elements, like a young Jedi or a Hogwarts pupil, makes you
forget she's a troubled girl who can't control ominous powers. In one
scene, as her schoolbooks float jovially around the bedroom, you'd
think she discovered a quick way of finishing chores or perhaps a
time-filling substitute for not having a Facebook or Twitter account. 

And then, once we arrive at the inevitable doomsday prom, when Carrie
goes to town with hellishly lethal vengeance, you'll wonder if this
entire remake occurred just to witness a group of young people being
slaughtered care-of computer-generated effects...

If that's the case, the maligned 90's sequel THE RAGE: CARRIE 2 covered
this unnecessary ground already.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely, truly dreadful "re-imagining" of this film. The original
came close to the Steven King book - this is truly trash and I can
hardly believe that Julianne Moore consented to be in it.

There was none of the original feeling of Sue's sympathy nor the
feeling that Tommy really liked Carrie. And where was the evil Billy?
Every single character was eminently forgettable.

I suppose money is money, though.

People, please don't waste your time with this. It is the worst King
adaptation I have ever seen. There is loads of material from the best
horror writer the word has ever seen - and we are offered this dross.
Watch the original: it's not perfect but it's miles ahead of this
rubbish.
<|_=00=_|>
I noticed that Lawrence D. Cohen, who'd adapted the Stephen King-penned
outsider's revenge novel for the Brian De Plama original, is again
credited with this adaptation. Did he actually re-write this or did
they just re-use his old script? Either way, I was shocked at just how
closely this followed the 1976 film. Much of the same dialogue, many of
the same camera movements (the pan shot up to show the bucket; the
camera beginning to spin around Carrie and Tommy as they dance, etc.)
plus weak copycat shots of everything from the fire erupting behind
Carrie to the blood falling on her from multiple angles (laughably
overdone in this one) are all recycled here once again. They even
cloned the silly "getting ready for Prom" montage and if you think the
one here is any less corny than the one in the original, you are
mistaken. It is one thing to adapt a famous novel that's already been
filmed and try to update it for the times, but it is a whole other
thing to weakly emulate another director's visual style when you are
doing so.

What few "new" things have been added here are sadly not to the overall
betterment of the core story. Including cyber-bullying in the mix is -
in theory - a good way to update it, but it isn't elaborated upon
enough to make it the least bit interesting and is presented almost
like an afterthought instead of it being an integral part of the story.
Images of Carrie's locker room humiliation being projected in front of
everyone at Prom were simply carried over from THE RAGE: CARRIE 2
(1999), where they project embarrassing videos of Rachel at a party. In
other words, this movie does absolutely nothing fresh or new with the
concept. Nothing.

Moretz's "blossoming" from an outcast to someone who could possibly be
accepted by her peer group didn't come off at all. The transformation
for Sissy Spacek in the original film was dramatic as she went from
awkward, mumbling Plain Jane to a nice-looking, appealing Prom date.
Here, Moretz looks exactly the same before and after. Her fresh-faced,
squeaky-clean appearance throughout the film makes it's a hard swallow
that Tommy (vacantly played by Ansel Elgort) could look at her wearing
a dress and then suddenly be like "Wow!" when he barely paid her any
mind before. I thought both Spacek and Angela Bettis in the 2002
version pulled this off better. Both actresses also actually modulated
their performances; something young Moretz simply does not yet have the
gravitas or skill to do.

It's not just Moretz who pales in comparison. Julianne Moore is one of
the best actresses working today, but she simply cannot compete with
Piper Laurie's go-for-broke, thoroughly unhinged portrayal in the 1976
film. Moore is simply too low-key and restrained to make the part the
least bit memorable; the same exact trap Patricia Clarkson fell into in
the 2002 version. Whiny-voiced Judy Greer is just plain awful as the
gym teacher and is absolutely no match for Betty Buckley's mixture of
strength and compassion. A key scene in the original film (Buckley's
character discussing her own Prom night disaster with Carrie used as a
sort-of 'calm before the storm') has been removed from this one for no
good reason. The fate of the character has also been altered; stripping
this of an important element of horror and tragedy. None of the young
actors portraying the bullies are able to broadly paint their
personalities on screen in a memorable or notable way. Portia Doubleday
probably comes closest in her portrayal of ringleader Chris Hargensen
but she still doesn't seem quite as nasty and vindictive as Nancy
Allen.

There was a haunting elegance to the direction, score and photography
in the original film and all of that is absent here. This film's
ordinary visual presentation, point-and-shoot cinematography, generic
music score and CGI effects do absolutely nothing to spruce up the
familiar story. In other words, what exactly is the point? Like many
other soulless cash-grabs remakes, this will be completely forgotten
here in a few years while the original film will forever live on as a
genre classic.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been eagerly awaiting this movie since I heard of the casting of
Chloe Grace Moretz. I could totally picture her portraying the
character in the style and feel created by Sissy Spacek and followed up
by Angela Bettis (2002 TV movie). I knew she would be a worthy
successor after seeing the film Let Me In. I was, however, skeptical of
the casting of Julianne Moore as the religious fanatic mother of
Carrie, Margaret White.

After seeing the film twice this weekend, Julianne Moore turned out a
creepy performance that should definitely garner her an Academy Award
nod. Her portrayal of Margaret White was an emotional witches brew of
fanaticism, insanity, and maternal instinct. For me, it was an
unexpected treat.

As for Carrie, Chloe Grace Moretz did a fine job. She had big shoes to
fill, and her performance does not top that of Sissy Spacek. However,
she does hold her own. In all three versions of Carrie, each actress
has portrayed Carrie in a different way. Each excelling in making the
role their own while maintaining the artistic concept of Carrie
herself. Chloe did deliver a chilling performance during the scenes
where Carrie is exacting her revenge.

As for the movie itself, I would describe it as a remake of the 1976
film sprinkled with some additional elements from the Stephen King
novel. It was very well made, and the modernization is appropriate
without being too obvious of the change in times, i.e cell phones, the
Internet, etc.

In closing, Carrie is an extremely competent attempt at remaking a
classic. As I say with all remakes, you have to go into it with an open
mind and not with the mind set of comparing it to the original. If you
do that, you will find Carrie is a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In the remake of the original Brian De Palma film, and based off of the
novel by Stephen King, Carrie tells the story of young Carrie White
(Chloe Grace Moretz) who goes through life being tormented by
classmates and teachers. The only person she feels close to is her
religion- obsessed mother Margaret (Julianne Moore). After a cruel
joke, one of the popular girls, Sue Snell (Gabriella Wilde) decides to
provide an act of kindness to Carrie by allowing her boyfriend to ask
her to prom. But along the way, Carrie starts to develop telekinetic
abilities that could bring disastrous results if she's pushed too far.

I believe that to compare this remake with the original and say which
is better would be completely wrong and impossible. Both films have
very strong aspects of their own that make them both able to stand on
their own. But to discuss this version as a remake itself, I would
definitely have to say it was VERY well-done. The film really gets into
the emotional side of the story, we really get to know Carrie and get a
sense of her loneliness. This in part is due to an excellent
performance by Chloe Grace Moretz in what I really think is her best
performance to date. She portrays the emotions of Carrie with such ease
that you really feel for the character and think of her as a real
person. But when it switches gears and her evil side appears, Moretz
provides a very chilling performance. We are also given Julianne Moore
as Carrie's mother. From the start of the film and until the very end,
Moore shows just how unhinged Margaret White is, and she does it
perfectly. Her performances leaves the viewer really unsettled with her
dead and haunting performance. As for the effects, unfortunately this
remake is filled with a lot of CGI. Does it completely ruin the film?
No. But it does take away a lot of the effect. The prom scene for
example, while much more violent (which I was pleased about), the CGI
was really noticeable. But despite this, some of the effects combined
with amazing camera shots is very well-done. One example being when two
characters are involved in a car crash, the impacts in the crash were
very cool (and slightly disturbing) to watch. 

So overall, Carrie is a very well-done and perfectly modernized remake
that lets us get in touch emotionally with our lead, plenty of bloody
moments, and most of all, amazing performances by Moretz and Moore. 

My rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
There was so much cut from this movie that it just seems poorly edited
and mismatched. Chloe is no Carrie, for one she is too beautiful to be
Carrie. I couldn't believe that they would have cast someone that
beautiful for the role of Carrie. Carrie was always odd looking or had
an odd look about her, Chloe was miscast. The characters were boring
and flat. I felt that Chris, was supposed to always be a vindictive
mean cold hearted girl, but in this movie, she seemed nicer and not
much cold hearted at all. I couldn't believe how they could say this
was better than the original, when it wasn't even as scary or creepy as
the original. This faded so far from the book and original story line
that it all just made no sense. They even cut the shower scene, a scene
that I always thought was a key point on why Carrie was so mad at
everyone to begin with. The actors didn't even pronounce the gym
teachers name right. Seriously? The co-stars couldn't act their way out
of a wet paper bag. This has got to be one of the worse remakes I have
seen in a long time. If I was Chloe, I would be embarrassed!
