
I don't think many other franchises has been as turbulent and uneven as
The Fast and the Furious films. Things started off pretty earnestly
with Rob Cohen's first film, but quickly careened into odd directions,
with the ever-cheesy 2 Fast 2 Furious taking off and running with one
main character while leaving the other in the dust, and with Tokyo
Drift drifting away with totally different characters altogether.
Thankfully, Fast & Furious realigned the series with its roots. But it
wasn't until Fast Five when I really began to give a darn about this
series. Granted that all films have had their fun moments, the fifth
film magically tied in every single strand from every single film, and
made every single character relevant. Best of all, it did so with a
great sense of fun: it had great pacing, amusing comedy, great action,
and it made the characters stand out as a collectively outstanding
cast.

So now Fast & Furious 6 has come out, reuniting the entire gang once
more to take on bigger stakes. The spectacle in this film tries its
best to be even bigger, more absurd, and more awesome than before: the
film is effectively book-ended with two massive action setpieces. The
first involves a decently destructive car chase in London, where the
villain effectively uses his custom-built ride to launch other cars all
over the place. The film's final act features a really crazy sequence
in which a tank roars across a highway, crushing other cars and blowing
up bridges. This all culminates with all the muscle cars banding
together to bring down a massive cargo plane in a fiery blaze of glory.
In between, the film slows down a bit, but there's frequent fist-fights
and pursuits, a few scenes of witty comedy, and there's one decent
car-racing scene.

Whether or not you really dig this film may depend on how well you dig
the characters and all their dynamics. It definitely helps to watch and
understand the events of the first five films, because at this point,
they've all been through so much and changed so much; for a late-comer
like me, who never was invested in the characters until the last film,
it can be confusing to remember who was who and what their history was.
Fortunately, the film does insert some flashbacks and reminders for the
audience's benefit. If you are keeping up with things, then the film
will reward you with a cast of endearing and heartfelt characters, and
the film's plot generally revolves around their continuing struggles.
As far as the actual plot goes, it's pretty brainless and absurd
action-movie fodder, and there are plot holes to be found. However, the
film does have the merit of presenting a cast of villains to directly
oppose the cast of heroes, and the story pulls out a few surprising
twists.

The film generally looks good, but many of the action scenes are
hectically shot and edited, and it can be hard to tell what's going on
in certain scenes. What you can see is awesome, but sometimes, it's
just aggravating. Acting is generally fun and enjoyable from the whole
cast. Writing gets the job done well enough. This production uses a
plethora of quality sets, props, and costumes, with loads of flashy
cars at its disposal, and some okay-looking special effects. This film
uses some cool hip rap and techno music, while the music score is
pretty cool (sounds a lot like Brian Tyler's work from Tokyo Drift,
which was one of my favorite soundtracks).

Best recommended to fans of the series, especially if you've been
following the last few movies.

4/5 (Entertainment: Good | Story: Pretty Good | Film: Pretty Good)
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this was unexpected! Going into this film I found myself with no
hype at all. I expected a good, fun and cheesy movie time and I came
out of the theater happy and surprised. While this isn't a masterpiece
of filmmaking it does achieve what it sets out to do. To entertain you.
And it does this quite good and sometimes it goes further than this by
showing us some amazing set pieces and action sequences. For example
one car, tank chase sequence! This is achieved by the gigantic
production value of the film. You can literally smell the money that
comes out of these guys. The whole movie you have this sense of scale,
and I mean BIG scale! The amazing sound mixing and design including the
music pumps you up and puts you in the mood! While the acting isn't
Oscar worthy it is very fluid and it doesn't always feel forced. The
chemistry between the cast is very solid and credible. Diesel and "The
Rock" where pretty solid along with the secondary characters, and the
villain was surprisingly tolerable. Another thing that solidifies the
movie are the effects. These are outstanding along with the
camera-work! The things that brought the movie down for me a little bit
where some of the stunts, and weirdly some of these I found pretty
amazing but although I understand this movie isn't supposed to be taken
seriously there were some stunts that were just plain unbelievable,
specially in the third act of the movie. And finally, the plot. While
not groundbreaking it did have its interesting points but it doesn't
drift away from the cheese factors. Overall I was quite surprised by
what this movie did and how the director and producers exploited and
used their huge production value. This is an example of a good quality
action flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I still can't believe I am giving a 9.0 to a film that is #6 in a
brainless action franchise!

I am not aware of any other franchise (except maybe, strangely enough,
f13) where #6 is the best of the series. Normally the energy,
creativity are gone by then.

Not this time.

I simply cannot believe how much I enjoyed every single minute of this
film!

There was even a decent plot!! (hey, for a film that is basically made
up of fast cars, explosions and fight scenes, that says a lot!)

However, I won't go into the plot - because there are some REAL twists
in it, and it is better to go in with a fresh mind.

It does help if you have seen the prior 5, but no sweat if you haven't. 

What really pleasantly surprised me was how funny this film was!! I
would say about 1/2 the film was gut splitting comedy. It is rare that
most jokes work in a film. Usually some fall flat. Not in this one!
every single joke worked. I laughed so hard that I know I missed some!

This is really meant to be seen on the big screen with a large crowd. I
can't remember the last time so many people laughed, went 'WHOA!" and
"yeah" even clapping during a film!

The film starts off with a bang and ends with a post-ending that will
make you grin from ear to ear.

The film deals with criminals who are obsessed with fast cars and like
to create mayhem with their cars.

Wall to wall action, comedy with just the right amount of drama and
love interest.

This could be "the" measurement for the brainless-feel-good-summer-
action film.

The only reason I am not giving this a 10.0 is because 1) it was a
little long.. the final scene was almost a movie in itself (but it was
a hoot!), and 2) in general I don't think any film is perfect. In some
scenes (thankfully only a few) there were too many close ups that made
it a little hard to follow the action. But I am really nitpicking here,
folks.

If you like action, fast cars, explosions, comedy....

run, don't walk to see F&F 6.

(and this from a guy who has the Seventh Seal and Alexander Nevsky in
his DVD collection)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not to fond a franchises that don't when it's time to hang it up
and let it's running time leave a good memory in our brains but for
some reason, the studios want to keep this franchise going but I must
say I'm glad they haven't because Fast and Furious 5 was pretty dope
and now I can say Fast and Furious 6 is just as equally amazing. I was
actually excited to see this movie and believe me when I say, I wasn't
disappointed in the least. I'm an action movie junkie, and this film
had plenty of it. I've been enjoying the F&F transformation from being
a movie about illegal street racing and stealing car parts, to heists,
drug lords, undercover agents, the cartel and now, even terrorism. 

There was plenty of car chases, hand to hand combat, shoot outs and
even a breathtaking ending scene hat involved an airport, a huge
aircraft and a takeoff runway that was definitely awesome to watch.
Doing six films would definitely bring the cast together, and you can
see their chemistry on screen, especially between Tyrese, Ludicrous,
the Asian dude and the south American beauty. There comedic banter was
funny. I was pleasantly surprised with our antagonist, Luke Evans. I'm
used to seeing him play the hero and aiding the good side, so seeing
him as the bad guy was different but it worked. Not only is a beyond
sexy with that shaved head but it totally worked. My favorite scene was
with Riley (from Haywire) chasing Michelle Rodriguez through the subway
and Tyrese and Asian dude's character chasing the other bad guy through
the subway. 

My only pet peeve was the dialogue. You would think that after six
movies, the writers could come up with more realistic things for the
cast to say instead writing all these cheesy one liners that we've been
hearing in 90% of all action movies for the past twenty years. Some of
the lines really made me cringe and I had to whisper to myself "really
Justin Lin?! That's the best you got?!" But the cheesy one liners were
overlooked by a few unpredictable plot twists that helped the story
move along.

But overall I give this movie an 8 because it gives you everything an
action movies is supposed to offer. Believable bad ass heroes and
villains, car chases, big guns, explosions, shoot outs, hand to hand
combat, sexy ass kicking women, beautiful cars, sexy men, funny
moments, an unforgettable ending action sequence, and of course a post
credits scene that makes you anxious for the seventh film. I would
definitely recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Initially i was a lil skeptical about watching this one. No matter how
strong the cast of this is and especially all the previous racers and
characters coming together, it was a SEQUEL and usually they are
disappointing. But this one i bet is one of the best sequels ever..
Keeps up to the name it definitely is fast, almost throughout there is
no dull moment and you just can't afford to even blink your eye! Justin
lin has sketched each character so magnificently, that you just can't
avoid it. Great storyline and full of past paced action, Lin keeps you
guessing in this one. The action sequences look for real and
impressive. Though all the previous stars are back in this one, every
single one of them has an important role to play, and every single one
of them looks good. But YET they all look ohh so fresh.. The background
score keeps you alive, and execution spellbound. Especially the 1st
introduction seen of Shaw and the car chase on Spanish highway.. But
the showstopper is the finale, the climax on the military base. Every
actor has looked impressive, Vin diesel is impressive love struck
leader out to save his girl, Dwayne Johnson as high on muscle supercop
(resembles the role of Roadblock from GI Joe), Tyrese impresses with
his comic timing and paul walker is good.. Sung kang and Ludicrous are
great too in the performances, but What impresses me most are Michelle
Rodriguez and Luke evans as the ultimate antagonist. He looks stylish
amazing and absolutely classy in his role. Probably the best he has
looked so far. Overall, the movie keeps you stuck on the seat, and yes
there is a bit of a surprise element by the end of this one and i am
sure you would be waiting for the next installment after that.. So make
sure you do watch till the closing numbers start!!! Fast was this and
made surely someone else furious for 7!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have always loved action movies, especially those which involve fast
cars, explosions, preposterous plans and daring execution. Fast and the
Furious Franchise gave me everything and more!! Vin Diesel is awesome
for his role as Dom. For me the movie was great in all respects except
one.

A NATO General, from within a secure NATO Base, gives away (or easily
lets a gang of robbers drive away with) an absolutely critical piece of
electronic hardware, which can potentially defeat an entire nation,
just because one member of the lead character's family has been
kidnapped is ridiculous. Juvenile. Unacceptable Story. Period.
<|_=00=_|>
I almost laugh at commenters who give this movie 1 Star. One person
referred to people as "morons", one said that having a seemingly dead
character dead wasn't original, and another didn't even see 3,4,5. Went
to go see the movie last night and it seemed to be much better than 5
in my opinion.

Similar to Fast 5, The Team(Diesel, Walker, Luda, Gibson, Kang, Gadot,
and Rock) is back, excluding the other two guys. While amnesia is not
the most clever and original idea out there, it is not something seen
in most films and gives writers a reason for Diesel to take the job. If
it were any other criminal, Diesel would probably refuse. The amount of
destruction, the customized drag racing cars, the fights, it just goes
to show how much The Fast series has evolved.

Fast 5 did have the rest of the cast helping out in the mission, but it
was just some small stuff. Undercover work, opening safe, helping
during the chase. Really, the everyone else wasn't that significant to
the mission. This time, EVERYONE has a major part in this. You have
Gadot with gun, Kang and Gibson get their ***es whooped and help more
during the tank chase, Rocky is seen beside Diesel, and then there's
Ludicrous standing on the sidelines. The members of the team seem more
important this time around.

What some people do complain about, and I understand, is that this
movie is less about Fast Driving and more about fighting. I get it; its
easy to feel this way. While very slightly sad about that, 6 seems to
have much more comedy and humoric jokes. They might mostly revolve
around Tyrese Gibson, but nonetheless the jokes are still funny. Taking
snacks out of the vending machine, foul mouth during the tank scene,
the grappling hook, BIG FOREHEAD. So while less about the fast street
racing like in the original, it has added a few more jokes and fighting
which isn't that much worse.

What does impress me most is the progression of the Fast Movies. First
the main ant was an Asian gang with Uzi's and motorcycles. 2 was a
white guy with 2 Spanish henchmen, 3 was a Japanese teenager, 4 was(I
actually never fully saw 4. lol), 5 was a corrupt Spanish police force,
and this time involved guys from the same breed. As mentioned, these
are not cops, these are the best criminals in Europe; they are fast and
deadly. They have their own set of custom cars that are faster to begin
with and have ramps on their hood. They have advanced and modified
weapons like the chips. Last importantly, "They Got a Tank". The series
went from something as small and minor as guys on motorcycles to
extreme drivers with a tank and drag cars.

I do honestly enjoy this movie much more than 5, though watching this
in a theater did hurt my eyes from all of the explosions and bright
lights. The engagement of supporting characters is a good feature for
the first time also, along with the twist near end. Can't wait until
this comes out on DVD
<|_=00=_|>
I want this movie to come out on DVD now so I can watch all the movies
in the right order :P. I also love how people clapped when they thought
Vin died. I was like have you not seen Tokyo drift? I also like how
they connected this film to Tokyo drift. I finally get the back story
on it. I loved this movie and am looking forward to them making more. I
am also glad they brought in Statham. I was wondering why Vin came to
Tokyo but now I know. All the connections in this film were done very
well. It was good to see the full team back together again and them
come back home where they belong. I am interested in seeing how
Statham's role is for this movie if he plays the same type he does in
his other movies.
<|_=00=_|>
A typical fast and furious movie loaded with machine guns,cars,muscular
men,chicks,..etc...so far this is the best fast and furious
movie,..very fast,enjoyable with terrific and exhaustible action
sequences,..fast and furious fans should watch it,..and i recommend for
others too,..actually highly recommended... it promises u for the 7th
part in the end which ends up in Tokyo,,.. the next thing i wont
tell,..because i don't want to spoil u'r movie. The movie keeps u
entertained with a very fast moving plot,...jay z and ludicrous's
songs,.. FURIOUS 6 is a pure action adrenal type movie,..and a must
watch,..GO FOR IT...don't miss this one
<|_=00=_|>
Nice opening title by the way...

FF6 have everything that a summer movie should. Fast packed action,
interlude comedy that makes us laugh, consistency, steady acting, and
not that many plot holes that could ruin the movie.

First of all, after the movie started (about 10 minutes), my mind kept
thinking about this movie should have a sequel. The action scenes of
FF6 have a nice varieties and also an excellent climax graphic, cause
its going up all the way along with the movie plot (seriously, i think
the tank scene is great and after that it could be an anticlimax, but i
was wrong because the plane scene is absolutely amazing). And of course
besides the car showdown, there was this nice fighting scene all over
the place. 

For the comedy side, This movie have quite a nice jokes that serve
their purpose (as an intermission between action scene), and classy one
too. Take example at the skyline-charger joke, that's my favorite one
(since FF1). Also, Roman Pierce's stupidity, and few other jokes that
go well for the tone of the movie.

What makes FF6 even greater is the consistency factor, and not just to
the scenes of this movie, but also to the prequel ones. Fast & Furious
6 shows that all of 5 movies before this one matters (yes, including FF
Tokyo Drift). They don't dump away people and proves that they still
exist in this saga's timeline (like Elena, and even Braga).

Plot holes... yea, this movie has some. A little this and a little
that, but in my opinion, it doesn't matter. What did you expect should
be a blowing mindless (sort of) action movie, and you got that while
watching this movie. Sure it gets kinda boring in the middle, but i
assure you that it'll all paid off once you get to the peak of this
movie.

To sum up, Fast & Furious 6 proves me something. After i watched Fast5
(where the post credit scene shows the picture of letty) and there's a
rumor that there'll be a sequel after this, part of me cannot help to
thinking skeptical. How the hell are they gonna make a movie that gonna
top this one (action-wise), and they just did. So, applause for this
movie cause it makes me happy... 8 of 10.

*P.S. you might want to re-watch FF Tokyo Drift after watching this
movie
