
I seen this film described as a, "David vs Goliath" event; Small team
vs Big team = Small team wins! That's it in a nutshell, but It's so
much more then that! Sure lacrosse is in our blood and our families
played for centuries - and that alone is enough to bring tears to
peoples eyes when they watch this on the big screen - but the imagery
and language of our people in a medium that will touch so much people -
makes me proud!

This new awareness of haudenosaunee people in popular media is way past
due! When's the last time you seen a native even in a sitcom let alone
a Haudenosaunee? You may know about the Cree, Navajo, Seminole,
Cherokee, and Apache, but how many people know about the Haudenosaunee
(a.k.a. Iroquois) league of nations? I love how this film incorporates
subtle facts about the Haudenosaunee and doesn't miss expressing our
sovereignty!

For those of you who play lacrosse and especially the younger ones
getting into the game - this movie is for you! Your eyes might tear up
and you may get so excited you want to cheer along - but you'll walk
out of the theater more knowledgeable and more importantly - INSPIRED!!

Niá:wen / Thank you to the actors, production team, and everyone
involved - what a great experience!
<|_=00=_|>
My husband, my cousin and I really loved this movie. Being native we
especially enjoyed the cultural aspects that we know so well. The music
was very familiar to us. We are happy that all people will have a
chance to enjoy the wonderful story, fabulous acting, and beautiful
scenery. This is definitely a feel good movie for all. I am looking
forward to buying it when it comes out on DVD. I would show it to my
class. There are so many things that they could learn from this movie.
I am also sure that my students and all movie goers can relate to the
relationships and other aspects of the story. I hope everyone goes to
see this movie. There is something for everyone to enjoy. Enjoy
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"Crooked Arrows" is one of those movies that even if you know almost
nothing about the sport of Lacrosse you get involved in the game so
much so that you might just find yourself yelling at the screen and
that is part of "The Formula" that works so very well for movies about
sports.

BUT 

If you start watching this movie thinking that "The Formula" is all
there is to it, get prepared for a BIG Wake-up call.

This movie has managed to twist Native culture, Traditions, History and
even Language all together so expertly that you are not only being
entertained but being educated at the same time.

Saying that this movie is an emotional roller coaster would be akin to
saying that Tecumseh was a great warrior. Both are major
understatements.

I'm not going to give anything away here because I really believe that
potential viewers should just watch and ENJOY this movie from start to
finish without knowing more than what is in the synopsis.

Probably the biggest compliment I can pay the movie is by saying, "I'm
Dave Furlotte and I'm a Crooked Arrow."
<|_=00=_|>
Joe Logan (Brandon Routh) is a local boy who's trying to make his mark.
He wants to negotiate a land deal with a casino owner. In order to make
it happen, he must get the agreement from the tribal council. In return
he is forced to coach the local Native high school lacrosse team.

Brandon Routh has never been one of my favorite actors. Ever since
Superman, I have seen nothing but stiff acting from him. In a way, he's
perfect for Superman, but he makes a terrible Clark Kent. He's
definitely no Christopher Reeve. I'm willing to accept Brandon's
limitation here. It's a workable cliché filled family/sports movie.
Chelsea Ricketts plays his plucky sister. While he's the coach, she
wants to play. Like many sports movie, the final game is too long and
too predictable. But it has enough feel good moments to make this work.
<|_=00=_|>
Plain and simple...if you like the underdog sports films (Rocky,
Miracle, Friday Night Lights etc etc etc) then you will love this. If
you don't care for them then you won't. The film is very formulaic, it
is practically lifted right from The Mighty Ducks scripts. I'm not
saying this makes it bad, I simply am using it to explain to readers
why they will or will not like it. Now as many reviewers have said, the
thing that sets Crooked Arrows apart from those other films is they
fascinating use of Native American culture. Now whether or not the
information they show is factual, I don't know. I hope that it is
because I don't think Native American culture is often explored in film
especially to this end. The characters are good, although perhaps
slightly one dimensional without any one of them standing out. Good
direction and sports cinematography leaves you cheering for the time
and will still make you feel good in the end. Is it unique? No far from
it. Does that make it less enjoyable? Nope not at all. Crooked Arrows
is a feel good sports film like any other.

I like Brandon Routh a lot. He might not be a leading man and say what
you will but he was a great Superman, loved him in Chuck and he does a
solid job in the lead role in this film. We all know the character, a
jaded, power hungry, rising company star who for whatever reason finds
himself forced to return to his roots and find himself in the process.
He pulls it off and he's likable and you will root for him. Gil
Birmingham does a good as Routh's father and one of the tribal leaders.
His role is understated but significant. The beautiful Chelsea Ricketts
gives perhaps one of the best performances of the film as the strong
willed, sassy Nadie. She is fun and outspoken and just a terrific
female lead. Crystal Allen is supposed to be the female romantic lead
for Routh's character but she is incredibly underused and the chemistry
between them is only slightly sufficient. She is heavily wasted in the
film. Michael Hudson plays Reed, probably the most significant
character on the team. Him and Rickett's have great chemistry and
banter and they should have done more of the romance based on the two
of them then Routh and Allen. The rest of the members on the team all
play their roles well but they just don't get any opportunity to stand
out.

Director Steve Rash isn't exactly a first rate director and yet he has
had his share of experience and it hasn't all been bad. He does small
little cute teen romantic comedies decently well. He brings that style
to Crooked Arrows and it works. The reviews for Crooked Arrows all say
the same...it is clichéd and it is, there is no doubt about it. But
there is certain a niche in the demographic for this type of sport's
film and the fact that Lacrosse is a huge major sport that as far as I
know has never been done on film and then Native American angle keeps
this unique enough to be enjoyable. It won't ever be an award winner
but that doesn't make it perfectly entertaining. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Crooked Arrows" breaks no new ground in plucky underdog sports movies,
but does offer a sweet, mostly clean alternative to some of the current
theater offerings. It's rated PG-13, but has no graphic sex scenes,
contains a positive message, and even a non-lacrosse fan like this one,
found the games edge-of-your-seat intense. It does offer proof that
sports movie clichés stay the same regardless of the ethnicity of the
underdogs, but no film's perfect.

Brandon Routh plays the reluctant coach of the Jackpots (later Crooked
Arrows) a ragtag public high school lacrosse team made of mostly Native
Americans. He's also responsible for negotiating a land deal with a
shady white guy, and is regarded by most his tribe, as a sell-out.
Tensions come to a head when his dad opposes selling the land, and the
council decides that dad gets to stipulate what Routh must do in
return. The team is sufficiently pugnacious (they start a brawl after
losing to a snooty prep school), but they need a coach who can channel
their aggression and boost their confidence enough to be serious
contenders. Also, they need much better equipment, which to the movie's
credit, is dealt with openly.

The players break down into recognizable types: the goofy, fat kid; the
insanely talented guy who needs to learn to be a team player; the
spunky tomboy who's got more cojones than all her teammates put
together, etc. The opposing coach who coached the teenaged Logan, is
blond, scowly and borderline psychotic - and at one point, in perhaps a
nod to The Karate Kid, bellows, "No mercy!" from the sidelines during a
game. Unsurprisingly, the team will learn valuable lessons in life, and
the coach will also grow as a person. As a Mr. Miyagi-like mentor
figure puts it, there's a reason lacrosse is called "the Medicine
Game."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was better than I thought, but its not the best movie about
(modern day) Native Americans. Most of the good films are low budget so
they are seen by a small audience. This was more mainstream than the
others. However it only had a 6 million dollar budget, so that's why
the box office didn't go well. They worked well with the budget though.

I didn't hate this movie but its not in my top 20 or anything. I wanted
to keep watching but I also wanted more to happen. A few lose ends and
missed potential. I also don't see why two white actors (Chelsea
Ricketts and Brandon Routh) were playing Native Americans. They had a
bunch of other real Native Americans in the film. I wasn't steaming mad
but it did bother me. At least some people were really Native American.
Everyone acted well.

Its not a movie I would watch with friends but I do suggest watching
it. Also I like that Lacrosse was in a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Restore pride to our people, and their game. That is your first
obligation." A Native American prep school lacrosse team is starting
another season. Another very long season. When a change is made in
order to restore pride in the people Joe Logan (Routh) is assigned as
the new coach. A former All-American player himself (although he hasn't
played at all since missing the big shot) the school thinks they have
the answer. First of all I will say that this is a good and
entertaining movie. That said it took me a little more then halfway
through before I realized why I was experiencing Deja-vu. The coach of
the down-on-its-luck-rag-tag team used to be the star for the best team
in the state. He missed the final shot of the season and is shunned. He
starts off coaching for personal gain but begins to grow with the team
and teaches them what being a team means. I could keep going on about
it but what I'm getting at here is that this movie is almost a shot for
shot remake of "Mighty Ducks". This one deals with the history of
lacrosse in the Native American culture and that part is interesting
and the movie is entertaining but don't expect anything original.
Overall, a fun movie to watch as a family. I give it a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
Crooked arrows is an outstanding film that not only teaches its
audience about the native culture, but also the real sport of lacrosse.
My family and I just recently watched this movie and thought that it
was very well done. Having native in our blood, we felt that it really
taught us something about our culture and it's traditions. Also we
happen to huge lacrosse fans, which is what prompted us to watch this
movie in the first place, we felt that this movie really showcased the
best parts about lacrosse; the hard-hitting play, and most importantly
establishing a sense of community amongst the team and faithful
spectators. The director really did a great job combing those elements
into one in order to give lacrosse the reputation it deserves. Crooked
arrows is probably the first movie souly surrounding the sport and I am
glad that it was. The whole cast and crew made a truly impactful film
that has something for everyone. This will most definitely be on my
Christmas list this year. A truly great movie that will always make me
feel like I've learnt something.
<|_=00=_|>
Just a fun little movie where the bad guy redeems himself and you get
to cheer for the home team. I flipped this movie on just for something
on the TV and pretty soon the four of us put down the cell phones,
tablet and ipod and were cheering on the Arrows. It had some pretty
funny moments, some Yeh! moments, fairly fun sports scenes and even
taught you a little about Indian culture. By the end, my 11 yr old
daughter, 13 yr old son and wife and I were giving the fist pump!
Parents, be sure and be ready to explain what vagina means. It was
pretty funny in context, but caught me be surprise. :) You could do
much worse for a family movie night.
