
The movie takes place on Bird Island, an untouched paradise inhabited
by birds who are naive and innocent. These good birds know nothing of
the outside world. They treasure eggs above all else, and are all
carefree and easygoing, except for few. One of these birds is Red, a
societal outcast who has had anger issues from the very beginning.
Eventually, his outbursts become too much and he is sentenced to anger
management courses, where he meets other misfit birds with similar
problems.

The birds are suddenly visited by green pigs, who are dumb but funny.
The birds and pigs quickly befriend each other, but Red does not trust
the pigs at all. Ultimately, the pigs reveal their true colors, and
leads to Red leading the entire flock in a "maddening" frenzy of
rightful revenge as well as finding the right means of dealing with
rage.

Everything about this movie is impressive . I can guarantee you this
great movie will make you happy.
<|_=00=_|>
I can not believe how happy I became after watching this excellent
movie. Honestly speaking watching movies for children is a thing I
rarely do. But after watching the amazing trailer I made up my mind I
must see it .

Angry Birds is a very funny movie. We all need to laugh in these hard
days because laughter makes our immunity high whereas sadness make our
immunity weak .

The story of angry birds is about flightless birds who are happily
living except for one who is called Red . Poor bird he can't get over
the daily problems that he has been facing in life. His angry temper
made him attend management class, where he meets birds who have been
suffering of disenchantment in life just like him (Chuck) and Bomb. Red
becomes outraged when his other fellow birds welcome green pigs to
their island paradise. As the swine begins to irritate him, angry bird
Red teams with his other angry birds Chuck and Bomb to investigate the
real reason behind the sudden occupation of the pigs.

You will enjoy an excellent movie with superior comedy, entertaining
adventure and amazing 3 D from the beginning of this movie till the
end.

This film is currently Number 1 in most countries and in the USA it
went straight in at number 1 ( A proof this movie is successful and
great).
<|_=00=_|>
Angry Birds is a great movie for both children and adults. The comedy
is simply mesmerizing and the adventure is extremely entertaining.

On an island paradise populated almost entirely by happy, flightless
birds, Red (Jason Sudeikis), a bird with a temper problem, speedy Chuck
(Josh Gad), and the volatile Bomb (Danny McBride) have always been
outsiders.

But when the island is visited by mysterious green piggies who steal
their eggs and carry them off to Piggy Island, it's up to these
unlikely outcasts to save the day and show the pigs, including
spokesman Leonard (Bill Hader), just how angry they can be.

Truly all my girlfriends in the cinema were laughing and having good
times including me during this Excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I'm almost 30 yo. Not the appropriate age to watch Angry Birds,
right? Well, I did it anyway. Great decision ! I'm not that crazy about
animation movies. I really enjoyed Zootopia, I laughed at Kung-Fu
Panda, I would maybe watch Ice Age again, but I'd rather watch a decent
thriller, than a really good cartoon. I went into the cinema not
knowing what to expect, the trailer was funny and appealing, but after
all, it's a movie made after a silly game (oh yeah, I'm not crazy about
the game, either). Then, it started. I enjoyed every single part of it.
Literally. I wouldn't change a thing about it. I mean, yeah, the story
could be a bit more complex, but it's a video game. You can't make a
LOTR-like story based on a game with exploding birds. I just loved the
characters, every single one of them being funny as hell. The jokes
were brilliant. I had to force myself to stop laughing at one point,
because my stomach was aching. I still had a smile on my face 2 hours
after the movie ended. I never thought I could enjoy a cartoon so much.
I could watch it all over again today, and not regret a single moment.
This might just be the best cartoon I ever saw.
<|_=00=_|>
Just over 2 years ago, I had never heard of 'Angry Birds'. 

Being 47, it's not surprising, however, my girlfriend

(who I met that long ago) was and still is a huge fan of theirs. 

So, late yesterday afternoon we went to see it and she loved it. I can
also say the same that I really liked it too. (Loved? Most likely.)

An easy thing of just about anyone to understand, 'Red' is a bird with
serious pent up anger issues, that pretty much fly out of his mouth
when he just can't stand something that's getting on his nerves. An
unfortunate result of bullying in school when he was younger. Which
many people of many ages can relate to as well. 

His rage at a father who berates him for being late to his kid's
birthday (as the clown), sends him over the edge and he winds up in
anger management class. Where he meets his future friends. 

Meanwhile, a boatful of pigs from a neighboring island have come
sailing in and extending the hand of friendship (Or are they?).

Showering the birds of the island with gifts, parties and
entertainment, the pigs are secretly 'hatching' a plan to make off with
all the birds' eggs and have one huge egg banquet. 

'Red' (whose house they squashed on arrival) is naturally suspicious of
them, tries to warn everyone, but they wont listen.

Anyhow, I'll stop the plot there as I don't want to give too much away,
but what I'll tell you from here is, this movie is really worth seeing.
I think parents can leave it up to their own best judgement of the
appropriate age to attend. 

The film moves at an excellent pace, the animation is great, the story
is timeless and there's very little to offend anyone over age 10 here. 

A great lesson learned in the film is, it's okay to feel angry, but
it's important to learn and know, when to let it out and for what
important reasons

10 Stars , no doubt about it. (END_
<|_=00=_|>
Very well-made movie, with great characters and a strong message. 

My sons LOVED it- they want to go see it again in the theater next
week!

I'm gonna buy the Blu-ray for sure - there aren't many kids' movies as
good as this. 

Animation was of a very high quality, the music was catchy as hell and
the voice acting superb. 

I wasn't expecting a movie based on the angry birds game to be any
good, but I was totally blown away, so far this year it could be the
best movie I've seen, period. 

I don't want to spoil anything, so I'll just say there are a lot of
unexpected twists and you root for the hero all of the way.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been about twenty years or some since I've been to animated movie
(MULAN,very nice indeed:)) But Angry Birds- movie just swept me away;,
fun, detailed, humorous (+++), likeble, and even details for an adult,
which children can understand, but in different way, you know.;) Water
was incredible!!! And the attitude! ; nice change for all this pretty,
love and easy- loving- main character. I did love the main character,
because of his coming out of a box, being himself and Terence...please
can I hear your response...:)...especially (Sean Penn).:) 3D was good
work, anticipating for a sequel.. I hope people will find this great
movie, which is not all about man and woman getting together somehow,
like almost every movie is all about: to get homo sapiens male and
female in the business, you know... Everyone can relate to this!
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday myself,mom and my younger brother(who was dying to see this
film in a long time)went to see this in 3D in the cinemas and we all
enjoyed it.

The film is based on the games app Angry Birds and is the first
animated directional debut for Clay Kaytis(who was a supervisor
animator for Disney and you may know him for Tangled,Wreck It
Ralph,Frozen and Big Hero 6 to name a few)and Fergus O Reilly(an Irish
director)and tells the tale of a bird called Red voiced by Jason
Sudekis who has an anger problem and is sent to anger management as he
ruined a baby bird's birthday party and Red loses his cool with the
child's father. From there Red(who is a total recluse and a bad
reputation for being stubborn) meets 3 more birds a grumpy bird who
just moans voiced by Sean Penn called Terrence,a wisecracking
hyperactive yellow bird called Chuck voiced by Josh Gad and a bird
called Bomb who blows up and together they team up together as a
mysterious pig and his crew are trying to steal the angry birds eggs.
So will Red save the day and be known as a hero like his idol Mighty
Eagle(voiced by Peter Dinklidge)?

The animation is brilliant and the voice acting is very good. The 3D is
very good I really enjoyed it and the story was very good. Now if I had
to pick one nitpick I would say Josh Gad. Now he was hilarious as Chuck
don't get me wrong he had me laughing out loud but every time I would
hear his voice all I could think of was Olaf from Frozen since Josh was
the voice of the snowman in Frozen.

Overall though I liked it since Animation is my favourite genre of all
time. Yes folks I am a 25 year old woman with no children and I love
animated movies so what.

I am giving this an 8/10 and a B rating.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it's great! It's got several sync oh pay shuns.

It's based on the cheapo video game app that rose out Finland's Rovio
Entertainment in 2009 to lock kids of all ages to their smartphones in
rapt revenge mode. The Angry Birds Movie is both a big-screen, 3D
attempt to cash in on a huge mobile app phenom and a funny ha-ha excuse
to party down at the multiplex. The movie is not interactive. There's
no touchscreen or digital slingshot that lets you hurl angry, wingless
birds at the green pigs who've stolen their eggs. But vengeance is
still part of the deal. First-time directors Clay Katis and Fergal
Reilly give this animated joyride an eye-popping visual palette and an
all-star cast of voice actors to bring this origin story to life.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently saw the film with my wife and two children (7 and 9) and we
all really enjoyed it. The story has enough visual gags and toilet
humour to keep most children amused (as well as a few adults too) and
uses it's gaming app heritage to good effect within the very simple
story line. All the Angry Bird characters make an appearance but with
the focus on Red, Chuck and Bomb.

The quality of the animation is excellent and complimented to good
effect with the actors voices, making it both fun to watch and listen
to. Some of the slapstick humour reminded me of the old Looney tunes
cartoons, particularly when the birds are propelled into battle against
the pigs, while many of the visual jokes in the background are so quick
and subtle, blink and you'll miss them.

If you and your kids liked the movie Surfs up, then you will probably
like this one, however you may see similarities in some of the
characters - Mighty Eagle is just a variation on the Big Z character
from Surfs up.

A film based on a gaming app isn't going to be deep and meaningful but
if you just want feel-good family entertainment and a good laugh, then
you won't go far wrong with The Angry Birds Movie.
