
***Warning - This contains spoilers*** 

The title of the movie suggests you are going to see the kids from 'New
Directions' singing, dancing, talking to the crowd and interacting on
stage. That was ultimately not what this movie is.

The movie starts out interviewing tons of frantic glee fans about who
they like most, and then one by one you see a few of the characters and
they talk. From there it is just one huge jumbled mess, there is three
stories that are being told throughout the movie. Three stories that I
felt played no part in the glee concert at all, and could have (should
have) been left out. The movie jumps a lot. It goes from a very short
performance, fades to black, and then starts something else (whether
that be a story, or a back-stage thing). What really bothered me is
that they really didn't perform that many songs, and I doubt the real
audience was watching these three kids lives.

Over-all I don't think that the movie was as good as it could have
been. They didn't perform more than maybe 13 songs (all of which were
shortened versions), the majority of scenes used in the trailer weren't
in the movie, they emphasized too much on these three kids who had
nothing at all to do with glee, and to my surprise there was a lot of
lip syncing, it was really obvious. Other times the record playing in
the background would be louder than their microphones, so you couldn't
hear them. Only their voice recorded in the studio, which is still lip
syncing. Only one performance really stood out in the whole film, and
the rest were really boring. The best part of the movie was getting the
free cheap iron-on glee 3D tote-bag.

Were the performances good? Not really. I feel that one night could
have been spent filming this. Instead of filming at a ton of different
locations. A few of the performances were badly lip synced, and sounded
exactly as they did on TV. 

Was it funny? Not really. The only funny parts were the 2 or 3 scripted
"back-stage" scenes where they went into character, surprisingly most
of the characters were left of for these scenes.

Does this substitute for the real concert? Not at all. I can't imagine
them really singing 12 or 13 *shortened* songs and playing a bunch of
videos for a concert. This should have been called "Glee 3D: The
concert documentary". If this would have been a concert, I would be
furious and request a refund.

Do I recommend seeing it? No. This was a waste of money.
<|_=00=_|>
Glee the movie has arrived in theaters and has been receiving
sensational reviews, some stating it to be one of the best movies of
the summer. Various reviews mentioned brilliant song and dance numbers,
fun and witty dialog, and behind the scenes shots showing the cast
getting ready for the concert. I'm here to give my insight on the tale
about the 3-D event of the summer centering on the musical T.V. show.

Glee 3-D starts out showing thousands of fans of the popular TV show
standing in front of the camera and giving the loser sign the show has
made popular. The audience, unfortunately, is subjected to watching
various die hard fanatics in their Glee attire as they tell the
audience who their favorite characters are, and in some cases why they
are. Once we get through the sea of Gleeks, we get a backstage look at
Rachel Berry, Lea Michele as she shares how she keeps her vocal chords
in shape for the show. A few backstage shots, which are mainly the
characters getting their makeup put on and saying a few lines. After
about ten minutes into the movie, the audience gets to hear their first
song, which believe it or not is Don't Stop Believing by Journey, and
in a pretty awesome opening we get an intro to cast of characters.

It's here I'll say that a majority of the songs in this movie are only
excerpts from the live stage show. Fans looking to hear the complete
versions of songs and fantastic dance numbers will be disappointed to
hear that most of the songs are only about a minute long. A few numbers
are almost the complete song, but these songs are few and far in
between. Although I'm not a big fan, I have to admit that the songs
they picked have a catchy bumpy beat. A few of the numbers even have a
good blend of dancing and special effects, but it is still not enough
to call this the best movie of the summer. I'm also here to tell you
that the dance numbers the commercials have shown are constantly
interrupted with shots of the Glee fans going insane in their seats as
they scream in excitement at seeing the cast on stage. To tell you the
truth, about half the cinematography focuses on the fans, a majority of
which are screaming girls.

In between the shots of screaming fans and show excerpts, the audience
is subjected to one of two different scenarios. One scenario is the
backstage preparation you were promised. The backstage is really
nothing more than one or two members of the cast, acting as their
characters in the show, making a couple of quick remarks to the camera,
which are weak attempts to get a laugh out of the audience. There is no
backstage rehearsals, no warming up dialog, and no good luck rituals,
so if you're expecting to see this you'll be disappointed. The other
scenario the audience is subjected to is getting an insight into three
real life stories about die hard Glee fans who state Glee has changed
their lives. Throughout the movie the audience gets to hear about how
hard these three kids' lives were and how they were considered
freaks/losers. However a shining ray of hope, Glee in this case, came
to their rescue and now they are better people because of it. Although
it is meant to be emotionally stimulating and inspiring, most of the
editing, accompanying music and what the kids say is more eye rolling
than anything else. I'm glad the kids' found happiness and acceptance
by friends, but the fact their stories were in a movie about the
concert made me feel that these stories were used to pump up the
already over inflated egos of the Glee cast. These stories really just
didn't seem appropriate to be in a concert movie and instead should be
in a documentary or a news clip on T.V.

Perhaps the biggest thing that made me mad about this movie was the
fact that it was only shot in 3-D. The whole time I watched the film, I
found the 3-D pointless as it provided no special benefits to the
movie, i.e. better depth in shading or things flying out of the screen.
In fact, I found the 3-D more distracting than anything else as I saw
the constant shadows of the screaming audience move across the screen
taking my eyes away from the film. Thus the only reason I could think
of shooting this film in 3-D is that they wanted to make more money at
the boxy office.

To finish up this review, Glee 3-D seems to be more of a fan
glorification movie than an actual concert movie. Although the songs
are sung in the fashion that fans like, and some of the dance work is
still as vibrant as ever, the screaming fans, and small song excerpts
were really not that impressive. Tie in the fact that the back stage
shots are weak and the fan stories that take up the rest of the time
feel overacted and you have the mediocre film that is Glee 3-D. The
Robbie score for this movie is somewhere between a 4.5-5.0, and I
suggest going to see the live show the editors of the movie threw
together to make this movie, it's probably a better use of your money.
Until next time my friends this is Robbie K signing off.

Please email me at rgkarim@mail.roanoke.edu to provide constructive
criticism.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the live concert, and couldn't wait for the movie to come
out to be able to see it up close and personal. I sat in the 2nd
balcony, so the kids were ants on stage, but I still loved being there.

I wanted to see the CONCERT in the movie, not the personal stories, or
the camera panning away to the fans (some of this is fine, but they did
that too often). They also did some fun things at the concert - skits
and the interaction of the teachers on the big screen, that were cut
out of the movie. The fan interviews would have been good to do at the
end, or put as extra features on the DVD.

The one thing I thought was awesome was the little boy who imitated
Darren Criss at the end of the movie.

Overall, I was hugely disappointed in the selection the producer and
editor made for what was shown to the audience. The kids are still
great, and I'm a big fan of their talent and energy.
<|_=00=_|>
Being huge gleeks my partner and i couldn't wait to see this but wish
we hadn't bothered. The 'movie', a term i use very lightly consists of
some of our favourite characters singing and dancing a bit on stage and
a good third of the 'movie' is spent listening to other fans comment
about how Glee has changed their lives. There are no set changes, no
real costume changes as such which combined with the filming of the
other gleeks commenting about how the series changed their lives, THAT
REALLY IS IT!!

And for one last kick in the teeth there were no signs of Mr Schooster
either!

All in all a pretty boring 1hr 45mins of our lives we'll never get back
and frankly if we weren't as big fans we are, this pathetic excuse for
a 'movie / concert' would be enough to put you off the series!!

A BIG let down and very disappointing!!!
<|_=00=_|>
First if you were fortunate enough to go see the concert live this
movie is a waste of your time. I decided to go see even though I was
able to go to the concert because I wasn't able to enjoy all the songs
because I couldn't see over everyone.

CONTAINS MODERATE SPOILERS: While I know they added the glee fans and
some of their stories on how glee changed there lives to be meaningful,
I really didn't care. I only wanted to see the cast sing and adding
those stories as transitions between songs to me was annoying and cut
you off from seeing all the song because they would start the songs
amidst the interview. Again if you were able to see the concert live,
they had some small dialogue in between songs (some of which you see in
the previews) which I feel could have let it flow better, but I'm
assuming they cut it because the songs were out of order in the movie.

The cast in character interviews while weird they were actually amusing
and I kinda wished they interviewed all of the cast instead of about
half.

All in all if you're a huge gleek or just want to enjoy the concert
then I'd so go see it, but if not then just save your money.

P.S. If anybody is wondering why Blaine is singing songs with New
Directions it's because during the concert Kurt asks Blaine to join.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a Glee fan. I don't like or dislike it. I hardly knew anything
about Glee before watching this movie. To cut a long story short on why
I chose to see this film at the cinema is because we had time to kill
in the day, had money and wanted to see a movie. Yes, so out of the
likes of 'Harry Potter' and 'Super 8' currently showing, why to choose
Glee? We wanted a new experience. And that's what we got.

I was aware that concert movies are... bad. I'm referring to 'Jonas
Brothers: The 3D Concert Experience' and 'Hannah Montana & Miley Cyrus:
Best of Both Worlds Concert'. Neither of which I've seen, but have got
bad reviews. They both boast about the fact they are in 3D, like Glee
3D. However, don't judge a book by it's cover.

Whilst settling down in my seat, aware of how many of the opposite sex
and crowded the cinema had been for a long time, I was wondering "Is
this a film only Gleeks will benefit from seeing?". The lights were off
and it begun.

One thing I noticed about the movie is that it's not just about the
concert. It's half-concert, half-"looking at fans and how Glee 'changed
their lives'".

The concert. It was very well choreographed. The dancing was great and
so was the singing. All of the cast were very friendly with the crowd
and I enjoyed that.

The fans. Their stories were original and they were touching. However,
it didn't make much sense. Admittedly, they were saying how Glee helped
them in life, but it seems it may have been a way to fill up 45
minutes.

The content was good. But you need to think. How is the concert shown
to the audience. The camera angles changed frequently and the concert
effects (i.e. smoke) were good.

The movie boasts about being 3D. So just how good was that? Average.
The microphones popped out of the screen and some bits like right at
the end where the cast released streamers were impressive.

Unfortunately, only the concert scenes were in 3D. So only half of the
movie feels like you're there. But I suppose the experience is like
you're at the concert, watching Glee at the arena, not in your cinema
seat. Still, shooting the fans' stories in 3D would have been a nice
touch.

Overall, if you're looking for a concert movie better than the others
where the 3D effects are OK, watch Glee 3D. However, more could be done
with the actual CONCERT. It is Glee: The 3D Concert Movie after all. If
you don't know Glee and want to become a Gleek, or if you are one
already, Glee 3D is for you.

5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
So seriously I am a fan of glee but I won't call myself a die hard fan
like those who went to the concert but after watching this movie I
think I've become a huge gleek.

From the moment the movie started and you see the fans talking about
their favorite characters I knew I was in for something good. I really
didn't mind the skits on those three fans and how glee changed their
lives being in the movie, I think it made it even more enjoyable. I
agree the timed used for those could have been used to show us more
songs and allowed us to hear the full songs instead of those 1 minute
tracks, but as I said it was good.

My only problem that I had with the movie of not seeing Mr Schooster. I
was like expecting him to pop up any moment in the movie and everything
would be just perfect, I've not heard why he was not there but I
supposed something might have happened for him to not been able to
come.

So what I will say to the producers, please give us another movie and
this time bring in Mr. Schooster and more music.

Oh and let's not forget, that little kid who was singing to Blaine's
songs was the hit of the movie for me. I just loved it. And Rachel
Berry and Finn are just awesome singers.

One other huge thing I loved was when Artie got up from the wheelchair
and was dancing, I just got up from my bed and started dancing with
him(lol).

So glee fan or not and you just watch the series because you like
watching TV series or you are a music lover then I recommend you to go
watch this movie and don't listen to the bad comments people say about
this.

This is my first ever review so guys don't be too hard on me.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie provides those who never got the chance to see people they
idolize up on the big screen: as if they were there. For people like
me, who couldn't afford the chance of seeing my favorite people in the
world. This movie is beautiful, I could of seen more of backstage
scenes and full songs, not the TV edited versions but none the less,
watching Ambery Riley sing to me "Ain't No Way" and Lea Michele give a
beautiful rendition of "Don't Rain on My Parade" <- Always a favorite.
This movie deserves more good reviews than it has been receiving. Also,
it's another chance to hear the beautiful voice and talent of the late
Cory Monteith. For me? That makes this movie worth buying too see his
shining face. Ever star shines on the screen. Naya Rivera and Heather
Morris both bring down the house with Valerie (Harry Shum Jr. & the
dancers add the extra kick-ass dancing to this song). Somebody To Love
takes it all the way home. This movie is: Dazzling, bitter-sweet,
joyful, and (cliche) Gleeful!!
<|_=00=_|>
Glee The 3D Concert Movie (2011): Dir: Kevin Tancharoen / Cast: Dianna
Agron, Lea Michele, Darren Criss, Chris Colfer, Cory Monteith: Glee has
become a phenomenon on the TV circuit where its characters all
associate with music while presenting a message where everyone has a
place. In this film adaptation we are given a 3D concert by those
associated with the show and they perform various popular songs that we
know from superior talent. If you're a Glee fan then you will likely
embrace its attempt at the box office. If you're not a Glee fan then
you will find yourself glancing at your watch constantly. The music
numbers are performed with great passion and energy but none of the
stage performers are remotely interesting. We are given glimpses of
fans expressing what the show represents to them. There are two
segments that save the film. One involves a homosexual who tells of a
crush he had in school and how his journal was misplaced and eventually
exploited. Now he is able to accept his sexuality thanks to a character
from the show. Another entry involves a cheer leading female dwarf who
tells of her date to the prom and her becoming prom Queen. These
stories are largely predictable but they hold together better than
anything performed on stage. Gwenyth Paltrow appears for an on stage
cameo where she performs. The point of the film is to celebrate the
popularity of the TV show and its impact upon its fans. It attempts to
touch our emotions through music and confessions with celebrated music
yet contains no substance. Those unfamiliar with the show may not be
gleeful towards attending. Score: 6 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Glee The 3D Concert Movie chronicles on the cast members as their
charcthers performing a concert for all their die hard fans. Don't go
expecting Katy Perry's Part Of Me concert movie cause this is nothing
like that movie which I think was better in my opinion as we get to
know more about Katy Perry. Here the cast of Glee are performing as
their charcthers with hits like Don't Stop Believing,Firework,Im A
Slave 4 U,Silly Love Songs,PYT and more. 

I've liked Glee since 2009 and this was actually a good concert movie
BUT there are some problems.

1. The singers: Now all the Glee cast is great but I think some of them
were forced and trying too hard also half of them never sang like Lea
Michele,Mark Sailing(who I swear to god reminds me of that dude from A
Walk To Remember Shane West),and Heather Norris NEVER SANG only lip-
synced. But Darren Criss DID sing as he was sorta breathless and I
think his cute.

2. No Jane Lynch or Matthew Morrison,seriously Jane Lynch is hilarious
in Glee as the arrogant coach Sue Sylvester or Morrison as Will the
teacher that taught Glee to sing. 

3. Gwyneth Pattrow CANNOT sing end of discussion.

Overall its a 6 for me.
