
This is a movie that stays with you. It's a real movie about people,
and a place--not car chases and explosions. I don't agree with the
mixed reviews and complaints about the length of the movie. Matthew
McConnahey is well-cast. All of the actors do a good work; Reese
Witherspoon, Sam Sheppard. Tye Sheridan and Jacob Lofland do a great
job playing the child characters. The Mississippi river is like a
character in the movie, which evokes Huckleberry Finn, as others have
noted. The settings are magnificent. In a sea of manufactured movies,
it's nice to see something that was crafted by human beings. I would
recommend this movie to those who are interested.

The audience in the theater I was in seemed absorbed.
<|_=00=_|>
Mud was very well-received by a packed house at the Paramount Theatre
for its Regional Premiere at Austin's SXSW Film Festival. The crowd
particularly loved local favorites director Jeff Nichols and the always
shape-shifting Matthew McConaughey. (How is it possible that
McConaughey hasn't even been nominated for an Oscar yet?) Mud is a
charming, entrancing film that has almost lyrical quality as it unfolds
along the rural backwoods of Arkansas's Mississippi River. The story
revolves around the adventures of two young teenage boys who meet a
mysterious drifter appropriately named Mud. Mud is hiding out an island
in the Mississippi River awaiting the arrival of his beloved Juniper.
The story has elements of drama, thriller, and romance. While the film
is slightly too long and the story has a few unnecessary and
distracting subplots, its overall eloquence and is absorbing. So like
the Mississippi, the story meanders a little too much. The River
setting becomes a character in the film that shapes the drama playing
out along it. The two teenage actors are excellent, but the film is
tour-de-force for McConaughey who is its heart and soul. Highly
recommended for those who like serious drama and appreciate natural
beauty.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into "Mud" with no idea of what it was about. I immediately had
flashbacks to "Stand By Me". That said, I think "Mud" is a better
movie. I thought the acting was exceptional, the photography both real
and lush, the lighting well done, and the story was fresh, real, and
terrific. The direction MUST have been terrific also, as the result is
a near-perfect film that everyone can and should enjoy. 

The 2 young actors (playing the characters of Ellis and Neckbone) were
amazing -- especially Tye Sheridan playing the lead character, Ellis.
Sam Shepherd was great as Ellis' "assassin" neighbor (and longtime
friend of Mud), the actor who played Ellis' dad was TERRIFIC and stole
every scene he was in. Reese Witherspoon was only on film for perhaps
10 minutes but she was perfect as Mud's white-trash girlfriend. And
this was Matthew McConaughey's best job EVER. (Until now only his role
in The Lincoln Lawyer was good to my mind, and I was tired of his
constant good-old-pretty-boy act in everything else!) I hope it was not
made too early to get consideration for the Academy Awards next year.
Although it's a lowish-budget independent film, "Mud" is sure to become
a classic! I saw it the other night with my wife... and I plan to see
it again soon with my teenage son.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it in Cannes a few days ago, and what a beautiful and strong
movie! 

And what a shame this movie didn't get the Golden Palm!!! 

I don't want to spoil this movie, but I can just say it's a rare and
beautiful movie about love, friendship, nature and wildness. Very
sensitive, touching.

The cast is great, Reese Whiterspoon, Matthew McConaughey, and the two
children. 

Great photography too, with great shots of the Mississippi (among
others). 

I'm looking forward to see Jeff Nichols' next project!
<|_=00=_|>
"You gotta watch yourself." Mud (Matthew McConaughey) 

In fact, everyone needs to watch himself, mostly the eponymous fugitive
and almost so the 14 year olds Ellis (Tye Sheridan) and Neckbone (Jacob
Lofland), who aid the murderer Mud as he connects with his lost love,
Juniper (Reese Witherspoon) and evades bounty hunters and irate family
members of his victim. Everyone seems to be running from something.

This crisp thriller and psychological study can be enjoyed on two
levels: First, it's a darn good chase story with Mud being pursued by
bad guys and Mud chasing his love; second, it's a coming-of-age story
as the boys, especially Ellis, sift through adult lies and compromises
and their own growing sense of love's importance. That love covers
parent for child, friend for friend, and boy for girl.

Although writer-director Jeff Nichols may be trying to do too much with
those themes, he succeeds in crafting characters we really care about
whose arcs promise to extend beyond the story, embracing universals
that extend beyond rural Arkansas. So important is the river to the
boys that inquisitive and ornery Huck Finn is as close as the next bend
in the river.

While the title could represent the dirty little world of sin on the
river, it also suggests the primal stuff from which Eve was made. Women
are the central metaphor for the boys, who already know girls must be
dealt with before boys can be called men. Yet, beyond dealing with the
opposite sex, they must decide who's good and who's evil, regardless of
gender.

That consideration starts with family and moves to the family of man.
That's quite a lot for a little film. It delivers. If my comments don't
convince you to see this indie gem, then consider the supporting cast
of Michael Shannon, Reese Witherspoon, Joe Don Baker, and Sam Shepard.
You'll crab there's not enough of each one, and that's all good. And
I'm not just slinging mud.
<|_=00=_|>
It isn't fair compare this title directly to other films, but I will
anyway. So here goes: Huck Finn with a dash of Deliverance, Winters
Bone, and Tree of Life. By the way, I hated Tree of Life, which WAS
beautiful but entirely too experimental for my liking (I would have
been fine with it as an exhibit at a modern art museum). But Mud is a
film that is a pleasure to look at, and also has a fantastic story that
weaves in poverty, youth, the loss of innocence, love, and violence.

The life in a small town depiction is completely spot on. I am from a
small town (West, Texas, which recently experienced the tragic
explosion), and the people, locations, and attitudes are completely
believable. Anyone who was a boy in a rural area will really connect
with the story.

The writing and directing is brilliant. It is the perfect blend of
pacing, dialog, and action. The acting all around is top notch. Matthew
McConaughey delivers an Oscar caliber performance; I liked this even
more than his role in Frailty (which if you are looking for a great
suspense / thriller, that is a must-watch). Supporting characters are
completely effective and convincing. The actors playing the two boys
deliver amazing performances; I suspect we will be seeing this young
men for decades to come.

I am hoping that this movie gets recognized as the outstanding piece of
film that it is. It is gorgeous to watch, and the locations feel far,
far away from a Hollywood studio. But this is not just a pretty "art"
film; it has an outstanding story that will grip you from start to
finish.

In summary, I kinda liked it ... A+, a rare and solid 10!
<|_=00=_|>
An exquisite piece of filmmaking from writer-director Jeff Nichols,
bolstered by powerful performances from Matthew McConaughey, Reece
Witherspoon, Sam Shephard, Tye Sheridan and Jacob Lofland. 'Mud' is a
beautifully shot film that blends crime, drama and romance into a
heartfelt plot that follows two young boys who encounter a fugitive in
need of their help. Set against some of the most unique and stunning
locations ever used in a film, 'Mud' is reminiscent of flicks including
'Stand by Me' and 'Night of the Hunter'. Starting off relatively slow,
the film steadily urges the viewer into a riveting tale of love, hate
and redemption, with McConaughey giving one of his finest performances
ever. A realistic and gripping coming-of-age tale that not only stands
as being one of the best films of 2012, but one of the best dramas of
the past decade.
<|_=00=_|>
Engaging an audience in a truly captivating sense of wonder is a lost
art form in the realm of cinema, or at least it has become so rare that
we begin to forget how magical the silver screen experience can be. One
of those rare filmmakers is writer and director Jeff Nichols who made
great strides in inventive filmmaking with his second feature Take
Shelter, a deeply unsettling and atmospheric thriller that reminded us
that the potential for original storytelling can have equally creative
follow through. Writer/director Jeff Nichols' latest atmospheric drama
Mud continues his notable prestige for dramatic filmmaking by creating
a pure slice of Americana; an evocative and poignant coming of age tale
that borrows the lyricism of Tennessee Williams works and mixes them
with the harmonious sensitivity of a Sam Shepard play, who is
ironically enough in a supporting role in the film, creating a witty
and insightful modern day Mark Twain influenced adventure. Keeping his
respectful gaze on rural America, Nichols creates an intimate
reflection on friendship, unrequited love, and youthful discovery with
a rhythmic, sensitive approach towards life's realizations during
childhood. Mud is one of those films where all of the creative outlets
from the ethereal cinematography to the haunting cinematic score come
together in perfect unison to highlight the depth within the story
being told. The film unveils its inner soul with a purposefully
meditative pace that might deter some from experiencing a thoughtful
approach but that would be a drastic mistake because it's one of the
more authentically creative and emotionally opulent movies to grace the
theaters in a long while. In Mud we're not only witnessing the artistic
stamp of a director who has found his distinct voice but also the final
stages of resurrection in the acting career of Matthew McConaughey who
has never been more focused or impassioned on the screen. While Mud
might not be as finely woven as his sophomore effort Take Shelter there
is no denying his latest drama's penchant for compelling drama enhanced
by the heartfelt nature of the writing, the clarity in the visuals, and
the honesty in all of the acting performances.

Read more: http://wp.me/py8op-xV; More reviews: Generationfilm.net
<|_=00=_|>
Two boys make their way along the Mississippi River to an island where
they find a boat up a tree, however they quickly discover that they are
not alone. A mysterious man is living on the island and when they
encounter him, their adventure gets a lot more serious.

The setting for this film is the Mississippi River. It dominates this
film as it dominates the lives of the main characters in this film.
This is not a film about small-town America. There is a small town, in
which everyone knows everyone, but most of the action takes place out
of town, out on the river, and out in the uninhabited areas of the
river's ecosystem. The two fourteen year old boys and their families,
are river people, making a precarious living from the river. Life is
hard but the people are hard-working, honest and resourceful. If Mark
Twain was writing now, and had not been seduced into doing graphic
novels, these are the people he would be writing about. In fact, this
film does homage to Mark Twain; Huckleberry Finn was based on a
childhood friend of Mark Twain's called Tom Blankenship, the name of a
character in this film. This film then, essentially, is a modern
up-date of that genre.

The two boys are played superbly by Ty Sheridan and Jacob Lofland.
Their characters are fourteen-years old, hardened and matured by their
environment. The two actors seem believable and natural in their roles.
Chris Pine was originally considered for the role of the mysterious
stranger, and with his blue eyes and young looks, he would have looked
attractive and charismatic as he encountered the boys. I bet he wishes
he had been in this well-scripted film. However Pine's loss is Matthew
McConaughey's gain. Robinson Crusoe was never like this. I doubt if
Pine could play this as well as McConaughey, who lives this role.
Actor? This guy looks like he has done nothing, but, live on the river,
all his life. You totally believe he is living on this island. If there
was a Best Eating Baked Beans Oscar, he would get it! A totally
convincing performance! All performances were great. Not just of
McConaughey and the two boys, but of all the supporting actors too. At
first you are unsure who is who in the families. They seem a little
cold but as the film progresses the characters develop. All are
believable. The female roles, there are three, are all strong and well
developed. The lovely Reese Witherspoon, star of 'Legally Blonde', like
Sharon Stone in 'Casino', shows here that she can play a gritty role.
Youngest actress, Bonnie Sturdivant, like the boys, got it just right.
Older actors too were great; Sam Shepard, who played his role with some
depth, and it was good to see Joe Don Baker in a small role.

All actors played their roles convincingly. As said, their lives are
hard; they are plain-speaking people, however the occasional bit of
laconic home-spun philosophy, will also be said.

This movie is beautifully filmed, lovely rich colours. The river is
filmed lovingly, so too the way of life. The film is a homage to the
life and the river. However while we see beautiful scenes of the river,
we see too the grittier scenes of urban decay and dereliction and
waste. All filmed well.

The UK rating of this film is 12A, though this reviewer thinks it
unsuitable for anyone under 14 years of age. There are many different
threads and themes to this film and it is unclear what will be
resolved. Friendship, family, life and death, love and violence are all
explored. The adult themes are not hidden. The boys have to try figure
out the truth and act accordingly. The film is very much seen through
their eyes. However we do see a little bit more than the boys see. What
is the truth? What to do? The truth is not very clear, clear as mud,
perhaps. No real judgement is made about the truth, or the characters,
or their decisions. Their lives are too rich and complex for that sort
of simplistic verdict.

So at the end of this film, a fourteen year old boy may have learnt
something, and others, so too may you. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Nichols' new film "Mud" is essentially a coming-of-age tale, but
it borrows liberally elements of neo-noir, Southern Gothic and
melodrama while being filmed as if it was based on some great novel
that was never written. It makes for a ripping good yarn that should
please a wide audience thirsty for drama with a bit of heart and some
sentimentality (without ever being sappy).

The cast works extremely well together under Nichols' direction with
McConaughey delivering an Oscar worthy performance as a troubled man
hiding out on an island in the Mississippi River who is discovered by
two young teenage boys (Tye Sheridan and Jacob Lofland in two winning
performances).

You won't want much more spoiled before seeing it. Highly recommended.

Check out full reviews at theschleicherspin.com
