
I'm resigned to the fact that "0 out of 124 people" will find the
following review useful (in the world of IMDb, dissenting opinions are
usually regarded as useless - quite odd, as I always enjoy reading
reviews that challenge my thoughts on a film). Anyway, here goes: If
the original Cloudy was like one of those Heston Blumenthal dishes
that's both outrageously odd and utterly brilliant - I don't know,
perhaps fried egg with jam and Rice Krispies - then this misguided,
saccharine sequel is a pointless pudding, an overly sweet dessert that
makes you sick up a bit of the main course.

Flint Lockwood (Bill Hader) lands a job with a shady corporation run by
his childhood hero - funny how he wasn't mentioned in the first film -
who decides to send Flint back to his home island for the
post-first-film clean-up, whilst playing him off against his friends.
The island itself is now inhabited by living beings made of food,
including a cute little strawberry with the voice of Eric Cartman, a
spider comprising Big Mac and fries, and a taco-dile that spits
vegetables everywhere. Are you sure this script is ready? The problem,
no doubt, is that Phil Lord and Chris Miller were only on hand to
provide the story and exec-produce, with former South Park staffer
Erica Rivinoja botching the writing job, and Cody Cameron (Shrek,
Madagascar) and Cloudy contributor Kris Pearn taking care of the rest.

There are a few good jokes - the fishing trip, the translation, Steve
the monkey generally - but it's largely overbearing sentiment, food
creatures with punny names (essentially a Twitter hashtag that got out
of hand), and Steve Jobs-based villainy, a sort of Robots/Wreck-It
Ralph/Jurassic Park III hybrid, with a minimum of heart, wit and
invention. I wanted something as anarchic and genuinely original as the
first movie. Instead, I got a film that's not only aimed at kids, but
doggedly conventional, and insultingly predictable, both in its
re-treading of old ground and its telegraphing of old jokes.

It's the most disappointing movie I've seen for a couple of years at
least.
<|_=00=_|>
I found the first movie unique and fun...the second was a bit less
surprising but it was saved by the puns haha

Some of course might not like the lines but for me it was funny when
needed :D 

Everything was cute of course and was perfect for its intended audience
(I watched this with at least 100 kids in the theaters...and all of
them loved it..so much giggles and kid noise) 

I was happy they didn't put much romance on it a hint as with the first
movie but not overpowering to make it romantic

Storyline- hm well of course it is predictable and there aren't twist
and turns you just know this will happen..it's a kids movie it should
be simple with bright colors and lovable cute characters

and Cloudy 2 gave that.
<|_=00=_|>
'Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2' was yet another sequel to be
released in 2013. The first one was a good solid animated film, not the
best but it was different and I liked it. I didn't watch this with high
expectations because the 1st one was just a good 7/10.

As in the first film, the animation is excellent with lots of bright
colours etc. Characters are well designed just the same as the 1st.
Everything looks good. The voices are mostly the same but it's a shame
Mr.T didn't return to voice Earl Devereaux.

There are some funny moments throughout the film but the storyline in
general just wasn't as good as the 1st. The original setting has
changed because Flint's machine is still running and the town is being
over run with food-animal hybrids. This was just a bit silly in general
and didn't have the magic of the 1st film.

Overall it was just a bit unnecessary and a sequel that wasn't really
needed. The title could've been more imaginative as well. I found it to
be much like 'Despicable Me 2' where it was OK to watch for the 1st
hour but then I was getting bored where it was just tedious. It's OK
for a one time watch but the first one is definitely better. I'm sure
the youngsters will enjoy it but the first one was more of a film that
all ages could at least enjoy in full.

Also if Chester V is Flint's hero, why wasn't this mentioned in the
first film? 

5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited for this sequel because I love Cloudy with a Chance of
Meatballs especially Flint and I didn't like any of the characters very
much in this film. Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2 was a dumb film
with too much drama and stupidity. Flint is not very smart anymore and
his voice is also super annoying. The characters are not very happy in
the film, Flint's stupidity and clumsiness has caused chaos and got him
looking deeply sad and crying a bit. There is also potty humor in this
film as well, with the underwear. Flint is also curious, naive, not
very talkative, and doesn't have a very big personality. See, this film
didn't capture much of the magic of the first film. It's like the
people that made this film has lost their intelligence and do not know
how underrated the first film was.

This film actually had some pretty good and interesting parts moreso in
the beginning before he started crying about something of his
personality that has like completely ruined the whole point of the
films. Flint's dad sung a silly song and the music in this film was
also silly.

This film was a waste of time, I suggest you avoid it, it's nothing
really special. I came home thinking the film would be more exciting
and better if they had thought of better ideas.

The only part of the film I can say was decent was the animation, which
was very close to the original.

I couldn't follow the storyline, it had a lot of plot holes and lame
stuff.

This whole film was like annoying and unnecessary.
<|_=00=_|>
Kind of what I expected but even better.

My kids saw and loved the first one (many times over). Then when my son
saw a trailer for #2 he literally begged to see it today the 2nd day
after opening.

The plot is a bit cliché but then not like it detracted from anything.
The sights and sounds, the funny little cute things, etc., is what it
is all about.

A point in about 20min in my younger son turned to me and said "I like
this part!", and he really laughed a lot. I felt it's aimed mainly for
kids, but then probably pretty enjoyable for adults too. Like they
sprinkle in some humor in places that only teenagers and adults would
get.

A fun film for the family, highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
2009's Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs was based on a beloved book
that turns out to be a really good and undeniably endearing adaptation,
and that's satisfying enough for us to live without any sequel of it.
But here it is, Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2, a film that gives
Flint Lockwood and the gang an extra journey to this whimsical world.
And surprisingly, it turns out to be all fun with wonderful animation
and some memorable humor, especially when it involves puns. It's still
extravagant for it to have a sequel, but if you're hungry for more of
these delightful characters and their preposterous adventures, then
this film is a worthwhile treat.

The main plot itself is immediately stale, focusing on that point gives
the film a hint of tastelessness. There's even hardly any meat to its
subtext which it rather mixes its random messages; it started with the
childhood idol trouble cliché, then to Flint's relationship issues to
his father and friends, and eventually tells an environmental friendly
story. There's also an irony at the third message that the fact the
animals, which are made of food, shouldn't be harmed, but eating
sardines is fine. I understand what kind of analogy they're pulling off
here, but then it gets a bit awkward when you give it a second look, at
least it's not a sour remark. It sparks best when it simply explores
around the context, which seems to be the only thing the film is
interested in. It also works better when the "Foodnimals" were
introduced, mostly because the characters are giving them names out of
puns and that's pretty much of the film's humor. Puns may be annoying
for some people, but it adds flavor to the gags.

Even a half-baked plot can't keep this from being entertaining, the
world itself is already a pure delight. Many of the cast from the first
movie returns; Bill Hader, Anna Farris, James Caan, and the rest still
got it by bringing plenty of charm and sweetness in their characters.
While the new ones; Terry Crews replaces Mr. T as Earl, but it seems
perfect enough for him to fill these shoes. And Will Forte also gives a
fun performance as Chester V. The visuals brings it to the table, it
has become even more eye candy than before which makes a good
recommendation to be seen in theaters. It's all deliciously adventurous
and utterly whimsical that made things a lot lively.

Cloudy With A Chance of Meatballs 2 is a piece of cake blockbuster that
is easy enough for anyone to swallow. I believe this is good for people
who need a little light entertainment in a while; as long as you're
able to not chicken out from the film's numerous amount of cheesy puns.
But in the end, you may get use to it, sometimes contagious, which made
me pretentiously use some in this review. It's still undercooked
regards to the plot, but the amazing technical work and great voice
acting covered that up. It's no means to be perfect, we just sometimes
need a simple funny and purely imaginative film to spend in our time,
and this is one of the good choices.
<|_=00=_|>
When I watched this sequel, I thought... no, I hoped - that NOTHING can
really be worse than the original. But there is a good line from one
writer: "If you go down... you gotta go all the way". Seems like the
"Lot of people" who made this film shared the idea.

I don't know where to start... Perhaps with the basis - child cartoon.
Unlike the original, this can actually be viewed by a child. Perhaps
some toddler around 5 years old. There is plenty of smiling berries,
marshmallows and the likes that serve a better cuteness dish than Fight
the Power cats of the original. And there is actually morale. Again, I
thought Avatar was the worst example of twisted logic. No. Let's
promote fishing and save all the cute living food, just so that kids
could grow up and find out... That food isn't magically pooped out of a
Santa's rear. It's cooked from living animals, from killed and served
plants... it's fished with hooks that kill you painfully. But no -
that's a cartoon. Living is good, cooking(yeah, that was the main
enemy) - is bad. Either way - again, for a child that wants cute and
cuddly, kind and caring - that is a fitting cartoon. Perhaps he will be
drawing with a brown crayon after watching it, but that's a
side-effect. That's why it's 2, not 1 out of 10.

As for the rest of you people, who haplessly paid for it... Well, you
can always get stoned hard. There are many movies that are supposed to
be watched that way, and I bet this LSD-addict scripwriter's creation
should do the trick.

If I had to put it in more organized manner, it would probably be like
this: 1. Crazier than original. Overkill. 2. Twisted morale. About half
of the story could be wrapped inside-out, it would still be a good
cartoon... except it would make sense. 3. More predictability than the
original. You know how it's going to end the first time you see
Chester. Oh, well, kids are dumb, right? No need to stay true to the
rules of cinema, to give the watcher at least the hope of something
unusual.

Conclusion: Everyone wants to be unique. Even cartoons. And, as
usually, when you just can't imagine a good way to be unique... You do
something crazy. Like flinging your poo. Sure, you will stand out. You
might even get top-views on YouTube! But unfortunately, for any logical
person out there... You would still be just flinging the poo.

And that's how I see this franchise. It is unique, granted. But it's
not worth "being" unique.
<|_=00=_|>
Ill start by saying I am 26 and I went with my 25 year old partner to
watch this film, I have to review this film solely for the reason that
people have been overly harsh with there assessments of this movie.

No animation film bar classic Disney really goes into any great story
lines or tries to really pull at your heart strings or tries to go all
in to win an Oscar, so for the people giving this a low rating I am
genuinely baffled as to why.

These films in recent times try and do the following in my eyes: 1)Show
a great imagination to capture an audience. 2)Create characters within
the film that will sell merchandise as well as be loved by the people
watching. 3)Entertain and show plot twists to keep the viewers
engrossed throughout. 4)Be accessible for as many age groups as they
can.

This film does all of that and more and is completely enjoyable. It is
smart, funny and totally awesome for kids and adults alike.

Films like this aren't ever going to be up there with all time greats!
but its films like this that warm your heart and make you smile!.

It is a great film for family, kids or even a date night.

Great film and look forward to number 3.

Enjoy and guarantee you will leave satisfied!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I love animations and visual effects so I love these films. The story
isn't excellent but I don't care so much is these kind of films. Pixar
is absolutely better in this, of course, but I love all these films, so
I liked a lot also this one. The most thing I like in Pixar's films is
that they aren't for children. In fact there're a lot of quotes that a
child can't understand. Furthermore, the animations are really great,
fantastic, gorgeous, something that a child can't realise and like
totally. Although, there're a lot of funny moments but it's not enough
for a better vote, so it's a 7, thanks to the animations. They are
really well done, and also the ideas of the food-animals, or foodimals
like the film said, but the story is just a 6. The first one was
better, but I suggest to you to watch both of them, if you like
animation films.
