
I'm not going to sugar coat it: this movie stinks. After the
gut-busting hilarity of the 2009 original, this comedy franchise has
been struck down with a severe case of sequel-itis. The carbon-copy
second instalment was stale for the most part yet still managed a
handful of laughs thanks to the general funniness of Zach Galifianakis'
socially demented Alan; this episode however, is almost completely
devoid of humour. The writing has become increasingly reliant on the
natural charisma of the headlining star trio - with the plot here being
laborious and woefully lazy - and the irritating Chow (Ken Jeong), the
weakest link in part one, inexplicably gets even more screen time to
screech and make our eardrums bleed. If it weren't for an amusing set
piece atop Las Vegas' Caesar Palace hotel and a best-for-last gag
during the end credits, I would've given this the one star treatment. I
was desperately hoping this series would regain some form and finish
with a bang, but unfortunately the wolf-pack's last adventure barely
makes a whimper.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hangover Part III (2013) 

* 1/2 (out of 4) 

Man, if you thought things couldn't get any worse than THE HANGOVER
PART II then sadly you were mistaken. The Wolf Pack are back and this
time a gangster (John Goodman) are after them because Mr. Chow (Ken
Jeong) stole forty-two million in gold. I'm really not going to waste
anytime writing out everything going on here in regards to a plot
synapses because why should I? It's clear that director and writer Todd
Phillips along with stars Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms and Zach
Galifianakis just made this thing either for the money or they had some
sort of contract that required them to do so. While watching this thing
it became rather sad because there simply weren't any laughs but what
was worse is that it didn't seem the group were trying to make anything
funny. This here is without question one of the laziest comedies I've
ever seen because the filmmakers don't even bother to even attempt any
laughs and what laughs there are are usually just winks to the first
picture. It's really amazing to see how this series has fallen after a
clever first film but the old saying that sequels usually end up poorly
is certainly true. Cooper, Helms and Galifianakis fit their roles just
fine but there's just no energy to be found here. Perhaps even they
knew the screenplay was lackluster. Jeong is good in small doses but
putting him into so much of this just made his character annoying.
Goodman was good in his part but sadly he wasn't given much to do,
which is the same for Mike Epps and Heather Graham. THE HANGOVER PART
III claims to be the final in an epic series of films and lets pray
that it really is. Bad movies happen sometimes even when everyone had
their hearts into the project. There's just no evidence here that
anyone cared about anything other than money. Part two proved that
people would show up no matter how bad it was and the filmmakers got
even lazier by delivering something worse.
<|_=00=_|>
You can't deny the success of the Hangover trilogy and its notoriety,
and yet typical of many sequels before it, The Hangover Part III fails
at almost every hurdle. From humble and I dare say somewhat original
origins from the first Hangover, out is produced a loud-mouthed, vulgar
and humourless successor. Little in this film captures attention in an
admirable light. Abundant is the nonsensical, violent drive that paved
the way for a series of good jokes in the first film, yet now no longer
we see the laughs, merely the stupidity left in wake. There is no
humour, no sense of longevity beyond a month or two, or even the
mildest gesture towards good entertainment. Instead, a monotonous
undercurrent of rushed scenes, placid dialogue and exaggerated violence
carried throughout makes "The End" quite well a heavy thud into
in-existence for the Hangover franchise.

Did anybody really expect brilliance? Likely not. Which is good, it
should just make this final flick a forgettable yet entertaining encore
to the previous films. But it's not. It's just a mess of too much money
and a desire for more.

Nothing about this film appeals, nothing makes it worth seeing. Go to
the park. Walk the dog. See something else. Just don't waste your time.
One day everything will come to an end. Prolong your success with a
final, exciting goodbye, or keel over into nothingness as one of the
many forgotten films of Hollywood. The Hangover Part III likely won't
dent the enjoyment most people think of at the first film, but it has
formally announced that this, truly, is "The End".
<|_=00=_|>
More often than not people end up learning the hard way that it's
usually better to leave a good thing well enough alone, which might be
a lesson truly lived in regards to the quality of what can be deemed as
The Hangover trilogy. When the exceptionally lazy Hangover Pt. II was
released two years ago it highlighted the immense limitations of
director Todd Phillips' storytelling capabilities as it traveled a
carbon copy of the first film's intoxicated mystery and amplified
vulgarity to different scenery but forgot to bring the laughs along for
the trip. Now it seems the Todd Phillips created Hangover trilogy has
taken to unintentionally embodying the stages of an actual hangover
with the first installment's introduction serving as the party, the
dirtier and lazier sequel acting as an unconscious blacked out sleep,
and the newest final part becoming a nauseous, unbearable aftermath.
The Hangover Pt. III: The End promises the conclusion of what could
have been a respectable "adultolescence" comedy franchise and after
experiencing the third installments descent into darkness and
bitterness let's hope it's a promise that is inevitably kept. Todd
Phillips and co-screenwriter Craig Mazin (Identity Thief, Scary Movie
3) have tossed aside all sense of wit, surprise, and genuine humor this
time around replacing those qualities evident in the first Hangover
with sociopathic cruelty, foreseeable plot changes, and zero sense of
amusement diminishing any admirable attempt to change up the plot
formula. All the fondness audiences have gained towards the characters
of Alan (Zach Galifianakis), Phil (Bradley Cooper), and Stu (Ed Helms)
will be tainted in this final chapter as a mixture of performance
idleness, poor script follow through, and a lens focusing on their
purely sober qualities makes these three characters less than
sympathetic, even bordering on incredibly unlikeable. What's ironic is
that Todd Phillips has gone out of his way to appease the vilest of
criticisms towards his uncreative writing and yet ends up highlighting
his true creative limitations by not being able to drift away from a
familiar structure. Unfortunately for fans of the series and audience
members hoping for a strong summer comedy The Hangover Pt. III: The End
ends this less than comedic trilogy with a desperate whimper and
through its mean-spiritedness becomes a barely recognizable thread to
the humorous and delightfully ill-mannered film that started it all.
<|_=00=_|>
You know that one joke you tell at every party? It was hilarious the
first time you told it. So you kept telling it over and over again. You
told your mom, your friends, your wacky uncle and heck you even told it
to your baby sister. Each time you tell that joke it lost some of its
charm and you know this in your heart, but you keep telling it because
it made you someone who was at least bearable at the office party. The
Hangover Part III is THAT dreaded, self-destructive joke. 

The first The Hangover was a surprise to everyone. It was a smart,
engaging and an all-around funny move. It made the three protagonists
into overnight stars, along with Mr. Chow (Ken Jeong). Since The
Hangover these four guys have experienced great success; Bradley Cooper
has been nominated for an Oscar, Ed Helms became a little more then
Andy from The Office, and Zach Galifianakis (the funniest of the bunch)
starred on HBO's Bored to Death and Ken Jeong is a recurring character
on Community. It's no surprise then that The Hangover made these guys
in demand, and had the audience craving for more. So what better way to
give the masses what they want than bringing the Wolf Pack back
together for two more subpar movies. The Hangover Part III brings the
crew back together for yet another wacky adventure, this time getting
them to go to Tijuana and back to Vegas. There isn't really much to
tell you about the plot that you can't figure out yourself. So it makes
very little sense to go in any further detail about it, and I can move
on to things that worked.

By far the funniest moment during the movie for my money's worth was
when some girl in the theater screamed out loud after seeing one of the
main character dangle for his life. The whole theater roared, and it
was a genuinely hilarious moment. Too bad the same can't be said about
the rest of the movie. No doubt there were some funny moments and
personally the best bits of the movie were when Melissa Mccarthy was on
the screen. Some of the other funniest moments were throwbacks to the
original. I found myself doing a lot of "ooh I remember that from the
first movie. Ha ha that reference is funny." Unfortunately that is all
this movie is, it's a reminder of how great The Hangover was and we
should nostalgia- laugh (is something I just made up) because we once
thought there was no one funnier than Zack Galifianakis. Other than
that any original content was drab at best. 

The best laughs came from all the supporting characters, and the 'Big
3' it felt like were just there to collect the pay check. Bradly Cooper
was by far the worst of the bunch. It's hard to believe that this is
the same guy who was nominated for an Oscar not very long ago. Ed Helms
and Zack Galifianakis were at least trying.

It was the overall chemistry of the three characters that made the
original so great. The Hangover was a perfect recipe of Mac and Cheese
where you threw in random ingredients and IT WAS THE BEST MAC AND
CHEESE YOU EVER MADE! You tried replicating the original time after
time, and tasted nothing but cheese and disappointment. It was just
another Mac and Cheese. Sure it was served its purpose of feeding your
broke student ass, but you yearned for that perfect gourmet Mac and
Cheese fit to serve Gordon Ramsay himself. 

The Hangover Part III is not a movie for people who are looking for
genuine comedy. There are some very funny moments but the cheap laughs
far outnumber the good ones. If you're going in expecting a repeat of
The Hangover then don't waste your time and money. If you were
disappointed by The Hangover Part II this movie will only throw salt on
your wounds. It's sad to see such an initially brilliant trilogy end
like this. Hangover 3 was nothing but one last attempt at squeezing
every last dollar from the franchise. The Hangover Part III gets 5
nostalgia-laughs out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Todd Phillips' original Hangover film in theaters under
normal, unassuming circumstances and walked out believing I had just
witnessed a comedic masterpiece. It had the luxury of appearing just
funny enough from the trailers and the fact that it was released during
the time where the Apatow-esque comedies began to take way after
something of a comedy recession. I loved it and believed it was one of
the strongest comedies of the last decade. Its sequel, released in
2011, was, to say the least, a colossal disappointment. It featured
mostly the same premise, with slight location and plot changes, and
wasn't assisted by creativity and curiosity in terms of where the plot
was going to go, unlike its predecessor.

And now the inevitable Hangover: Part III is out, which is unworthy of
bearing the franchise's name and certainly isn't good enough for the
Roman Numerals in its title. This time the film doesn't amplify
something that was done previously only significantly better, but
instead makes this a cynical, mean-spirited follow-up featuring
characters we grew to like in the original but now sort-of can't wait
to see gone. The posters for the film boldly claim "The End" and my
only response is "You're Late." The film reunites Phil (Bradley
Cooper), Stu (Ed Helms), Doug (Justin Bartha), and Alan (Zach
Galifianakis), the notorious "Wolfpack" who decides that after Alan's
recent stint with a giraffe on a freeway that he needs to be taken to
rehab and put back on medication. The four decide to travel to Arizona
together, when they are run off the road by Marshall (John Goodman, in
perhaps the strongest performance of the entire franchise), a gangster
who has been robbed off $21 million worth of gold from Leslie Chow (Ken
Jeong). Being that the Wolfpack were close with Chow, Marshall kidnaps
Doug and demands that Chow and his gold be returned to him. Cue the
barrage of silliness and misunderstandings now.

The main difference between the two previous Hangover films and this
third installment is that this one takes an approach more in line with
an action film than a comedy. I see something more reminiscent to a Bad
Boys III rather than the final installment to a long-running comedy
trilogy. Actions scenes evoke the quickest and most irrevocable kind of
monotony and with a series that is already beginning to feel like it
has been carried out way past its prime, this only cements it.

And if that doesn't turn you off, the belittling mental illness subplot
and the animal cruelty will likely do the trick. With Alan being off
his medication, the character is given the most screen time in the
film. Not to mention, Chow is given much more as well, and if we learn
anything, it's that these two characters were better in small doses.
Alan's dim-witted comedy and Chow's drug-related witticisms were at one
time fun and fresh, but now, stale and flavorless. Furthermore, this is
by far one of the most aggressive Hangover pictures in terms of what it
portrays as comedy. It must be something of record that a one-hundred
minute mainstream movies features the decapitation of a giraffe, the
smothering of a rooster, and the poisoning of two dogs in an attempt to
create humor. It's a sick, deplorable tactic that Phillips, who has
shown his talent for giving characters something fun to talk about,
uses in order to drum up either controversy or laughs or both.

Had the original Hangover stood on its own, not possessing sequels of
lesser quality leaching off its name, it could've very well become a
classic in the next several years. Not only that, it could've been seen
as a studio marvel, one that didn't need to "push the envelope" with
sequels and redundant attempts to break taboos. Alas, it is too late
and it's a shame the untold millions the previous sequel grossed and
the final installment will inevitably gross are put to two lesser
films. I end with the the encompassing hope that the taglines for this
film prove prophetic.

Staring: Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zack Galifianakis, Justin Bartha,
Ken Jeong, John Goodman, and Mike Epps. Directed by: Todd Phillips.
<|_=00=_|>
This is NOT a comedy in any way shape or form. It takes the characters
from the first two films to a dark conclusion but absolutely none of it
was fun or funny in any way. It's not just expectations talking because
I watched it with lowered expectations. That's not to say it's
completely uninteresting because somehow you care what happens to these
guys even though the story presented here is very shallow.

I honestly didn't laugh even once until after the conclusion. Even
then, a few minor chuckles at best (the pants/"pornographie" actions
and comment) and the after credits stuff is mildly amusing. This was a
very strange way to end a trilogy that started with what I found to be
comedy gold.
<|_=00=_|>
Did The Hangover Part 2 need to be made? No is the answer to that
question, definitely not. Did The Hangover Part 3 need to be made? Well
they went ahead and made the second one so I guess they had to make
this one really. And while it wasn't The Hangover film I was hoping
for, it's still a fitting finale to the trilogy.

So is the film funny I hear you cry...well kind of. Some of the jokes
fall disastrously flat but the ones that work really do work. And as
you'd expect, most of the humor is contributed by Zach Galifianakis as
the ever eccentric Alan and Ken Jeong as the man of sheer chaos, Leslie
Chow. Forget Bradley Cooper and Ed Helms' characters, Alan and Mr Chow
are the stars of this show. Which was to be expected as the whole film
is built around their exploits and curiously strange friendship.

So is this better than the second installment? Yes it is. Is it better
than the original? Nowhere near. But you'll still have a great time if
you're a fan of the franchise in general. The film's main set piece at
Caesars Palace is worth the ticket price alone.
<|_=00=_|>
This film should have been put in a recycle bin to make some plastic
Dixie cups from. 4 or 5 plastic cups would have been a much better use
of the material. Its hard for me to believe Cooper and Helms agreed to
participate in this abomination.

Trouble with this film is its for a 12 or 13 year old, but you need to
be 17 to get in and see it. Also the few chuckles in the audience
sounded like they were from a 79 - 80 IQ patron.

If you are a 40 year old adolescent or have a room temp IQ you may find
this amusing. A level beneath fart jokes, this expletive laden
non-script couldn't give anyone a chance to act even if they had the
skills.

I wish I'd have spent the 90 minutes reorganizing my garage or deleting
old emails - and I'm not kidding at all. Hope this saves you an
excruciating time (and $) this holiday weekend.
<|_=00=_|>
What a disappointment. As someone who actually thought Hangover II was
even funnier than the original, I was looking forward to seeing the
third installment which promised to take us back to where it all
started "Las Vegas" with more of the same humor?? How wrong I was to
believe that! Gone was the spontaneous feeling you got from the
Wolfpack waking up not knowing what has happened to them, which I felt
was the most interesting part of the first 2 movies as you followed the
characters as they hunted for clues into the night before! In this 3rd
serving we get a boringly flimsy storyline that dragged on, very few
laughs, a short visit to LV and a script that could have been written
by a ten year old! Stu (Ed Helms) has few interesting scenes and is for
some strange reason constantly put down by Alan (Zach Galifianakis, who
has now been given the central role of the movie along with Leslie
Chow(Ken Jeong) who's antics were bordering on childish stupidity.
Bradley Cooper who plays Phil was given more time and lines but failed
to be convincing in the delivery of the character. Sadly this was a
movie too far for the writer/s as it was totally unimaginative and as I
said at the beginning extremely disappointing.
