
I am a Soviet submarine officer, retired. I have to notice that this
film contains a lot of fakes. Here the fakes I faced with during first
10 minutes: 1. We never rose our greatcoat collars, 2. In Russian (as
well as in Soviet) army it is forbidden to give a salute without
headress, 3. It is absolutely impossible if a Soviet officer get
married in church. All Soviet officers were members of communistic
party and marriage in church was considered as a breach of discipline.
4. There is no benches in Russian Orthodox churches. 5. The Captain
wears American underwear. 6. The Captain of Soviet submarine is an
epileptic??? This is an absolute nonsense. 7. Names of Soviet officers
- Demy, Bruni, Alex??? 8. Any Soviet officer was restricted to travel
abroad except maybe socialist countries and in the film the character
travels to New York! 9. Submarine technician officer is a
claustrophobic????
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I am not a fan of Independent movies and find most boring or
to artsy. I heard about Phantom for the first time when I watched a
late night TV talk show. My interest was peaked so I went to see it an
the local theater that shows this Independent movies. From the opening
scene, I was hooked. My only issue was that unless you had seen other
movies of this type, with the cast speaking English right from the
beginning, you did not know that this was supposed to be Russian. But
if you listened you could hear that they were talking about Russian
locations, but the people that went with me had to ask me about 15
minutes into it if this was supposed to be Russian Navy. This movie
hooks you and draws you into the life aboard a WW2 Era sub. Having
actually been on this old sub as it sat in mothballs, I can tell you
that there is no room for camera gear and how they filmed the inside
with crew boggles me. Duchovny and Harris were spectacular in this
movie and made the movie believable. The story line was very
interesting and I was sad to see the movie end, but being based on a
true story really peaked my interest and now I need more information.
Please go see this movie, support this filmmaker, I am not associated
with any of the movie or players, but for a Non Independent film
watcher to love an Independent movie is really saying something.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a fan of war movies or cold war submarine movies, BUT went to see
this because Ed Harris and Lance Henriksen were in it. To my complete
surprise it drew me in and would not let me go. They obviously used an
authentic submarine and the claustrophobic, this sub is going to just
implode any minute feel, had me on edge. The cast included David
Duchovny, William Fichtner, Sean Patrick Flannery, Johnathan Schaech,
etc.. Did it have ' "action" - yes, but the meat of the movie was the
interaction of the characters, the terror of the time - nuclear
annihilation, personal guilt, love, friendship, bravery, and hatred and
fear that breeds radical actions. You will regret not seeing this
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I've read the reviews of others and I was surprised to see such a
strong polarizing. People either loved or completely hated the film. I
am no expert in Russian Navy protocol, subs or war in general, so that
is probably why I liked it. I didn't like it too much, though; even if
it has a stellar cast, it is rather average and that is how I will rate
it. However I see it as a decent sub movie.

To summarize a few reviews, people hated the American actors that
pretended to be Russians without Russian accents. That is so ridiculous
that I will not even deign it with an analysis. If you can't like a
story unless sugar spooned to you, then it's your problem. Then there
were people that reported erroneous depictions of Russian life, beliefs
and reality in the 60's. I can't argue with that, but then again, the
slip-ups were minor and one can easily ignore them if having good
intentions. The rest of the film was pretty much a combination of Red
October and The Abyss (how come nobody noticed that? :) ) which were
both movies I liked.

Bottom line: I considered this film a reasonable achievement, even
before I learned it was an independent film with only 18$mil as a
budget. I personally liked it and can't account for many negative
issues with the movie. Is it awesome? No. But I had fun watching it and
was not bored at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Go see this film - you will love it! It boasts a fantastic story -
fascinating characters and an oh so quiet -but action-packed scene
chewing! Ed Harris is one of the finest actors like, EVER- the second
officer is William Fichtner, whom I didn't know, but you guys probably
do. And of course David Duchovnny whom I adore,though he didn't
convince me AT FIRST as believable his character - he plays a bad guy,
a rogue KGB agent. But as the movie progressed, so did his
character.Duchovny will always be "Fox Mulder" to me. Ed Harris
elevates ANYTHING he does to a 10 for me, so for he and Fichtner's
portrayal 10/10 all the way! 

If you love war movies ( which I have from the time I was a little
girl), if you love boat or submarine movies,(which I do) if you are
terrified by the thought of nuclear annihilation ( which I have always
been since my elementary school days of "Duck and Cover" and that giant
awful and most destruction "mushroom cloud", which I have always), if
you want to feel a knot of a tension ball in your gut, if you want to
experience the claustrophobic , experience of a submariner GO SEE THIS
FILM! Not a moment of it's short run time is wasted. Oh if you are late
to the film by 5 minutes - you will miss our beloved Lance Hendriksen-
so don't be late!(Boy , is he ever looking old!) This movie ain't"
glasnost"( look it up kids)- and poses THEE most terrifying existential
"what if" scenario. It draws you in immediately. Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for "Phantom" and read the details of what it is
about I immediately got the feeling that it was going to be a really
good movie and that I had to go see it. Ed Harris brings depth to any
character he plays, and his portrayal as Demi, the captain of a Soviet
submarine with a few skeletons in his closet is no exception. Given one
last command at a time when the Cold War tensions between the
super-powers are at an all time high, he must battle more than the
Americans, he must battle the enemy within his own ranks. David
Duchovny is brilliant as Bruni, the radical KGB agent on board who is
bent on taking command of the submarine and firing a nuclear missile
aimed at the United States. The twist to this is that the submarine is
also armed with a secret weapon called the "Phantom" that will give off
a signature signal that will lead the Americans to believe that the
missile was launched from a Red Chinese submarine instead of a Soviet
one. Bruni and other members of the KBG believe this will trigger an
all out nuclear war between China and the United States and allow the
Soviet Union to sit back and survive the holocaust unscathed. Tensions
run high as Captain Demi and other loyal crew members work to diffuse
the missiles warhead and retake control of the sub from the KGB agents.
"Phantom" is loosely based on the true events involving the Soviet
submarine K-129 in 1968.

As I sat back and enjoyed this movie I must admit that at first I found
myself thinking of David Duchovny's character as being Fox Mulder. I
think there are a few "X-Files" episodes that involved submarines,
specifically the 17th episode of the second season titled "End Game"
which led me to feel that way. However, as the movie went along and
Duchovny's character Bruni developed I got over that feeling.... This
is a very good solid movie and I highly recommend seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Inspired by actual events in 1968

In 1968, a Russian diesel submarine goes out for one last mission and
then it will be given to the Chinese. Captain Demi (Ed Harris) believes
Bruni (David Duchovny), a KGB operative, has plans to take over the
ship and start a nuclear war. Bruni will use Phantom to accomplish his
mission. How to stop him?

I may be dating myself, but I couldn't help thinking of Richard Widmark
during this movie. This was his kind of movie and Ed Harris does an
Oscar Worthy job filling in for our departed (2008) friend. Kudos. 

The language was all in English, not English with broken Russian
accents. That was a good move as nothing was lost in translation by
doing this. 

The acting by all was excellent. There was good suspense and tension
with the music helping. 

This was thoroughly enjoyable and the last scenes were heartfelt and
very, very clever. Keep a box of Kleenex handy as you may need it. Did
I mention that the last scenes were very clever?

There is a statement at the end that says in 1968 a Russian submarine
went missing and all is still classified by both the Russian and
American governments. (9/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: Yes, not much though.
<|_=00=_|>
Phantom is a drama that draws you into the reality of military life in
the tight quarters of a submarine. A dramatically charged thriller,
with submarine close-quarter shoot-outs and fistfights. It was
especially interesting reviews were critical of the filmmakers' choice
to not use Russian diction or accents, but because the ships' crew were
only Russian and there was no need to differentiate the Russians from
any other sect, it works well and allows the viewer the advantage of
clarity of dialogue. Once the movie is underway, I found the lack of
accent was a plus because it gave the film a more universal feel; it
shows this human drama could be of any ethnicity. Yes, the story line
is of a few rogue Russians wanting to do harm to the United States, but
in the progression of the story one realizes this could be any
country's agenda. The cast is quite great and each of the actors'
characters are definitely believable. Harris, Duchovny, Fichtner, and
Schaech portrayals are spot-on. Each of them draw you into their
character's psyche and propel you deep within the motivations of
action. Fichtner and Schaech perform as true professionals; really
believable and quite riveting in their actions and sometimes
non-actions. Schaech always brings his best to the screen, making his
character shine; proving himself once again to be a great character
actor and, as we know, also able to carry a lead role because of his
great diversity and good looks. Kudos to the cast and crew and
especially, for me, the casting director. Great choices all the way
around! A drama thriller you should not miss!
<|_=00=_|>
Very well acted, with a great cast. If you are fan of Red October you
will like this movie. The sub plot about the captain was unnecessary.
Ed Harris does a great job in delivering his character. 

Story is well told, although not new. I am surprised that this didn't
do better in general release. William Fitchner should also be pointed
out as an actor who always delivers good character roles.

I like the fact that they didn't try to have the actors deliver lines
in broken Russian/English. We didn't need to hear bad accents to
believe that this is a Russian boat. They didn't try to make the
characters appear more 'Russian' by giving into stereo types.
<|_=00=_|>
Submarine films are few and far between - which is a shame, because
there are few settings which breed tension in the way that a steel
coffin submerged 200m below the sea's surface can. 'Phantom' isn't
groundbreaking, but if you're after tension, heroism, drama and
bravery, few current new releases deliver in the way that this movie
does. There are a few real tearjerker moments - and at the end of the
day, the movie does what it says on the box. Submarine. Conflict.
Awesome. Sure, it's not going to fetch many stars from the art-house
crowd - but if you want a simple, tense actioner; that doesn't ask you
to suspend belief too much - you could do much, much worse.
