
I don't know who keeps asking movies about natural disasters, but
Independence Day: Resurgence, 2012, San Andreas, among others, proved
that it's not a very good idea. But as long as the majority likes it,
who am I to judge? 

OK, let's begin. Gerard Butler plays a man who saves our planet from
natural problems, storms, cold winters, with the help of a space
station, zZzZzZZzzZZz.

Geostorm is so full of CGI, that at one point you start to get
headaches and you'll never understand what's behind the desire of
destroying the planet. It has something to do with the White House, I
didn't catch the idea because I felt asleep for a short period of time. 

If you want a film full of disasters that are also eye-candy, Geostorm
is not the best idea. The movie is the same as other disaster flicks,
nothing new. I believe the writer wrote the script in 2-3 days. 

If you want something mindless, with a total waste of talent, full of
clichés and loud sounds, Geostorm is the perfect choice.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood is officially DEAD!They have run out of ideas and keep
recycling the same trash over and over all the while shoving their far-
left liberal politics down the throats of a fed-up public whose
beginning to wake up.This sorry piece of CGI crap with a terrible
script and actors who seemed like they phoned their performances in is
what Hollywood calls entertainment to the masses nowadays.Don't waste
your money or time on this turkey.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Geostorm because it was the only movie playing on a night
where I really wanted to go to the 4D-cinema. Since it was a disaster
movie I figured it would go well with the big screen and the
4D-effects.

Right from start I felt that something was off. The dialogue and over
all atmosphere felt tacky and the acting didn't seem genuine. This was
only the beginning though.

Geostorm is filled with canned dialogue and clichés that will make you
cringe. Most of the actors under perform and there's no real chemistry
between the main actors.

During the whole movie you feel like you're watching a movie that
you've already seen and the tropes used are so in-your-face that you
almost feel provoked.

I was thinking about leaving several times during the movie but since I
was with friends I decided to stay. During the climax of the movie
several people in the audience were loudly mocking the movie and
laughing at the absurdity of it all.

Everything about Geostorm was a disaster. It was very predictable and
preachy and the director actually made you feel dumb throughout most of
the movie. The only OK thing was the CGI but even that felt re-used and
tired.

Nobody should watch this movie. It's utterly bad and should be avoided
at any cost. I don't even want to think about how much money was spent
on this garbage
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to see this movie after I saw trailer for
it. Oh, how I was wrong. I can't remember when have I seen such a bad
movie in every aspect of it. Stupid dialogues, bad acting, really
shallow plot... And of course, how can we bypass politics from real
life... In movie, several countries participate in making the
technology for saving Earth, but no Russians, they are bad, they don't
want to save planet where they live... Really... Puke... At least I've
collected a lots of points on my Cinema bonus card, so I watched it for
free...
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood studio boss: "Okay, folks, I want you to use everything
that's been going through the global press for the last two years:
Occupational disasters, storms, climate change. Just mix it together
like a salad. And because my son has just turned twelve, I want this
film to be dedicated only to twelve-year-old males. Okay, my son is not
the brightest and he loves explosions and space ships - preferably
exploding space ships - so make something he'll like for sure. Blow
something up and stuff like that." 

Submissive employee:"But shouldn't we also involve women?" Hollywood
studio boss: "Sure. The standard clichés will do fine: a little girl
who is interested in electronics and science, although we all know that
girls at this age are just sitting in front of Youtube, watching
make-up videos. But hey, that's what people want to see. And something
about a female special agent kicking balls. That came out pretty well
in the' 80s, I'm sure it still works." 

Submissive servant:"Don't you think that we are mentally undercharging
the audience and pretending that they're all mentally under-exposed?"

Hollywood studio boss: "Hell, they ARE. Oh - and because the whole
world laughs at our President, I want the President of the United
States to play a role that is better off than this living joke in the
Oval Office. I want my son to believe that the President of the United
States is smarter than Goofy. At least."
<|_=00=_|>
What a mess...

"Geostorm" is nothing more than a stupid plot combined with a
ridiculous name (dutch boy), that artificial and Hollywodian
inclusiveness and diversity, precocious girls, sensitive dads, and a
Gerard Butler acting as if he was a real all-American politically
correct liberal wimp (forget Leonidas and "300"). 

This is nothing more than a pretty tedious film with limited action and
too much talk, it is unbearable to watch.

Geostorm aimed to be a an Asylum science fiction film,but i failed
miserably!
<|_=00=_|>
This was bad.... really bad! I am a big disaster movie fan and can sit
through most things, but wow this was really boring.. the characters
are shallow, predictable and the chemistry between them stilted and
forced.

The special effects were OK, but you just didn't get any sense of the
fear because there was no character that developed enough for you to
fear for them.

I think a better movie would have been Gerard Butler developing the
satellite system and saving the world from Global Warming in the first
place.. at least that may have been believable.

I watched Geo Disaster on Syfy the other day and at the time was
thinking that it would be a poor mans Geostorm.. but seriously it
turned out to be the better of the two films.. that should tell you
just how dreadful this film was. It only gets 2 because the special
effects were OK.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this film to be very sleep worthy, in fact I had to check the
plot afterwards as I kept dozing off. Very cheesy American human
interest story about the relationship between two brothers was its
central theme. The sci-fi was badly thought out and made Gerry Anderson
look like an expert. The highlight for me was when the baddie was
revealed to be a disciple of Trump. I left the cinema muttering 'we
should have invested more in renewable energy'.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, the critics went to town on this film didn't they.

Although this film wasn't close to perfect, it doesn't deserve such a
low score.

My main negative critique was that the writing/screenplay was a little
sloppy, although still very entertaining. 

But either than that, the performances were decent, the
cinematography/sfx well done and the directing was good.

An enjoyable film that I would see again maybe one more time, but
certainly not deserving of such a low score.
<|_=00=_|>
This is like a clip show for a movie trope website. UTTER NONSENSE. I
would like to wax lyrical about how bad but please just trust me that
This. Is. Terrible. Yes, there's left leaning politics which is a bit
obvious. But not as obvious as the glaring plot lines and the utterly
wacky made up science that an elementary school kid could pick massive
holes in. I honestly believe the writers have zero respect for people,
expecting them to buy into this rubbish. I will say it again. NONSENSE.
Please watch something else, anything really.
