
Beware people, this is an early review. Being a member of a media group
I caught an early screening at the Amc. I was not required to sign an
NDA.

Point Break is a bafflingly unsolicited remake of the 1991 cult classic
of the same name. It is directed by Ericson Core, a good filmmaker who
directed the 2006 Invincible, a film which is criminally underrated.
When I found out that Point Break was being remade I shuddered in fear,
but I when I learned that Core was directing the film, I immediately
changed my tune, as I hold Invincible in such high regard, as it truly
is an under appreciated film for the ages.

Point Break 2015 is grotesque. 

I am not inherently adverse to remakes and reboots, and I am not at all
a purist, I am perfectly fine with rebooting material and straying from
source material if it serves the story well. What had happened here is
that the studio has produced a garden variety action movie and slapped
a name on it purely for the sake of brand recognition.

The film exceeds expectations in the sense that this a slickly produced
action film with a completely rad soundtrack. The camera work, framing
and editing leave everything on the proverbial field. There isn't
anything new going on here, but it's produced in a professional manner
and the action scenes are handled with extreme care.

And along comes the story, instead of our group of guys pulling bank
jobs to fund adrenaline junkie lifestyles, the action men of 2015 are
self aware crusaders, too cool for school, hipsters on a self imposed
mission from God. Every character in this film is ball- kickingly
annoying. The problem is that not one of the main characters are in
possession of a redeemable quality and their motivations are completely
nonsensical, they are all essentially unknowingly pseudo intellectuals.

If this movie had been titles virtually anything else I may have given
it a 4 or 5 out of 10, rather than a three, though the unnecessarily
and intentionally sanitized PG13 vibe completely disrupts any potential
the film may have had in the first place.

It's not good, it stinks.

No sir, I don't like it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the first projection at Chiang Mai Thailand. This is one of
the most horrible movies i have ever seen. Please don't waste your
money. The story makes no sense. The characters are stiff like frozen
cucumbers, the purpose and motivations are completely ridiculous. This
is a disgrace of a movie. It is as if the director wanted to create the
horrible anti point break. Oh My God! Oh My Buddha! Wasted life! There
is no logic, the characters are half-dimensional, the star is beyond
ridiculous and annoying, the girl is on drugs, the pace is awful they
jump from scene to scene like monkeys jump from tree to tree. The
director clearly had no vision. I don't know what to say other than
STAY AWAY. STAY AWAY.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like those 3 or 5 minute GoPro or Red Bull videos of people
doing extreme sports then you will certainly like most of the movie as
a lot of it is exactly that - and to be sure, those moments were pretty
cool to watch and very well done. 

Unfortunately, in between all of those moments is a pretty boring plot
line with characters that you never really care about.

If you like mindless action (nothing wrong with that) then you will
probably like this movie - although most of the "action" is extreme
sports, not really guns.

Apparently I have to write at least ten lines of text, but honestly
there isn't much more to say about the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
A Gen Z update to Kathryn Bigelow's 1991 cult classic, this remake is
essentially an episode of Fast and Furious in which the vehicular
exploits have been replaced with an assortment of extreme sports
sequences. Constructed with an alarming amount of real footage and
physical stunt work, the numerous action set pieces are rather
impressive; a high octane wing-suit gliding scene and the
tension-building rock climbing finale topping the list. Yet the impact
of these daredevil stunts is wasted on a film that fails on almost
every other level. Stemming from Kurt Wimmer's truly awful screenplay,
every second not spent traversing a mountainside, soaring through the
air or surfing a mammoth wave is cringe worthy and/or yawn inducing.
Wimmer's dialogue attempts to be philosophical and Zen-like, but with
clichéd stinkers like "the only law is gravity" and "everyone dies,
it's just a matter of how", it's nothing short of unintentionally
hilarious. Replacing the eternally cool Patrick Swayze was always going
to be tough, however Edgar Ramirez does a solid job as charismatic
eco-warrior Bohdi. The same can't be said for
low-budget-Chris-Hemsworth hunk Luke Bracey though, who is so wooden as
Johnny Utah he makes Keanu Reeves look like Daniel Day Lewis. This
modern update boasts a handful of genuinely fantastic action sequences,
yet they're not enough to warrant a recommendation in what is otherwise
a limp and incoherent thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine the intense stunts from energy drink commercial or Youtube
extreme sport montage while music from Mad Max blares on background.
This is where the second coming of Point Break truly excels. When it
hits just the right velocity, it's bloody breathtaking. Unfortunately,
the narrative is not only poor, it nearly sabotages the movie like a
broken parachute.

Story revolves around Utah (Luke Bracey), an FBI trainee as he
investigates a series of heists and their connection to a group of
athletes led by Bodhi (Édgar Ramírez). As one might expect, it follows
the same trail that Keanu Reeves and Patrick Swayze has placed. The new
leads do what they can, although it's better to watch this without
comparing, because it certainly doesn't have the same caliber of star
or chemistry.

The plot then dives head first into uncharted territory. It's littered
with so much "save the planet" preachy acts as the writing struggles to
place FBI agent in the hippie nirvana angle. The motivation is just a
mess of random vague one-liners, even the on-screen characters are
perplexed by it. There's a romance subplot, but this is mainly to show
the attractive Teresa Palmer as eye candy for several short scenes.

The movie is actually better when they just show the crazy sequences
instead of forcing its lackluster story. It has plethora of impressive
feats, from high heaven wingsuit flying, the climb on hazardous urban
streets and natural cliffs, to the surfing of gigantic waves. This is
the level of stunt choreography xXx and Fast and Furious wish they had.

When camera pans into the right angle and lighting, as the sounds is
muffled by throbbing tune of the fast music, Point Break reaches the
zenith. It's miles beyond what typical action flick could offer, but
sadly it's repeatedly interrupted by the shoddy story, which feels like
an excuse to fly across the globe to do random cool tricks.

If viewed only on the grand mix of cinematography and choreography,
Point Break is exquisite, this would have been a great documentary of
extreme sport. However, as action movie, the story is so pretentious,
it simply serves as speed bump to hamper the thrill.
<|_=00=_|>
I sincerely hope the original Point Break is much different than this
lifeless, hippy-dippy, overblown Mountain Dew commercial. I've never
seen the original movie, so I have no bias towards it. Based on the
movie's own merit's, the Point Break remake is laughably awful. In
Point Break, a rookie FBI agent tracks down a group of extreme athletes
who go around the world carrying out crimes in unusual and
life-threatening ways; they plan to do a series of near- impossible
stunts called the Ozaki 8 in hopes of reaching spiritual enlightenment.
At least, that was the plot for about ten minutes before the movie
devolves into a series of party scenes and surprisingly dull extreme
sports clips that could have been easily viewed on YouTube, all set to
irritating club music. It takes a special director to make BASE jumping
and cliff diving this boring. Ericson Core builds as little suspense as
possible in his action set pieces and instead films admittedly
well-shot highlights reels for the action scenes. Any sort of suspense
conjured up is because of the great cinematography because the
characters are so flat and annoying that you almost wish they would get
killed off. Everyone in this movie acts stoned out of their mind. All
they do is spit faux- philosophical nonsense which gets tiring after
the first twenty minutes. It gets laughable towards the end of the
movie with lines like "Ideas are strong. But not as strong as a whaling
ship," and no amount of context will make that line any less
ridiculous. The unbearable dialog, muddled plot and dull characters
makes this Point Break remake utterly pointless. If you're not a fan of
remakes, this will make you reach your breaking point.
<|_=00=_|>
I was enthusiastically exuberant about returning to what I've known as
a cult classic, the original "Point Break". This reboot, is full of
slick stunts and visuals, but the story, or lack thereof, makes this
taste like pablum. I very seriously doubt that after two hours from
getting out of the theater watching this, that anybody would even
remember the name's of the central characters in this film. Why,
because the film maker neglected to give us a story where the
characters are expounded and fleshed out beyond the 3 minutes for any
resolute back-story on any of them. I appreciate the stunts and stunt
people for their quality work involved, but stunts don't make a movie.
A good story, with quality characters that are inter-meshed with
emotions and plots that pull the viewer into the characters' world is
what makes a memorable film. I'll stick with the original "Point
Break".
<|_=00=_|>
The original Point Break was mostly known for its memorable bromance
between Utah and Bodhi and some of its greatest action scenes ever put
to film. Either way, this remake doesn't bring enough justice to the
cult classic. Its new approach, instead of a simple undercover cop
thriller, is now a globe-trotting adventure featuring daredevils who
are pulling off a grand stunt show. Though the stunts are impressive at
times, it still pales in comparison with the original. The characters
are bland, the plot makes no sense and every moment it tries to
replicate with the original is just painfully forced for the sake of
what they believe it's called "fan service." Therefore, there isn't
much reason for Point Break (2015) to exist.

So Point Break is now about the stunts, but just like most action
movies today, it also had to strip away personality. So whenever we see
the cops, and even the daredevils, interact, it's just not so
entertaining. One of the charms of the original, while it had some
great action sequences, even the characters are interesting to watch.
Even if it's trifle, it's still worth spending your time. Now, it
somehow becomes uninteresting filler, especially the love interest.
Remember when Utah had to lie about his backstory to earn her trust?
Well, now they just easily hook up and nothing else, until some twist
happens or something like that. Utah and Bodhi aren't as engaging,
either. They're mostly spewing exposition, while Bodhi is basically
acting like a parody of someone from a New Age religion. Their
intention of becoming Robin Hoods is kind of vague as well, but I guess
no one thinks it actually matters.

What's really worth groaning is when it's really trying to replicate
the original; not by heart or personality, but by scene. They did the
Ex- Presidents, even though one of them is wearing an Obama mask
despite of taking place in 2015, but they only did it once, probably
because there isn't much room for this fan service. Also the iconic
scene involving Utah shooting up the air, which apparently Hot Fuzz did
it better. And the epilogue is horrendously shoehorned, like it's
nothing more than a tip off the hat, because... it's not Point Break
without it, I guess?

However, there are some things to at least like in this film. The
action is kind of stunning; the fact that they're visually more
realistic to look at than most CG-fest that blockbusters tend to feed
us (except for the epilogue which is too obvious.) Maybe the best among
them is the rock climbing sequence where it goes from wide shots to
dirty hand shots of seeing how much they'd grip. Luke Bracey isn't
quite bad as an action hero, but he seriously needs a better material
than this. Edgar Ramirez is probably just stuck with a blandly written
Bodhi and really stays stick-in-the-mud with whatever he says about
nature. Ray Winstone, though a good actor, is just not the memorably
delightful Papas that Gary Busey established. And the movie wouldn't be
any different if Teresa Palmer's role was written off.

And Point Break (2015) is just another needless remake. There are ideas
that could have been utilized more, but it's too burdened by both
action movie clichés and the fact that it is being Point Break. It's
not a good undercover cop thriller, nor a good bromantic film. And you
better off watching an actual stunt show, which at least doesn't make
you get through to its drab expositions and the fact that it's more
real and not embellished by any special effects. Then again, the
effects aren't bad, but that's not the point. You may give it credit
for heightening something from the original, but it doesn't do that
well either. The fact how unnatural the homages are made for this
remake makes it even more frustrating to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really is unbelievably terrible. It's basically a bunch of
extreme sport stunt shots glued together with nonsensical storyline,
bad acting and awful script.

It's one of those movies that's so bad they can't even keep basic
details straight, such as they drive off a boat at night time for a
swim, but it's clearly daytime once they get underwater.

There are some scenes that have literally no bearing on the story at
all...such as the scene at the pier when the FBI UK guy is randomly
pulling a boat out of the water.

The time-line of just about every event makes no sense at all.

The characters have nothing at all about them; they all seems to merge
into one hipster bearded blob on the screen and the only way i managed
to tell them apart was from their color coded outfits.
<|_=00=_|>
Point Break marks another blockbuster fizzer from Warner Bros., who
after several flops is now in desperate need of a major hit. This is a
useless, money-grabbing exercise that rides the name of an already
overrated cult film as an excuse to stage pointless stunts. I'll say
this once: do not waste your money on this film. If you are a fan of
the original Point Break by Kathryn Bigelow, the film where Patrick
Swayze played a bank robbing surfer who took Keanu 'I am an FBI agent'
Reeves under his wing, watch that film again. If you are in the mood
for crazy stunts and set pieces, open YouTube and watch some extreme
sports videos on there. These are comparatively sound alternatives to
this dreck, courtesy of director Ericson Core who has made his first
film since 2006. It might take another nine years and extensive therapy
to overcome this stain. The film is so bad and amateurishly composed
that it appears someone first listed off a series of extreme stunts and
told Core and screenwriter Kurt Wimmer (Salt) to write the movie around
them no matter how jarring or ill-fitting they may seem. If you're
still wondering, the stunts don't work on their own because the
script's lousiness makes them boring since there's no investment in the
one- dimensional characters and the weak performances of the actors.

No thought went into planning this narrative. It starts with two
motocross riders jumping between rock faces. One of them is Utah
(Australian actor Luke Bracey), who watches as his friend falls to his
death. The film forwards seven years to when Utah has joined the FBI
and is under the watch of Instructor Hall (Delroy Lindo), who doubts
Utah's commitment and calls him son a lot. Since Utah was once a
motocross rider in the extreme sports circle, he magically has the
background information about the activity of the dangerous gang of
extreme sports criminals Hall is chasing. It's mega stupid and as
contrived as the stunts themselves. The gang, best described as a
hodgepodge of philosophers, hippies, extremists and Mountain Dew sports
stars, is performing a ritual called the Osaki 8. The Osaki 8 involves
eight different extreme sports trials, some of which are criminal
activities but others are plain stunts including surfing and mountain
climbing. The transition between these set pieces is embarrassing. When
Utah bombs out in an early surfing attempt, the gang saves him from
drowning by bringing him onto their boat. He's recognised as a famous
motocross rider from all those years ago but everyone, at least at this
point, is oblivious that this not-exactly-inconspicuous surfer dude has
been training as a cop and is allowed to freely explore the boat of the
gang leader Bodhi (Joy's Édgar Ramírez). The other members of the gang,
including Teresa Palmer as a brief love interest, barely register at
all so you won't give two hoots about them and they aren't even smart
enough to background check Utah before initiating him. More criminal
than the stunts is how Ray Winston as Utah's partner Pappas, a
potentially good replacement for Gary Busey's comic relief character,
is inconsequential through much of the film except when questioning if
Utah is overly enjoying the gang life. But since we don't care about
the other gang members, what's the point in blurring the two lines of
the law?

Does every blockbuster have to be self-serious now because it worked so
well in the Nolan Batman films? Whereas Bigelow's film meshed action
and comedy, this remake doesn't have a funny side at all. Instead,
Bodhi's long, boring monologues about giving back to the earth (what?)
are serious delusions this film has about becoming meaningful. But even
watching the film solely for the stunts is futile. The film's marketing
has emphasised how the stunts are performed by actual stuntmen as
opposed to employing special effects. But given the stunts often have
nothing to do with the gang's criminal activities, like the surfing,
gliding and snowboarding sequences, we're watching a stunt showcase
that's completely aloof from the plot. Similarly, the apparent realism
of the stunts is malarkey since some are about as plausible as a Looney
Tune's cartoon. Driving down mountain slopes ahead of an avalanche,
through a dense forest on bikes and climbing mountains with just his
bare hands will make you think that the FBI has really intensified its
training or Utah has spent a lot of time with the Avengers. The only
good things about the film are its brief reference to the bank robber
masks of the original and that this boring pile falls under the two
hour mark. It's a small victory for anyone who is foolish enough to pay
money to see it. I lied and will reiterate: don't pay money to see this
because you're only encouraging movies like this with boring action and
such carelessness towards the story. It's a black eye to the fans of
the original who might have given this disaster a chance.
