
Oh My God this movie was bad So horrible it hurt to sit through the
first 20 minutes to get to the point. I felt I could review it due
without ever bothering to digest the whole piece.

Despite the high profile comedic talent on hand, (Jason Bateman and
Melissa McCarthy), the movie is so predictable that you can guess
almost every nuance in it. If you wish to have your intelligence
insulted for an hour and a half, this is for you. 

The idiotic pranks the script calls for in the first half hour are so
predictable, you laugh at the characters as they attempt to convince
you they're going through the actual experience of identity theft. The
lame attempt to profile a law enforcement agent's disdain for having to
pursue an identity thief is akin to what the audience feels in their
effort to connect with the characters. McCarty's character is so
predictable we've seen it 100 times in Hollywood. Good person feels
unloved, steals someone else's material goods to feel appreciated,
throws party, is told no one cares and voila they want to do right. 

Hello, thanks for your complete lack of originality.

When you have comedic talent, you don't have to give them an 9th
grader's high school play script to read. Give them some real material.
McCarthy's character is so predictable you already hate her before
you're invested into why she actually bother to steal Bateman's
character's identity. By the time the movie reveals that McCarthy is a
self-loathing, conceited, self deprecating individual who wants out of
her predictable Drug/gang related troubles, you have no empathy for her
character what-so-ever. In fact, you've already begun to detest her
role as a leach. 

Bateman is the only character worth investing in and perhaps that's
because we still identify with him as one of the principles in Hancock,
nearly the same character.

If I'm spending $8 to see a film it sure as heck isn't this one. 

Give us a real script and less predictable jokes, less predictable
outcomes and less predictable plot lines. Yes, the actors were funny,
but everything else about this film suc&ed.

Save your $ go see something else.
<|_=00=_|>
I have sympathy for Jason Bateman's Sandy Bigelow-Patterson for reasons
other than he was victim to identity fraud. Being a male and having the
name "Sandy" sets up a variety of jokes from socially childish people
who have never seen a male with the unisex name of "Sandy." Had it not
been for my sweet mother, I would've been "Michel Pulaski," rather than
"Steven" because of my father's obsession with Canada and their hockey
players and Quebec Nordiques-player Michel Goulet.

Other than that, that's about all the sympathy I have for the
characters in Seth Gordon's Identity Thief. Overlong, underwritten, and
tritely crafted, this is a perfect example of a comedy in the genre I
call "maximum antics, minimum laughter." To qualify for the placement,
you must subject a somewhat interesting premise to more grating
physical schtick than the intelligently crafted kind, which centers
around characters, wit, heart, substance, and wordplay.

As established, Bateman plays Sandy Bigelow-Patterson, a mild-mannered
everyman, functioning aimlessly in the corporate world that leaves him
stuck in the center of the ladder. He struggles not only with
responsibility and a constant neglect in a pay raise, but with his wife
(Amanda Peet) and two children, whose demands will soon become greater.
The last thing Sandy needs is Diana (Melissa McCarthy), a portly,
frantic, remorseless woman who targets Sandy as the latest victim in
her ongoing credit card fraud scheme by obtaining his information via
prank call, making him believe his credit card account is in jeopardy.
It is when him and a number of his coworkers ditch their dead-end jobs
and begin working at a company created by one of the ex-employees (John
Cho) does Sandy feel his life is on the up-and-up.

Sandy is soon arrested for failing to appear at a court hearing for
Diana, and this is when he discovers he is a victim of an identity
theft. Because the law enforcement of Denver has a cockamamie list of
rules they adhere to, not arresting or even researching Diana's records
since she lives in Winter Park, Florida, Sandy decides to take matters
into his own hands by going down to Florida to nab Diana and get her to
confess to law enforcement and to his boss to remain secure in his life
again. He assumes that because of Diana's pudgy nature, she'll be an
easy catch, until he finds that she's a violent, dangerous menace that
is almost frighteningly haunted and mentally off balance. Not only
that, but both are being pursued by a witless debt collector and two
other assassins that want both dead for the crimes they've committed or
allegedly committed.

What ensues is a predictable, uneven road comedy between the two, with
two actors swimming in potential, but wasting it in a comedy of tired
errors. Jason Bateman can play straight characters in obscure worlds in
a beautiful way (see Extract for reference), and Melissa McCarthy
showed that being gross can be funny in Judd Apatow's Bridesmaids. Both
of their schticks begin to show signs of wear as Identity Thief
haplessly approaches the hour mark and many laugh-inducing situations
have been proposed but none of them fully exercising them.

Gordon's previous film was Four Christmases, a film that wasn't as
mawkish and oversentimentalized as it could've been. While it still
accentuated a rather negative relation to the holiday of Christmas and
was part of the genre I just spoke of, it still kept its premise
concise and did not overcompensate its material to a ghastly overlong
length. Identity Thief does the opposite. Its unnecessary sequences
involving overweight people having intercourse and public humiliation
are got from the drearily immature cloth I'm growing ever-so fond of
laying in when I watch comedies.

Yet the film really drops the ball when it attempts to make Diana a
character we're supposed to feel bad for after all her menace, violent
nature, unjustifiable cruelty, and not to mention, her willingness to
commit crimes of sheer carelessness. She is so loathsome that it isn't
that her dramatic instances where her character receives humanization
fall flat, but it's that she's proved herself to be such a smug,
arrogant, astronomically mean-spirited character that it's like trying
to accept a friend back after he's taken advantage of you numerous
times. You feel cheated, used, and now, foolish to consider accepting
them back into your life.

Identity Thief unfortunately subjects its leads into joyless, gimmicky
physical schtick, frequent car chases, and sorely unfunny scenes that
evoke the least common denominator of juvenile humor. It may not be as
unabashedly quirky as some other comedic efforts I've seen this year,
but regarding the cast, the material, and the ability of the director
to create a comfortable, unobtrusive atmosphere, this endeavor
should've much, much funnier.

Starring: Jason Bateman, Melissa McCarthy, Amanda Peet, and John Cho.
Directed by: Seth Gordon.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the single worst movie I have seen since Mirrors. A horrible,
laugh-less movie with no redeeming qualities. Not even Jason Bateman's
usual charm or the cameos by Jon Favreau and Robert Patrick could save
this van-wreck of a movie. 

Melissa McCarthy's "Diana" was the single most unlikeable character in
recent years. Unrelatable, unfunny, unworthy of an hour and a half of
screen time. Suspending your disbelief is one thing, but "Identity
Thief" requires something a little closer to a lobotomy. With an ending
you couldn't miss if you were Helen Keller, there is nothing worth
sticking around for. In fact, Helen Keller could've made a better slap-
stick comedy than Seth Gordon.

It pains me to see Jason Bateman's name attached to such a horrible
movie and I truly hope his next project fairs MUCH better. The worst
thing is, "Identity Thief" has already made more money than much better
films out there.

One hour and forty seven minutes of my life I will never get back.

I do not recommend this movie to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Seth Gordon's previous feature, "Horrible Bosses" (2012),
wasn't anything special as a comedy despite its potential, but it
contained a few clever moments to make it worthwhile. "Identity Thief"
makes a fatal mistake when Gordon attempts to incorporate a dramatic
element to the story line. By going in this direction, it is no longer
possible to view "Identity Thief" as a compilation of marginal fat
jokes, sex gags, and slapstick humor. Instead, we are forced to absorb
a "serious" aspect that is so poorly rendered it's unbearable to watch.
There are bad movies, and then there's "Identity Thief."

"Identity Thief" starts out as a comedy about a nice, clean-cut guy
named Sandy Patterson (Jason Bateman), who travels from the Colorado
home he shares with his wife, Trish (Amanda Peet), and two daughters,
to Florida. His goal: track down the woman who stole his identity,
trashed his credit rating, and cost him his job. She's Diana (Melissa
McCarthy), a fat, foul-mouthed dipstick who is freely spending as she
adds to Sandy's debt. What transpires is a series of completely
implausible situations that transforms "Identity Thief" into a
mismatched buddy film. And that's when the wheel's come off completely.
The film suffers from the classic complaint that the funniest moments
were in the trailer, and even then it's nothing special. A strong
contender for the Razzies, and for those unfamiliar, they acknowledge
and award the worst movie of the year. Proceed with caution.you've
been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Critics i.e. Rex Reed, must really have it out for Melissa McCarthy
because the hateful reviews on this movie and her personally are not
warranted.

If you like slapstick, raunchy, adult comedies then you will like
Identity Thief. McCarthy shines in this movie, her physical comedy
talent is right on the mark and she really gives her character a heart
and soul. Bateman does well as the straight man caught up in McCarthy's
crazy world of con games and identity theft.

This is pure escapism entertainment, you have to suspend your disbelief
and just go for the ride. This is not Argo or Lincoln and it's not
supposed to be. We saw this 3/9/13 at the Muvico and the theater was
packed! Everyone seemed to enjoy the movie and the four of us thought
it was hysterical. There are some really good one liners and physical
comedy situations here. The box office success of this movie goes to
show you that critics don't know bs about what people find funny. I
can't wait to see Melissa in her new movie with Sandra Bullock.
<|_=00=_|>
It is deliciously ironic that a movie called Identity Thief has a very
tough time building an identity for itself to display to the audience.
This movie is a total jumble and lacks enough structure to even attempt
to become a decent movie. What saves this movie from being a total
disaster are the lead actors which had been on a roll up to this point.
For those expecting a deliciously dark follow-up to Horrible Bosses
from that same director instead will walk away quite disenchanted and
disappointed.

In a nutshell, stressed father and husband Sandy Patterson has his
identity stolen resulting in him building up debt that's being
accumulated by another person. Desperately in order to save his job and
get his life back, he travels down to Florida to find the thief and
convince her to return back to Colorado to get things straightened out.
This plot is rather ridiculous, which is why it required a screwball or
dark comedic taint to remove the absurdity of it all. Unfortunately,
despite the trailers and television spots this barely is a dark comedy,
and barely works as a comedy to be exact.

Identity Thief is sometimes funny, but never funny enough. It is
sometimes dark and twisted, but never truly dark and twisted enough.
It's even sometimes emotional and sentimental (very inconsistently I
might add), but even that ship sails too soon far too often. Lastly it
is sometimes interesting and suspenseful, but, well, you get the point.
The intriguing and potentially hilarious premise of a disgruntled
victim meeting his money-sucking predator was started by a Floridian
teacher, but gets ruined by a bloated and underdeveloped script by
Craig Mazin----whom doesn't really have a good repertoire. The
mismatched directing of Seth Gordon didn't help either.

It is ultimately the cast that keeps it afloat, even when the script
bogs them down. Jason Bateman and Melissa McCarthy work well together
and did a great job despite the circumstances, particularly McCarthy.
Then check out the rest of this underused staff: Eric Stonestreet,
Robert Patrick, Amanda Peet, Genesis Rodriguez, Morris Chestnut, and
John Cho. Plenty of good actors and each with the ability to breathe
life into the project, but unfortunately just didn't have enough screen
time to make an impact.

Bottom Line: Resembling a weak, watered-down useless version of Planes,
Trains, and Automobiles instead of the likes of Horrible Bosses and the
best of Danny DeVito, Identity Thief struggles to find the right focus
and right footing and winds up becoming a movie that isn't funny
enough, isn't dramatic enough, isn't wild enough, isn't likable enough,
and generally isn't good enough to warrant a second viewing---or a
first one. It's one thing to disappoint, but it's a totally different
matter when you disappoint underneath so much potential and so much
talent at the helm.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the Houston premier of Identity Thief with modest
expectations. The movie is more-so about the road trip of the straight
and Honest Sandy alongside the Cunning, throat punching Diana. The
premise is a recycled one, but is done in a fresh way. While watching,
you don't get the "I've seen this before" feeling while watching it.
There are plenty of laughs delivered by the hilarious two leading
characters. The supporting characters actually are the only
disappointments. They seem quite dry with their dialog being rushed and
less integral to the humor of the movie. They are more side notes to
keep the story rolling, but they do not slow the movie down. 

The movie is a good time out and not a waste of money if you paid for
tickets. It doesn't break the mold, but it does stand up as a movie you
will enjoy and actually leave out of the theater talking about!
<|_=00=_|>
Sandy Patterson (Jason Bateman) discovers that his identity has been
stolen by Diana (Melissa McCarthy) and goes to where she is in Florida
to bring her to justice and get his life back. 

The promos did me in again. They were funny and the only things that
were funny in this "comedy." When I saw the name Melissa McCarthy I was
dreading her spewing off foul and raunchy language for 3-minutes
without breathing. She has that shtick judging from earlier movies I
have seen of her, but, surprisingly that never happened, thank
goodness. 

Diana is basically the main character and Sandy just goes along for the
ride trying to get his life back. Diana does the silly, stupid, but
mandatory things a Hollywood comedy must have and we in the audience
cringe a lot. So much for comedy. This could have been good and funny,
but those silly, stupid and mandatory things trump everything else that
could have been used no matter how good they may have been. So much for
any creativity. We get the same things over and over again and timing
be damned. After a while it all becomes tedious, bland, and why are we
watching?

To be fair Jason Bateman does have good timing and some of his actions
inject some humor into this. I wish someone would come up with a script
that hi-lites Bateman's talent and not just treat him like a 5th wheel.
(Hey, maybe it's him picking these weak, not funny scripts.) Hmmm
(3/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: Yes, simulated in a motel room. Nudity: No. Adult
sexual Language: Yes. Language, other: Yes, not much surprisingly
<|_=00=_|>
I saw through almost an hour of this movie before I couldn't justify
wasting my time anymore. I don't think I've laughed once.

From the very beginning, the character Julia is constantly and
unceasingly aggravating without redeeming or even laughable qualities.
On the other hand, the character Sandy, though understandably a
mild-mannered businessman unused to situations like the one he finds
himself in, reacts to these situations in a way that makes me believe
his core function is to drag the story on for as long as humanly
possible. His interactions are frustratingly illogical, do not
contribute to building either his or Julia's characters, and above all,
ARE NOT FUNNY.

If you're looking for a fun movie, you'd be better off watching Le Mis.
I haven't watched a movie this teeth-grindingly bad since No Strings
Attached.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointed would be the first word that comes to mind. With such a
colorful cast, you would expect a "laugh out loud" comedy but I found
that aside from a few scenes, that was not the case. Melissa McCarthy
was a riot in the movie Bridesmaids and her weekly TV show Mike an
Molly so naturally you would assume a movie where she plays the leading
role would be hilarious but the film definitely left something to be
desired. I would say to save your money and to wait until the DVD
release.

5.5 out of 10

See my other reviews at: http://maxsmoviestub.wordpress.com/
