
This movie is a dramatization, based on stuff that really happened, and
it is a really cool movie.

No, this movie isn't meant to show history exactly as it happened. If
you want to know all that read the book by Walter Isaacson. It's a
great book.

The script is pure Sorkin-Porn. Rapid-fire dialogue with 2
conversations going on at the same time. If you liked The West Wing or
any of Aaron Sorkin's other movies, you'll feel at home with this one.

They also get the small emotional moments right as well. Some of the
best moments are between Steve and his daughter.

The directing and editing is masterful. I liked the choice to shoot on
different formats for the different years and the flashback scenes
punctuate the drama on screen perfectly. 

All the actors do a fine job, especially Michael Stuhlbarg who plays
Andy Hertzfeld.

I hope when they release this movie on blu ray they include the video
of the real Steve doing these product launches as bonus features.

If you can get past the fact that this movie isn't a word for word
recreation of history, you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Jobs is written by Aaron Sorkin and directed by Danny Boyle. It
stars Micheal Fassbender, Kate Winslet, Seth Rogen, Jeff Daniels, and
Michael Stuhlbarg.

Set backstage at three iconic product launches and ending in 1998 with
the unveiling of the iMac, Steve Jobs takes us behind the scenes of the
digital revolution to paint a portrait of the man, his estranged family
and staff at its epicenter.

I honestly can't start this review without saying this easily ties with
my favorite movie of the year, The Gift, for quite a few reasons. Truth
be told this movie has everything needed to build a classic and uses it
remarkably.

Writer Aaron Sorkin has quite a few gems in his filmography which
include Money Ball, Social Network and A Few Good Men. He is as
versatile as he is brutal in honesty. He works wonders in this movie
revealing the man behind the machine rather than the machine behind the
man. Without any scenes of failure or success, Sorkin forces his
audience to understand the complex and often times revolting central
Character. With extremely well written confrontations between Jobs and
Wozniak or Jobs and his Daughter or even Jobs and his Boss, Sorkin
relentlessly demonstrates the true nature behind the tech giant. Though
this movie's central family tension and the Job vs. Apple drama are
enthralling, Sorkin injects just enough dry and black comedy to keep
the movie from becoming an influential figure's shaming. With that
being said Sorkin also understands that the enormous ego of Steve Jobs
had to be exposed as a vice and plays on that brutal fact perfectly.
With 4 dimensional characters, great central dramas and pitch perfect
comedy, this might actually be his best work yet.

Accompanying the stellar writing was Danny Boyle's beautiful direction.
Through seemingly unending shots and aggressive movements the audience
genuinely feels like their in Job's presence which can be very hard to
sit through at times but is ultimately rewarding experience. With
visible passion from Boyle, this is one powerful ride.

To my common readers I mentioned a few weeks back that Black Mass had
the greatest ensemble cast of the year, I was wrong. This movies cast
never really stops acting to the point of absolute realism. To start
Kate Winslet portrayal of real life Johanna Hoffman was as beautiful as
it was naive. She brought the character alive in full force and truly
demonstrated she is one of the best actresses working. I smell a
nomination coming her way. I had referenced Jeff Daniel's acting last
week in The Martian, well he completely out did himself. He was tender
at times and shark-like in others. He drew the line between
intelligence and decency and walks this tight rope carefully. Five year
old Mekenzie Moss also offers an absolutely astounding performance,
uttering few but heart wrenching words. Michael Stuhlbarg works wonder
as well on a albeit smaller degree. 

Now onto the two heavy hitters. A surprise to me and my theater alike,
Seth Rogan gives the single best dramatic performance of his career. As
Steve Wozniak, the literal opposite of Jobs, Rogan played the role with
elegance and brilliance and I wouldn't even mind the Benicio snub if
Rogen won the statue. The role demanded a sweet, naive, caring and
ultimately explosive performance and Rogan more than delivered making
the scenes of abrasion between him and Fassbender iconic. 

I have been holding off that name for the entire review because Micheal
Fassbender is the only thing keeping this movie from failing. He dawns
the character in such a way, I can only compare it to Jake Gyllenhaal
from Night Crawler and even then I don't think I could fully describe
it. Filled to the brim with nuance Fassbender offers a cold,
intelligent, manipulative, calculating, and over all disturbingly
realistic portrayal of Steve Jobs. I really can't envision a better
cast lead than him. As calm as he is diabolical, Fassbender plays this
egotistical narcissist with such precision its close to horrifying to
watch. Though calm through most of the movie Fassbender understands
when to unleash the monster which lays in Jobs and is absolutely
volcanic while doing so. Under all the deception, tyranny, and
technological brilliance lays a purely adroit and masterful
performance. Though Johnny Depp in Black Mass was great and Ian
McClellan in Mr. Holmes was grand, neither of them embodied their
characters much like Micheal Fassbender and it would be a shame and a
disservice to cinema if he didn't with Best Actor. He has proved he is
one of the best actors of the generation.

Steve Jobs was a privilege to see on the big screen and is so far tied
with The Gift as my number one movie of the year. With Deft acting,
exquisite direction, and powerful writing this movie is not far from a
modern classic. Steve Jobs gets an A+.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, as your movie reviewer, if you are looking for a history of
Apple or even Jobs himself, this movie will disappoint you. The movie
is an existential dissection of a genius coupled with Danny Boyle's
deep ambivalence about the computer. The first scene is the essence of
the movie, my friends. We see Arthur C. Clarke, a votary of technology,
telling the reporter (a stand in for Boyle) how the computer will be in
everyone's house by 2001. In the middle of his worship, the reporter
points out how empty and antisocial a life it will be. Clarke takes
mild umbrage and tells him how it will liberate everyone
geographically. Now, you will understand why we labor upon Job's
divorced wife and denied daughter. This is the paradox of Boyle's Jobs:
he invents a machine that connects the world but he is so interiorized,
like all geniuses, that he cannot relate to other human beings. Notice
how he reverses himself with child support for Lisa when she uses his
'child', the Mac, to draw with MacPaint. Jobs then tells the mother he
will write a blank check. This is the key to the movie, the Mac is
Steve Job's existential offspring as much as Beethoven's symphonies
were his jealously guarded progeny. When Jobs speaks of the Mac you
will always hear paternal argot more appropriate for a father speaking
of his child.

The other key scene is where we learn about his orphan past where he
says,"I never understand people who surrender control, I never would."
This deep rejection is the engine that drives him relentlessly
forwards; it explains the bizarre anomalies: special tools, two ports,
the cube slightly off, no acknowledgment for the Apple 2 and his hatred
/ contempt for the consumers who are buying his child. My favorite
scene in the movie is where Lisa senses the deep anguish driving this
man forward, she wordlessly runs across the room and hugs him.
Fassbender does so well here, notice how all the rage and fury
evaporate from his face for just an instant. We see the only scene of
him at peace in the whole movie. This is what he seeks, the rejected
orphan pushing himself forward. Listen to his language,"I feel like
Julius Caesar surrounded by enemies." The iconic tearful decent in the
elevator, after the Apple board votes him out, also is Boyle's image of
Steve Job's personality. Yes, detractors, I have heard awful things
about the man's factories in Asia, how wretched the working conditions
were. I am just reviewing the movie, I defer to others who have better
knowledge of the actual Steve Job's life. 

What is the point? The point is Boyle shares many of our ambivalencies
about the computer being either 'social' or 'entirely a positive.' When
you walk into a room and everyone is glued to their devices you may see
what Boyle is driving at here. The man who connected the world runs
after a grown Lisa who just called his iMac a 'suzy bake oven,' and
stormed off. He clings to this one connection to humanity. This is the
motif, the rejected genius driven relentlessly forward, so interiorized
that people don't really exist for him. He only forms the bond with
Lisa when she uses his 'child' for drawing. I recommend the movie to
you as a look inside the mind of a genius. He is not idealized, his
cruelty and ruthlessness are on full display. Especially to Daniels, he
is as cold as ice. This is why my favorite scene works so well, when he
gets the love he was denied, we see the driven fury dissipate from his
angry face. The movie not only conveys the mind of a genius but also
Boyle's deep ambivalence about the computer that you saw in the opening
scene. This was the deep pathos of Boyle's Jobs, he connects the world
but he lives deep within his mind obsessed with his existential
offspring: The Mac. Like Beethoven, he treats everyone around him
simply ghastly. His ontological interiority is almost impenetrable,
only Lisa seems to break through his deep reveries. 

The movie, despite its flaws, is an excellent look into the ontology of
a genius: their psychological isolation from the rest of the human
race. I am typing this on an iMac, my voice heard by people around the
world thanks to Steve Jobs. Those of you who believe in an afterlife,
like me, can but hope that the man finally received the peace he never
found in this life. Fassbender gives the best performance of his I have
ever seen; I was also impressed with Winslet who has come a long way
from Titanic. A Good Movie. Q.E.D. Deus Vobiscum Steve. 

"There Is No Genius Without A Touch Of Madness." Seneca
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when back in 2013 the Jobs movie came out. Everything about
the film's trailer was "do not see". Still to this day the moment when
Kutcher says "we're making Apple cool again" makes me laugh. Right from
the start this film looked like they were going to do it right and I
was anxiously waiting for it. And even though Steve Jobs wasn't
everything I thought it would be it is still a quality drama.

Yet I can also see why it was not so commercially successful. It's
weird format of taking place before three computer unveilings and the
film essentially consisting of conversations with limited action
between them. It is by no means a biography of the man's entire life
but it does paint a portrait which, like any picture, only reveals some
aspects of the person.

The film has a great cast who give solid performances. Michael
Fassbender creates a character whose tyrannical and devilish behaviour
you want to keep watching while longing for a glimpse of the human
side.

Overall Steve Jobs is a very watchable and engaging film, provided you
are already into end of the year Oscar bait drama films.
<|_=00=_|>
According to technology reporters such as John Dvorak and Leo Laporte
(both "old school" ones, who personally lived many of the events
portrayed in this film), it seems that Steve Jobs is more fiction than
reality; fortunately, it's a perfectly acted, well written and solidly
directed fiction, all of which is conjugated with each other in order
to compensate its curious narrative decisions. But, does it really
offer us a "real" vision of the genuine Steve Jobs? Probably not; for
that, there are numerous books and documentaries. What screenwriter
Aaron Sorkin attempted was capturing the essence of the man and his
moment in time, examining his nature through the interaction with
friends, relatives and colleagues during three stressful moments. As I
said, "curious narrative decisions"... but with an interesting result.
The unusual structure designed by Sorkin requires an excessive
chronological manipulation, suggesting the fact that all the personal
and labor problems from Jobs exploited (or were solved) in the previous
minutes to his famous presentations... not only once, but three times.
Even Jobs himself mentions that (well, the idealized version
brilliantly played by Michael Fassbender), but that doesn't excuse the
forced narrative juggling of the screenplay. Fortunately, the whole
cast makes an exceptional work, transcending those tricks and bringing
fluid and absolutely credible performances. Besides, Steve Jobs
precisely captures the ideological separation and fraternal
compatibility between Jobs and Steve Wozniak, the adored patron saint
of hackers who knew what people wanted... but not what they needed.
That's where Jobs shined... imposing his taste and will on the
consumers, even though many years went by before the economic success
validated that arrogant attitude. In conclusion, I don't think Steve
Jobs works as an apocryphal History lesson about the digital revolution
we currently enjoy/suffer; however, I found it quite an interesting
biopic, not only due to the phenomenal performances and Danny Boyle's
elegant direction, but also because of its intentional rejection of the
biographical clichés which almost always feel superficial and
incomplete. Sometimes, the fragments of a portrait end up being more
interesting than the whole picture. Nevertheless, my indifference for
the Apple products remains.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all.. I've seen Jobs with Ashton Kutcher and it wasn't that
bad as everyone said and i personally think it was much more
interesting than this one.

Steve Jobs was entertaining.. yes, but it was difficult to follow the
plot. After watching the Movie i had no clue what Steve actually did, i
mean i know some things, but i've learned nothing about his life after
seeing this Movie. The only thing that this Movie brought to me was the
Fact that he sucked as a Father and as a Human. Do i know why he did
all this?...no.

In the End this Movie opened a lot of questions but none of them
getting answered and this is the reason why i think i didn't liked it
that much.

Yes the acting was great and all, but i hope it's not just me who
thinks that a Movie needs more than just good acting.. 

Would you like to see the invention of Apple and what Steve Jobs done
for it, watch the one with Ashton Kutcher...

If you like to see a Movie about Steve Jobs personal life without any
real answers to it, watch this Movie...
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Jobs has one of the worst movie titles in film history. Of all
the names for the marketing team to come up with, this was the weakest
one. If the Ashton Kutcher movie hadn't been released already, I am
betting the farm this would have been named Jobs. That being said, the
movie plays REALLY long- and until the ending, it's a talky bore.

Michael Fassbender plays the title role, and although he's a fine
actor- Christian Bale (the original choice), should have been cast.
Nonetheless Fassbender does what he can. We witness how the co-founder
of Apple is during three behind-the-scenes unveiling's for his product,
all before the 2000s. 

When watching the movie, I was reminded of The Iron Lady with Meryl
Streep as Margaret Thatcher. Both that film and this center around a
famous public figure, but the movies aren't really about them or told
as biopics. They are more personalized and experimental. Streep's movie
is really about how a woman deals with dementia and her love for her
husband. Fassbender's movie really is about how a man deals with
narcissism and his love for his daughter. Both films are uneven and
messy because the focus is too grounded in emotion, when the audience
is more interested in their overall lives and not just these niche
moments. Because of this, both movies are not that interesting to
watch- but are elevated by strong performances. Streep won an Oscar for
her role, and Fassbender will be nominated.

Kate Winslet, with an uneven accent, plays Steve Jobs' assistant who is
the only person who can really stand up to him (well, that's a lie-
since Seth Rogan and Jeff Daniels also have cat fights). I was a little
annoyed with Winslet's personality, and awful hairdo. She starts
getting on my nerves when she threatens to quit unless Steve can patch
things up with his daughter. Any professional knows not to mix business
with personal- and her job is to work for Apple, not be a therapist.
Winslet is okay in her scenes, but her character is unlikable. If I
were Steve Jobs, I would have fired her.

Then there's the business of Lisa- the daughter, and I guess the TRUE
emotional back-story for the movie's purpose. Forget that I'm worth
billions of dollars, I better run after my little girl and remind her
that I plan to invent the iPod for her songs and that I remembered some
dumb painting she made on the Macintosh when she was 5. The daughter is
also unnerving because Steve Jobs was paying child support, and didn't
love the Mother anymore. He owes nothing to his daughter if he doesn't
wish to donate- but he attempts to show he cares, and she eventually
folds in the parking lot (which looks just like the parking lot in the
Tom Cruise movie Vanilla Sky).

Steve Jobs is talky and overtly uncinematic, so I was restless when
viewing it. There is nothing happening but a lot of nerdy white people
talking really fast and using big words to impress folks. Oh, sound
like The Social Network all over again? Well, Aaron Sorkin wrote that
too. He's not a good screenwriter- he's an elitist who has a big
vocabulary. But he sucks at creating characters that are believable.
Fassbender and Daniels aside, this movie is one of 2015's biggest
disappointments. 

FINAL GRADE: D
<|_=00=_|>
Director David Boyle and screenwriter Aaron Sorkin made a film feature
about the late Apple Computers founder Steve Jobs.Michael Fassbender
stars on this film that was based on the Walter Isaacson's authorized
biography of the late Apple CEO.

The film takes us into three different acts of the life of Steve Jobs
just like a play.The first act was during the time when Jobs was part
of the Macintosh R and D group and was about to release a new computer
that will be known as Macintosh.The second act is during the time when
Jobs was now seen working at NeXT Computers after getting fired from
Apple and was about to release the new computer "Cube" in 1988.Finally
in the final act,we get to see Jobs back again at Apple Computer and he
is now working as the CEO.Once again,a new computer will be released
and it is known as "iMac".

No question that this is a talky film after it is being patterned in a
play.Expect the characters to talk constantly and less movements among
the characters.Added to that,expect the story to take place into the
words spoken by the actor rather than the actions that are happening in
the film.Viewers who are used to watching a movie might find it
boring.People who are not greatly familiar with Steve Jobs would find
themselves lost among the words of the actors and actresses involved.

But in spite of the movie being patterned in a play,expect to see great
performances from Michael Fassbender as Steve Jobs as well as his
co-star Kate Winslet.It also provides a lot of knowledge about Jobs
too.But for one who want to know more about Steve Jobs and finds this
theatrical play-patterned movie boring,watching Ashton Kutcher's movie
"Jobs" as well as the TV movie "The Pirates of the Silicon Valley"
could also be helpful.For documentaries,"The Man and the Machine" is
probably the best.
<|_=00=_|>
Reviewed by: Dare Devil Kid (DDK)

Rating: 3.5/5 stars

Though it'll undoubtedly have a more profound effect on those with a
deeper knowledge of Apple's history or who share a fervent relationship
with every product the company launches, "Steve Jobs" is nonetheless an
affecting piece of cinema that boldly chooses a stark portrayal of the
tech giant's late CEO without ever veering into the degradation or
canonization of its eponymous subject. Set backstage at three iconic
product launches and ending in 1998 with the unveiling of the iMac,
"Steve Jobs" takes us behind the scenes of Apple's digital revolution
to paint an intimate portrait of its cofounder.

Aaron Sorkin's screenplay and Danny Boyle's Direction offers a Steve
Jobs profile that doesn't idolize or criticize him, providing us
valuable insight to the man's life and other important individuals who
impacted it. But that insight feels incomplete and unrefined at various
points in the film, because Sorkin's (usually impeccable) writing keeps
treading into theatrical, garrulous, and, dare I say, even
self-indulgent territory to metamorphose into a truly involving
experience.

Michael Fassbender and Kate Winslet create all the drama, intensity,
conflict, and dynamism required to propel Aaron Sorkin's minimalist
screenplay into grander terrain, but the film is simultaneously
inspiring and frustrating, much like the individual it's based on. In
particular, Fassbender's performance is a striking accomplishment of
restraint merged seamlessly with command, as he portrays Jobs as a
charming, amiable, and engrossing person in one scene, and a
conflicted, revolting, contemptuous monster in the next. With due
respect to all the other Oscar nominees this year, Fassbender deserves
adulation for getting through stanzas of intricate, chatty dialogue
alone. And, though, the movie never matches the caliber of its leading
man's sublime performance, it's nevertheless, as mentioned earlier,
inspiring and frustrating at the same time. Perhaps, more inspiring
than it is frustrating, and that's still a pretty good thing.
<|_=00=_|>
The best biopics are the ones that show their subject as the flawed
individual that they are while also showing how their particular flaws
and strengths are what propelled them to greatness, and sometimes threw
them back down. Take, for instance, "Raging Bull", "Schindler's List",
"Lawrence of Arabia", "Amadeus", "The Assassination of Jesse James",
and Sorkin's own "The Social Network". I'm happy to rank "Steve Jobs"
among those films.

Okay, so maybe it's a gross exaggeration to call it quite as good as
those films, but it gets pretty much everything right, and it is
probably the best film of 2015. The film is structured as sort of a 3
act play, with each act taking place right before 3 very important
reveals for Apple. Although rather than starting at the beginning of
Steve's career, it starts at probably his worst decline in his career,
starting with the Macintosh conference. The first thing that we learn
about Steve is that he needs everything exactly the way he wants it, no
matter the cost. He is desperately trying to get the computer to say
"hello" only 45 minutes before the conference starts, even though the
chief programmer tells him multiple times that it's impossible. We
learn that Steve requires everything in his life to be under his
control, which is why he doesn't want Wozniak to give the computer 8
slots, but 2 instead ("end to end control") and it's why he pushes out
his daughter, since he believes he can't control her ("Your sons and
daughters are beyond your command"). This fear of lack of control seems
to go all the way back to when Steve was an infant and was adopted not
once, but twice. However, his love for his daughter does shine through
in moments, because he is, after all a human. During the middle passage
of the film, Steve has been fired from Apple and is now trying to
create the "black box" at his new company, NEXT. At this point, he
knows it's going to flop. He doesn't even have an OS ready for the
conference, but rather a demo version of it. He is only starting to
realize that he doesn't understand, as his daughter (and Jon Mitchell)
puts it, "life, love and clouds". He is beginning to realize that
everything is beyond his control. He now has even stronger feelings
towards his daughter and when he gave money to his ex-wife, she spent
it poorly. He was also fired from his job (in anew incredibly well
written and edited scene) despite fighting hard against it, and even
though it wasn't solely John Sculley's fault (in fact, he was just
trying to let him off the hook easy), Steve pins it on Sculley, and
refuses to apologize, because he didn't at least try to stand up for
him. Still, Steve devises a plan to maintain control and it works. 

This time, Steve Jobs is back at Apple and introducing his new product,
the iMac. He has come full circle and back to the top with sales
predicted at 1 million, but he still has things to sort out. He has a
conversation with Andy Hertzfeldt, the man he was forcing to make the
Mac talk at the beginning. Andy cares for Steve's wife and daughter, so
he does the sensible thing and pays for Steve's daughter's tuition for
college since Steve wouldn't do it because he took his ex wife selling
the house that he paid for as a personal insult to him to him from his
daughter when in reality it was simply because she is having a tough
time financially. He is angry at him for "acting like her father", but
Andy responds "someone had to". It only hardens the blow that Andy
confesses to never liking Steve right after, and though he says he is
indifferent as to whether people hate him or not, he seems upset. He
also starts thinking about his daughter, and imagining talking to her.
He then is shown by Joanna that the Time magazine at the beginning was
never meant to be about him. He realizes that he is not always the
center of attention and not everyone is out to get him. Next he is with
Sculley, and now he realizes that he is not an efficient computer, but
an inefficient human and he has to embrace his humanistic side because
that is what he is and there is no escaping it. He even used to go to
his birth father's restaurant but would never admit to it simply
because it was only one more thing to worry about, a distraction in his
eyes. It is then when he tries to make up with his daughter, ending in
her yelling at him and exposing that he is just as flawed as the rest
of us. She storms to the roof, and Steve Jobs follows. Like she
predicted in the NEXT conference, his "regretful" song has started
playing. He tells her that LISA wasn't a coincidence, and is far more
interested in her than the important conference. He is even willing to
be late to it so he can hear one of her essays, and it is specifically
emphasized earlier in the film that being late to these is something he
would never do, not by a second. It is now, because of her and his
concern for her, that he comes up with the idea for the iPod. Then he
walks out onto the stage, with his daughter watching in the background,
again something he wouldn't allow before, and without saying a word,
both literally (camera wise) and figuratively puts her into focus and
starts walking towards her with his back to his computer and his
business.
