
I'm struggling to understand how this got such good reviews. I usually
rate the IMDb score as the gold standard but something has gone
seriously wrong here. I did see the trailer, it was good and contained
the only laughs of the movie. The movie was truly the most tedious
thing I have ever experienced. Why did it get such good reviews from
critics and such a high score on IMDb? User reviews here are spot on.
Not a single good review. The reviewer above who mentioned he had sat
down to more entertaining bowel movements surpassed any joke in the
film.

Something is very wrong here.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm wondering if the infant in the film has fired her agent for landing
her this gig.

I love bawdy humor. I actually love bad movies ("The Thing With Two
Heads", for example) but this one misses on every count and I'm
supremely puzzled by the positive reviews along with alleged media
critics asking if this is the "...funniest comedy of the year?"

Really?

The basic concept was not a bad one -- partying frat boys next door to
a 30-something-couple-with-infant trying to retain their youthful
coolness -- that the couple never convinces you they had in the first
place.

As a former journalist who knows many useless small details, it grated
on me that the frat house operated so far outside of municipal
regulations its existence would never have been allowed along with
rickety plot gimmicks that derail the couple's efforts to uproot the
frat boys through official means.

The sexual humor was uncomfortably crude and unfunny rather than bawdy
(i.e., the scene where a frat boy wins a fight using his erection) and
there is not the slightest success in creating the most threadbare aura
of believability necessary for genuine comedy.

Those who made this film could have taken some lesson's from Chaucer's
Miller's Tale on how to handle off-color sexual humor and scatology
with precision and good effect.

It seemed the writers thought up crude things and then
reverse-engineered them into the script making it a collection of
rather dumb gags disconnected from a discernible story arc.

My afternoon viewing of this film was interesting in that the entire
audience was 60 or older and when the film ended the house was silent.
<|_=00=_|>
As I write this review, there are around 200 reviews posted. As far as
I can tell, fewer than 10 of them rate this film at 7 stars or above,
yet its average rating is slightly more than 7 stars. In fact, while
the vast majority of reviews on the first five pages give it only 1
star, the ratings summary says that only 1.2% of those rating it gave
it just 1 star.

This is a long way of saying that it's now inescapable fact that
trolls, spoofers, and studio shills dominate the site. A system is only
useful until enough people figure out how to game it, and this is
(sadly) now the case for this site.

On to the review: Neighbors had a big challenge to overcome with me, as
I just don't normally find Seth R. and his "Seth Pack" to be very
funny. Unfortunately, this film fails on every level to provide either
humor or entertainment. It's a rare film that can depict all characters
as totally unsympathetic and get away with it. After all, the viewer
needs to be able to identify with SOMEONE in a story or film, even if
it's the third-party narrator. This movie has absolutely no sympathetic
characters in it at all. It's the essence of comedic nihilism. I didn't
like any of the characters, none of them said anything that was vaguely
funny, and I didn't identify with any point of view expressed in the
film. To make matters worse, the director relied solely on profanity
and T&A for shock value.

Totally worthless movie. Don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
There was promise in the premise of two opposites dealing with a too
close for comfort situation. Sadly, every single element here is the
worst of the worst. From the writing, to the non existent "comedy", to
the horrible casting choices and the lack of chemistry in many of the
different couples here. It's hard to feel any empathy for the old
couple, or even believe any of the brothers were really fond of each
other, and the unbelievably stupidity of the script dragged everyone to
even lower levels. This was one time when one was wishing for negative
numbers to be used for ratings here.

Seth Rogen, usually a very likable everyday type only annoys everyone
from the beginning, and Gowan can't lend any credibility to her role as
the wife of this loser. This is probably to the fact she has always
played women who are either a plain Jane type or have the ability to
manipulate or deceive those around them. She doesn't seem capable of
showing any degree of sexiness, and the dialog she has been given makes
the situation more ludicrous than ever.

Here comes Zach who doesn't fare as badly, but there is still nothing
he can do with the horrible puns, lines, and directions, if we can call
them given to him by whoever was directing this mess. Sitting through
this is probably the equivalent of water torture, medieval sadism, or
something worse. It was torture for the sense because of the endless
barrage of vulgarity, ineptitude, and huge amounts of contempt for
those in the audience. It was offensive in so many levels with its
visual display of scenes that deserve an NC-17 more than an R.
Language, visuals, jokes, special effects, everything is here was
deplorable and disgusting.

It's not that we had a couple of desperate morons trying to outdo each
other in order to stop a situation like this. We have seen it before,
and it has been at least entertaining or done in a creative manner to
suggest an action, rather to give unnecessary graphic imagery. What is
happening here? We had "The Watch" and their obsession with male
private parts and scatological jokes, then "The Wolf" came along, and
we were supposed to believe drug abuse was good cinema, and now this
came to top everything else. A big problem was that this is lending no
credibility to what critics might potentially say in the future. I
truly don't understand what film they saw, but there is absolutely
nothing to recommend about this disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a great comedy movie,this film is certainly not
for you. It is an awful R-rated movie with sex and without comedy. It
will remind you of Jackass because you will see graphic nudity (sexual
intercourse between a man and a woman,a man was forced to suck a
dildo,people reveal their butts and throw fire works by means of their
butts). Honestly,I did not find this movie worth watching at
all,because it lacks 90 % of comedy and it tries to tempt the audience
to see it through cheesy and explicit sex. Take my advice and save your
money and time and see a better movie. Do not believe the hyperbolic
rating!. Neighbors(2014) is an awful sex movie that disguises as a
comedy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Holy mother of god this film is awful. I went with my eyes fully open,
expecting a tasteless, crass assault on the senses, and I was in the
mood for exactly that. Sometimes those kinds of movies are just what
you want even if you come out after feeling like you should scrub
yourself vigorously with bleach-soaked sandpaper and say a million hail
mary's.

And this film delivers... half the package. It is crass and
unnecessarily rude, chucking in a few c-words for shock value, a few
boobs to keep the spotty teenagers (and spotty adults) happy, a bit of
violence etc etc. But WHERE WERE THE FRIGGING LAUGHS? I chuckled about
3 times, and one of them was because I heard my mate laugh and assumed
I had missed a joke (he was in fact, quite understandably, attempting
to suffocate himself by ramming his head into his Pick N Mix).

There were a couple of promising moments in the opening scenes which I
can't even remember now. If I had known that they were to be the only
laughs in the entire film I would have made more of an effort to record
them. As it was I blithely assumed that there would be more to come. In
retrospect I blush at my naivety.

Millions of my brain cells short-circuited themselves just so that this
utter toilet-juice could not be transmitted into my head. If you suffer
from seizures/are prone to heart problems/or are at risk from having a
stroke... do not worry, you are more likely to die from boredom/suicide
as you watch this brain hemorrhage of a film.

Everything about it is annoying - the actors are annoying, the script
is annoying, the product placement is annoying, the music, the plot
(hahaha), the pacing, the *stupid* *unfunny* 'hilarious' to-and-fro's
between Seth Rogen and Rosie Byrne, the sickly Hollywood moralising ...
all *annoying*, and worse still sometimes just plain dull. How do you
make a film of this genre *dull*, I mean at very least you expect it
will tick along at a reasonable pace; even if it is depressingly badly
done surely the loud noises and flashing lights will stimulate some
part of your brain, yes? You would think so because you are a rational
human being and someone has placed a product in front of your eyes that
cost millions of dollars to produce; something that took months of
writing, planning, acting (cough), editing, all done by *professional*
film makers working for a major Hollywood film production company. But
no. I have sat through more exciting and rewarding bowel-movements (by
a huge margin, but then perhaps that's setting the bar a little high).
You probably get the idea: I didn't like it.

I know I mentioned the 'comedy' 'back and forths' between Rogen and
Byrne, but I feel it is necessary to clearly state that you will feel
physically sick during these. They have attempted to make these
exchanges appear spontaneous, as if the comic tension between the two
of them was crackling and sparkling with such fury that the director
just said 'hey you guys, you don't need a script, you don't need me,
hell you just stand there and vomit me comedy gold'. Well they
vomited... right over your clothes and in your hair and in your eyes.
Like a children's birthday party where Uncle Bertie gave them all the
lemonade and cake they could eat *before* he let them get on the bouncy
castle.

I feel much better, thank you IMDb for allowing me to undergo this
therapeutic experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't laugh once during the entire movie. The writing was lame and
the acting was horrible. The movie was probably geared to 16 year old
boys. The cash I spent to watch this piece of crap would have been
better used to wipe my rear. Conversations between the husband and wife
went like this; we're gonna do it ! Yes, let's do it ! Are you sure you
want to do it? Yes let's do it. OK I will do it to them. You go baby
and do it to them. OK, here I go. I wanted to puke the writing was so
bad. Seth should get some advice from a new agent because of the crap
projects he has been in lately. I can't think of a single redeeming
character or line during the entire movie.
<|_=00=_|>
My distaste for "Neighbors" has little to do with the overall poorness
of its quality. What gets me is the film's basic opinion of what is, or
should be considered, funny - an opinion that disgusts and depresses
me, and doesn't speak well of who we are as people. Seth Rogen (moping
around without a hint of comic energy or skill) plays a loser who gets
drenched with a deluge of filthy butt gags. Now comes the depressing
part: The movie (just like several Will Ferrel films) can't think of
anything for the "hero" to do with himself except to hurt and humiliate
the people who interfere with with desire to get what he wants. And
we're supposed to LIKE it. We're supposed to be CHEERING for these
babyish acts of sadism. Cruelty and amorality CAN, in fact, be a source
of humor (I consider "Ruthless People" one of the greatest comedies
ever), and "Neighbors" does provide one character (an ego maniacal
Me-generation yype) who's a fit target for the audience to enjoy a
little slap-down. But this overall assumption that there's an inherent
joy in seeing innocent people get injured or embarrassed (also
characteristic of Adam Sandler movies) leaves me asking, "What kind of
world am I living in? What's WRONG with people?"
<|_=00=_|>
If there were any justice this film should be a career killer for
rogan, byrne, and efron.

The sheer bankrupt cynicism that gets these worthless pictures financed
is more or less guaranteed because they keep making money from a feral
generation who think this is what humour is.

But this is a comedy without humour or any redeeming merit. The studios
go on believing rogan is funny because his films reference a lost
generation of sybaritic wastrels, who have no cannon of judgement by
which to measure taste and intelligence, but who have the price of a
ticket.

The mistakes are all in the writing -- the work of two no-hopers whose
only track record is in collaborating with each other. They should go
back and study the rudiments of plotting, structure and joke-writing
itself.

There wasn't a single laugh in my audience and overall, the picture is
about as funny as a broken arm. the obscene language keeps on
descending to idiocy in every rogan film until it has no impact left at
all on a desensitised world.

Efron's performance is borderline psychopathic and his internal
dialogue shows on his face as disgust at himself. I have never seen
such worrying ambivalence in an actor before. Actors don't know what is
good and what is not. They rely utterly on feedback, but never quite
believe the feedback. They call it going out on a limb and exposing
themselves to risk. Their obsequious flunkies never tell them the truth
so they find solace in anticipating the next good project and
half-remembering the last bad one.

The production is ugly, improvised and worthless. One shot is actually
out of focus. But they think you don't notice such things.

Do not see this film. Save your money. Don't encourage them to make
another like it. Pass over the ordure you're being offered on a regular
basis by the amoral cynics behind a class of film that will condemn
this generation with all future generations.

If you saw Movie 43, then you know exactly what to expect from this
effort. Movie 43 required 28 talentless writers to produce abhorrence,
while Bad Neighbours efficiently took only 2 of them to fail on the
same scale.
<|_=00=_|>
I like comedies, and was looking forward to an experience in the same
alley as the "Hangover"-movies. But "Bad Neighbours" was probably an
all time low for me. This film probably sets a new record in using the
words sh*t, fu*k and d*ck. Together with other kinds of swearing.
Normally swearing doesn't bother me at all, but this time it just gets
boring. The whole movie is a repeat of itself. Parties and "can you
keep it down, please?" If that sounds fun, go ahead and watch it! What
is the punchline? Is there really a punchline? I couldn't fine any.
Zach Efron is, as always, quite handsome and a quite talented actor.
Unfortunately that doesn't help much. The storyline is too thin. A
total waste of money for me.
