
As the film announces at the start, it based on a true story. The
essentials are true, and to get so much history into a film things have
to be condensed. Unfortunately unnecessarily inaccurate things were
portrayed which didn't save any time. For example, Turing mutters under
his breath so most audiences will not notice, that the Poles made the
first crucial breakthrough. By the start of the war, the Poles led by
Marian Rejewski had been breaking Enigma for over six years and built
the first machine, called a "bomba" in 1938.

In July 1939 the Poles passed on all the information to the French and
British including details of the bomba and their successes at a meeting
which included Denniston. The problem started to mount for the Poles
and later the British when other rotors could be swapped in and the
indicator method was changed by the Germans. The film is correct in
showing that Turing's genius was using known words from the coded
messages to reduce the myriad of possibilities. This idea happened in
1939 and so he started from the outset to design the British "bombes"
to use this method, not after they had been running for months.

Four senior code-breakers, not just Alan Turing, but also Gordon
Welchman, Stuart Milner-Barry and Hugh Alexander wrote to Churchill in
1941 over Denniston's head about the shortage of staff and praising
Edward Travis. In February 1942, Denniston was demoted and transferred
elsewhere. His successor, Edward Travis, transformed the procedures.

Cairncross, played by Downton's ex-chauffeur, never appeared at
Bletchley until 1942 and the alleged blackmail is an unnecessary
red-herring.

The idea that there would be a chart on the wall in Hut 8 showing the
latest positions of all Atlantic convoys is laughable. This chart was
in a secure bunker in Liverpool that was as closely guarded as
Bletchley Park.

Turing's team had no input into how the information was to be used, but
it is true that Ultra intelligence had to be supported by other
information and so patrols were sent out to find what was known to be
already there.

Lastly Turing would never, ever, have disclosed even the existence of
Bletchley Park to a detective he had just met.

The performance of Benedict Comberbatch is exceptional, and the rest of
the cast good. Keira Knightley is pretty enough to have turned even
Turing, but, despite the lines that told us, she never gave the
impression she had a double first in mathematics from Cambridge.

Good film, though it could have be closer to reality without making it
longer or more complex.
<|_=00=_|>
It took a little over 24 hours before I weighed in on my official
thoughts on Morten Tyldum's The Imitation Game from The Weinstein
Company. My initial reaction upon leaving the screening room was it was
astonishing, a magnificent achievement that stands tall as one of the
year's best movies. As the film continues to settle within my cinematic
soul, this very well could be the best film of the year, anchored by a
career best performance from the amazing Benedict Cumberbatch. 

Full disclosure, I'm fairly oblivious to European history and the
heroes that had a hand in one of the deadliest wars in history. I've
heard the name Alan Turing from high school and college but either
didn't care enough to learn or have no recollection of his
contributions. Minutes following the screening, Amazon.com got $15.82
from my bank account in order to read "Alan Turing: The Enigma," the
book in which screenwriter Graham Moore based the story upon. Telling
the story of Alan Turing, a mathematician who in 1939 led a pioneer in
cracking one of the most difficult codes in history. His contributions
paved the way for essentially the way we exist now. However, Turing,
who is a homosexual, has to wrestle with his secret in order to keep
his status and his work years later.

Masterfully told and encompassing an emotional complexity, Tyldum's
film is both engrossing and disturbing. It has genius aspirations in
which it wants to exist in the cinematic world. It's an impeccable
thriller, taut and brilliant, exploring the horrors of war along with
the choices that doom mankind for all eternity. Tyldum is methodical
and precise in which he decides to unravel the story, Turing is one of
the fallen heroes of our history and his story stands as one of the
most tragic. Screenwriter Moore crafts a murky, dark, yet totally
enjoyable spy film that stands taller than any James Bond film ever
released. It's a sure-fire Oscar contender for several Academy Awards
including Best Picture. They should feel so lucky to have the gumption
to choose something this methodical and majestic.

Benedict Cumberbatch continues to climb the ladder as one of the best
actors working today. After impressive performances August: Osage
County, 12 Years a Slave, and TV's "Sherlock," this is the role that
will make him a bonafide movie star. Oscar-winner or not, this will be
looked upon like the greats such as Gene Hackman in The French
Connection or any legendary 70's movie that you love today. Cumberbatch
hones in on all of Turing's character flaws and good qualities that
make him a real person. He constructs him from the toes up, inflicting
mannerisms and behaviors that all ring true. He stimulates all the
sensual beats that keep us fixated on a performance. I can't help but
go back to someone like Joaquin Phoenix in The Master, who delivered a
construction of epic proportions. Though based on a real person, the
talented Cumberbatch ignites his own masterpiece performance. He
follows the demons of Turing down to his bones. Unsure, arrogant, and
dismissive to the world around him, Turing shows only what he must,
what he chooses, and every once in a while, we get a front seat to his
soul. Thank you Cumberbatch.

The rest of the cast is completely on their game. It's probably a
contender for the SAG Ensemble prize. Academy Award nominee Keira
Knightley, as the feisty and fiery Joan Clark, is as loose and
comfortable as I've ever seen her. She wears Joan like an old coat from
the back of the closet. Remembering it fondly and seeing that it fits
just perfect. She has all the things that make up an Oscar nominee; a
scene that will likely bring you to tears, plenty of scenes that play
as the comic relief in a dark tale, and being simply charming in every
part of the film. 

I don't know when it's going to happen but the world needs to make
Matthew Goode a mega-star. In his brief time on-screen, Goode makes his
mark, becoming essentially a co-anchor with Knightley of the supporting
players, showcasing a reason to give this guy his own leading role
sooner rather than later. As our resident sleazy authority figure,
Charles Dance shows that he's still got it. Mark Strong and Allen Leech
also deliver memorable, fascinating scenes, both getting an opportunity
to shine.

Technical merits are no shortage of excellence on display. Oscar-
winning Editor William Goldenberg (Argo) shows that tension is his
second language. Cutting the film to perfection, and forcing your heart
into throat, this espionage thriller succeeds for general audiences
because of Goldenberg's efforts. It's something that anyone can seek
out and get fully immersed into. Alexandre Desplat tacks another
impressive composition to his already thick resume. With films like The
Grand Budapest Hotel already in his arsenal, I assume this to be
another Oscar citation in his future. Shot by the talented Oscar Faura,
responsible for painting the canvas that was J.A. Bayona's The
Impossible, he utilizes the standard brilliance of capturing a moment.
Knows when to pull back and get close. Let's not forget the Production
and Costume Design by Maria Djurkovic and Sammy Sheldon Differ. Those
two will surely be mentioned for the rest of the film year.

The Imitation Game is assertive and makes a serious claim as one of the
best spy thrillers ever made. There are sub plots that all resonate and
never feel forced. This will not only keep your tension level at a
fever pitch but could leave you in tears to walk home with. It's a
complete realistic view at the spy game that stands as one of the best
films of the year and a performance for the ages from Benedict
Cumberbatch. A captivating achievement that I'll likely remember for
some time.
<|_=00=_|>
Truly excellent film and definitely Ocsar worthy material for both the
film and the actors. The entire cast are amazing.

As Cumberbatch says near the start of the film "are you paying
attention". You should pay attention, Alan Turing deserves your
attention, his story deserves to be told.

I went to see this at the London Film Festival last week and I am going
to be one of the first ones in the cue to see it when it comes out next
month. It is an excellently paced and executed script that has you
gripped from beginning to end. The whole audience were laughing and
applauding and crying in places, including the man next to me who had
to borrow a hankie from his wife.

The film switches between the drive of the team of code breakers to
solve the Enigma code, young Alan Turing and the events after the war
that destroyed his life. 

It is truly heartbreaking in places, and Benedict Cumberbatch's
performance as Alan Turing is outstanding. He really deserves an Oscar
nomination for his performance.

It has been a very, VERY long time since I enjoyed a film so much, that
when I came out of the Cinema I wanted to turn right round and go back
in and watch it again. A lovely script that had you switching back and
forwards between tears and laughter.

I know some wanted a more in depth and in detail look at Alan Turing's
life and have commented frequently that this does no focus enough on
his sexuality or the events after the war.

In this case I think less is more, this film highlights the man and the
mind. It shows us the genius that was destroyed by a society that was
seriously homophobic. It brings to life the man behind the facts and we
laugh at his interactions with his fellow code breakers and cheer as he
proves his theories and our hearts break as we watch him try to cope
after his court case.

One of the best films I have seen in a long time. Go and see judge for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant adaptation of the story of Bletchley Park and the
cryptanalysis team, ran by Alan Turing, that cracked the code of the
German Enigma Machine during World War II. Featuring an outstanding
starring performance from Benedict Cumberbatch as war hero Turning and
supporting acts from a brilliant cast including Keira Knightley,
Charles Dance and Mark Strong, 'The Imitation Game' is a powerful and
eminently well-made biopic that illuminates the facts whilst respecting
the story it is based upon. The English-language debut of 'Headhunters'
director Morten Tyldum, this British World War II thriller is a highly
conventional story about humanity that creates a fascinating character,
anchored by a hypnotically complex performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Alan Turing, Mathematician, Logician, Wartime Codebreaker and father of
Computer Science. A great British Hero. A great hero in the fight
against prejudice.

This film tackles themes of prejudice against the feminine, against
homosexuality and more generally against anyone who is different. How?
By simply pointing out, using the example of Alan Turing and his
colossal achievements, that it takes someone different to do something
amazing.

And an amazing story it is, packaged in a beautifully tight screenplay
without a wasted scene, that keeps the audience fully engaged
throughout. All the cast are on top form, in orbit around a stellar
performance by Benedict Cumberbatch that layers humour, complexity,
sexuality and the palpable frustration of a brilliant mind not quite
able to communicate with his fellow humans.

A film that depicts a man who perhaps fails the test he invented, that
is now named after him. The Turing Test. Can he fool you that he is a
real human being and not a super intelligent machine? The stress of
playing that Imitation Game is set into every micro twitch of the
central character.

Should you go see it? No special effects. No interstellar spaceships.
Why not wait for the download?

Go see it! Because otherwise you would be missing the chance to see a
most remarkable film, performed to perfection. A film about a story
that matters, about events that changed history and simply about a man
without whom you might not even be able to read this review on your
Turing machine.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll make my review short. Go see this. It has all the elements of a
great movie from the acting to the score by Alexandre Desplat.
Excellent script and delivery. It was well received at TIFF 14 where it
was named People's Choice. The cast members really gelled on screen. It
was well edited because the pace of the movie did not lag at any time.
When watching this you will quickly realize that these actors (Benedict
Cumberbatch, Keira Knightley, Matthew Goode, Mark Strong, Allen Leech)
will be around for a long time entertaining us. If you like A Beautiful
Mind or even Good Will Hunting, you will enjoy this. It comes out in
November 2014. Don't miss it. This one is Oscar worthy.
<|_=00=_|>
I am astonished at the rave reviews this film is getting and depressed 
at how many people will now go through life with their impression of 
Alan Turing and code breaking at Bletchley "informed" by this film.

The plot is drivel. If you take this film at face value you will leave 
believing that Turing was single-handedly responsible for just about 
everything at Bletchley including the original idea for the Bombe 
machine not to mention constructing it on his own in a barn, 
recruitment of staff, the first breaking of any Enigma traffic, the 
idea of using known words to crack messages, making strategic decisions 
about whether or not to save trans-Atlantic convoys and countless other 
things.

Most of the film is just nonsense. There is no way that Turing would 
have been in a position to decide not to save the convoy (or even know 
that there was one to save). He wasn't responsible for the idea of 
using standard text in messages as ways into the Enigma settings (which 
had been done since before the war). The construction of the Bombe 
machines was a huge exercise involving a team of technicians and parts 
supplied by external manufacturers, not Turing wiring it up alone in a 
barn in his shirt-sleeves. It wasn't actually even his idea; the idea 
of using a machine was brought to him by Dilly Knox from pre-war ideas 
worked up by a Polish team. Nor could the machine spit out deciphered 
messages after a couple of minutes. Turing wasn't in charge either, he 
didn't come up with ideas of using crosswords to find recruits and he 
wasn't alone in writing to Churchill; several of them signed the 
letter. Oh yes, and there were several women code-breakers at 
Bletchley.

The screenplay is also riddled with anachronisms, which just add to the 
sense of "Oh this is ridiculous" throughout the film. No way would a 
well brought up young lady in the 1940s say "Oh my God!" three times in 
as many minutes. There are too many others to recall or mention.

Benedict Cumberbatch and the rest of the cast are excellent in their 
roles with the material they are given (hence two stars rather than 
one) but that cannot save what is ultimately a very disappointing film.

This is not a biopic of Turing, which is how it is presented, but a 
nonsensical made up story tacked on to a heavy-handed political point 
about homosexuality, which we all got without the banner at the end.

Two hours I won't get back.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie at a screening. I have to admit, I went into
this movie not knowing anything about Alan Turing and Enigma, but I
love movies based on true events; especially those about the history of
our country. 

Despite not knowing anything about Mr. Turing or the events of his
life, as soon as I left the movie theater, I went home and looked him
up and spent the next few hours learning of his life, everything he did
for this country and the invention of what we now call 'the computer'.

I want to start by saying that Benedict Cumberbatch in this movie is
outstanding. He plays Alan Turing perfectly; his accent, his movements
and just the way he plays the character on screen is beautiful. I can
honestly say that this is the performance of his career! 

The movie focuses on different aspects of his life: it shows him and
his team trying to break Enigma, it shows Young Turing during his time
at boarding school, and the events after the war. 

There's a quote at the beginning of the movie: "are you paying
attention?". Throughout the movie, that's what I did. It's all that I
could do because the story and the acting kept my eyes glued to the
screen and I couldn't take them away. It's emotional, it's exciting and
it is truly heartbreaking in some moments. It was a very comedic movie,
too. There were some scenes that had me in fits of laughter and that's
what makes it a beautiful script; despite the movie being based on the
darkest days of World War 2, they added comedy into it which brought
the movie alive. 

I remember getting home and after researching Alan's life, I wanted to
go back to the cinema and watch the movie again. It's rarely that
happens to me but when this comes out in November, I will be straight
to the cinema and purchasing a ticket to watch it. 

I've heard reviewers mentioning that this film doesn't focus enough on
Turing's homosexuality. Now, be that as it may, it focus' enough on the
subject. Remember: this movie is about his mind, about the man himself.
He was a genius! 

This is the best British movie that I've saw in a long time, and it's
probably one of the best movies that I've ever had the pleasure of
watching, period. 

I would recommend going to watch this movie when it comes out because
it will take you into the world of Mr. Turing and the struggles and
successes he made in his short life.
<|_=00=_|>
Although well crafted and paced by good professionals in almost every
sphere of film making, The Imitation Game is sadly reduced to a piece
of populist pulp by the dominance of formulaic 'Hollywood' principles
that entirely distort the key events and personnel involved.

Alan Turing did not alone invent the code breaking machine seen in the
film. He worked in a team headed by Dilly Knox, not even depicted in
the film, who succeeded in breaking the code on 23 January 1940. Gordon
Welchman, again not depicted in the film, later headed the military
section that developed the 'Bombe' machine (called 'Christopher' in the
film) albeit with Turing's help but not under his total dominance as
suggested in this fiction.

Moreover the 'Bombe' was not a computer as the film states. It was a
mere calculator rather than a programmable digital machine. The first
computer at Bletchly was developed years later under Max Newman when
Tommy Flowers designed 'Collossus'. This film intensely distorts these
events and is a disgraceful insult to those who actually did the work.

Worse still the film completely misrepresents Joan Clarke who is
depicted as a rather attractive crossword enthusiast recruited by
Turing because she can solve puzzles faster than him. This was utter
rubbish. Clarke, a 'plain Jane' type mathematician, was already
employed at Bletchly when Turing arrived.

Even Alan Turing himself is misrepresented in character. Eccentric he
certainly was but the arrogance shown in the film has no real
foundation. Moreover he was not uncomfortable with his sexuality or
even the hormonal treatment he received as depicted at the end of the
film. His friends report that he laughed about developing breasts that
would increase his attractiveness to other men.

But the film, funded by the powers that are today, cannot even suggest
the dreadful possibility that Turing's death was not the suicide so
adamantly stated at the end. Turing was devoted to his mother (also
never depicted in the film) and the concept of his suicide without
leaving her a letter is inconceivable. He had been warned by MI6 only
months before his death not to continue his homosexual lifestyle (they
were paranoid after the Burgess-Maclean saga) but he continued to visit
Greece where he openly took up with gay men. Entirely happy only a few
days before we are told that he then took his own life whilst eating an
apple. His family and friends maintain the real chance that he was
expediently removed by MI6 as a security risk. And poisoning food with
cyanide was then a well used technique in security circles for such
requirements.

When a film depicts a Cambridge Professor of Mathematics attacking a
machine with a heavy spanner because it is not working fast enough,
when a film repeats the single memorable line about unimaginable people
doing the unimaginable three times in 30 minutes, when a film states
that the central character had the power to decide 'who was to live and
who was to die' (again a total nonsense because how the code was used
was decided at top Cabinet level and not by the code breakers at all)
when such rubbish is presented alongside a string of historical
distortions you will know that is essentially rubbish and a waste of
time to watch.

And Benedict Cumberbatch's performance, though competent, was too
reminiscent of Derek Jacobi's famous BBC2 portrayal in places to be
thought of as original. Timothy Spall as Mr. Turner was not even Oscar
nominated for his excellent portrayal but Cumberbatch has been included
to expand the Turing myth. Thank God Eddy Redmayne is there to take the
prize for his staggering performance as Steven Hawking.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie which oozes Britishness from every frame, The Imitation Game is
an instant classic. Wartime Britain is depicted vividly, if a little
caricatured, with an autumnal palette and a jaunty air.

A true story, sympathetically told, with good performances all round
and a stand-out Turing from the indefatigable Mr Cumberbatch. The young
Turing is also extremely well realised by Alex Lawther.

Meandering through Alan Turing's life since school until shortly before
his death, the script demands your attention and regularly makes you
smile.

Highly recommended.
