
Samuel L Jackson is the disgruntled President of the United States who
is the target of an attack that leaves him crash landed in the forest
of Finland aided only by Oskari, a Finish boy trying to prove himself
as a hunter and as a man. WHAT MORE CAN YOU WANT?! 

This is the best camp action movie I have seen in a long time (and I'm
counting The Expendables). It's so much fun to watch. Onni Tommila as
Oskari is so brilliant and hilarious, and stands up no problem to Sam
Jackson.

Definitely what you're looking for on a Friday night in with a buddy
and a beer.
<|_=00=_|>
I was dragged to this Movie today by my Son. He Dragged me to See Age
Of Ultron Last week and even though I'm a fan of Marvel, I thought
there was far too much going on in that Movie.

But back to this one. Do you remember the old Bruce, Arnie and Stallone
Movies before they got old. This is just like those movies. We get
Action, Characters to Care about Action. Funny One liners. Action. And
we feel good at the end. Did I mention Action.

Nobody is going to win and Oscar here but if you like bringing your
kids to the movies, this is for you.

Great Fun. Just what Movies used to be like.
<|_=00=_|>
An absurd story about a thirteen year old saving the President of
United States. Checked. Unbelievable action sequences featuring
exploding aircrafts and bulletproof protagonists. Checked. One-
dimensional villains who have no shame uttering cheesy dialogue.
Checked. Throw Samuel L. Jackson into the mix and congratulations, you
have Big Game.

Set in Finland, Big Game begins by introducing the audience to young
Oskari (Onni Tommila) and the traditions of his small community. Just a
day shy of his thirteenth birthday, Oskari embarks on a coming-of- age
tradition that requires him to survive and hunt alone in the frigid
wilderness of the Finnish Lapland. The son of a hunter who brought back
a bear in the same hunting tradition, Oskari has big shoes to fill in
order to prove his worth.

Meanwhile, up in the skies, the aircraft carrying U.S President Moore
(Samuel L. Jackson) is coming under missile attacks. Forced into an
emergency evacuation pod by trusted Secret Service Agent Morris (Ray
Stevenson), Moore finds himself hurtling down into the foreign
landscapes of the Finnish wilderness. Fortunately for Moore, his pod is
discovered by Oskari, who happens to conveniently be within the
vicinity of his landing. Unknown to Moore however, is that Morris has
gone rogue and is conspiring with Hazar (Mehmet Kurtulus), a psychotic
terrorist bent on hunting Moore as game.

There is a difference between films that parody or pay homage to movie
genres and films that masquerade itself as one. While one speaks volume
of a director's understanding of the genre, the other says much about
the director's skills (or lack thereof). Unfortunately for director
Jalmari Helander, Big Game belongs to the latter category.

Despite Helander's inclusion of clichés and tropes, Big Game just does
not come across as a throwback, parody or homage to the action genre.
In fact, Big Game starts off well as an action flick with its premise
and characters. As such, oddities in the film can be easily seen as
awkward set-ups as long as they fulfill their purposes later in the
story. The strange emergency evacuation pod on board the aircraft, for
example, can be forgiven as it plays a role in creating the interesting
encounter between the President and Oskari.

What is unforgivable, however, is when oddities in plot and logic
overpower the main focus of the film. Instead of focusing on Oskari's
development and personal growth, Helander decides to, as put across by
Kirk Lazarus, "go full retard" and spends his budget on ridiculously
exaggerated action sequences. The tonal shift, beginning with Oskari's
decision to jump onto a freezer transported by a helicopter, is the
"jumping the shark" moment that marks the descend of the film into a
ludicrous b-grade movie; so much so that Jackson and Tommila's
performances are lost in face of the bizarre comic book violence. 

Plot loopholes are also abundant in the film, making the viewing of the
film a strange experience. For instance, CIA terrorist expert Hurbert's
(Jim Broadbent) involvement in the President's assisnation is not
clearly explained; the same with his relationship with Hazar. Felicity
Huffman's lack of lines as the bland CIA Director also suggests that
the film has been edited and re-edited into a pale translation of the
original script.

That being said, Big Game can be enjoyable if you are a connoisseur of
B-grade action flicks. With it campy plot and exaggerated action
sequences, Big Game is one action-adventure flick that B-grade movie
lovers should not miss.
<|_=00=_|>
Looking at the other reviews, there seems to be a miscommunication
about what type of film this is.

So this reviewer will be crystal clear: from the moment film first went
into the camera, this project was intended a family/kids film destined
to appear on cable channels all over the world either on a Saturday
matinée or in the after-dinner hours.

Aside from Sam Jackson (whom I have been calling in my reviews since
the 1990s "the most overexposed actor in film history") everyone else
is second tier B movie material.

This is not die-hard "puberty edition." This is about fathers and sons
and everything else is secondary to that.

So, now that we are crystal, it is really not bad. The effects are
good, the bad guys are convincing, and even the action scenes work
well.

Above average kids flick.
<|_=00=_|>
"Not political, not religious. He is just a certified grade-A
psychopath." 

I thought "Why the hell not ?" after seeing the poster of "Big Game".
An adventure film, clearly aimed at a younger audience, with Air Force
One crashing down somewhere in a Finnish forest and with the US
president trying to saving himself with the help of a Finnish boy who
just happens to undergo a local ritual so he can prove himself to the
male population. And after I saw that Samuel L. Jackson also took part
in this movie as the missing president, I didn't hesitate for a second.
It's true that Jackson played some minor roles before this ("Oldboy",
"Reasonable Doubt" and "Robocop"), yet I was pleasantly surprised by
his last performance in "Kingsman: The secret service". So I went on
the assumption that this was going to be a likable youth film, full of
unabashed and not too far-fetched action.

Boy oh boy. I didn't expect this to be such a crappy movie full of
improbabilities, ridiculous situations and coincidences. Admittedly,
it's indeed aiming for a younger audience, filled with teenage boys,
who can have nice dreams that same night after watching such a film and
imagine themselves acting as such a hero. But I'm convinced that most
of them will shake their heads out of disapproval, while wondering if
the makers of this film actually were convinced that they are really so
naive.

First lets start with the positive aspects. The scenery is matchless
and breathtaking beautiful. I had no idea that Finland looked like that
and I was tempted immediately to choose this country as a destination
for my next holiday. Onni Tommila, a youthful Finnish actor, performed
properly and does his job as the Finnish guide Oskari remarkably well.
The entire film is clearly a homage to earlier films with youthful
heroism as a central theme. It's a kind of film like "Indiana Jones and
the Temple of Doom" in which Short Round plays a prominent role or a
typical Spielberg film like "Empire of the Sun". It brings back the
nostalgia of fathers going to the cinema with their son to enjoy a cool
film for guys. A prerequisite for such films is that the youthful
contribution should smoothly transcend the ingenuity of the adults. In
other words, the adults are presented as utter fools.

What bothered me the most about this movie, were the totally absurd
situations that arose. I admit, when you look at it from the
perspective of a young person and you don't take it too serious, it
comes across as an entertaining movie. A sort of "Home Alone" in a
forest, where you're always a bit smarter and faster than the bad guys.
But there are limits. Firstly I would like to purchase the brand of
freezer they used here, because I think this high-tech-wonder-equipment
is indestructible. Swinging under a helicopter, mowing through the
woods, tumbling from a mountain, splashing into a lake and afterwards
popping up out of the water like a purebred Russian submarine. And this
"undamaged" ! Now that's what I call solid quality. But beware ! Make
sure you don't end up inside this miracle appliance, because apparently
it can't be opened from the inside. The number of accidental meetings
is huge. Coincidentally, the probe with the POTUS is landing where
Oskari made his camp. The freezer pops out of the water where Air Force
One incidentally crashed. And you just need to follow a suspicious
helicopter on satellite, and you end up looking at POTUS. The criminal
Hazar (Mehmet Kurtulus) apparently isn't such a hot-shot criminal
afterall, because he doesn't even know how to load an automatic rifle.
And the way the satellite images are used in the Pentagon to follow the
president, is just hilarious.

I admit, It shouldn't always be that serious and occasionally a lightly
youth film is also welcome, but there are limits to follies and
ridiculous situations. As a boy I'd fall for this blindly. But as an
adult, who started watching this film unprepared, it gradually began to
annoy me more and more because of the series of stupidities. The final
image full of patriotism and heroism ultimately, was a bit too much for
me.

You gotta cock it, Motherf . Oops.

More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
<|_=00=_|>
First, let's admit it that this is an adventure movie for boys - and
their fathers as well. A story, a fairy tale, with all possible clichés
of the genre. This has been covered by other reviewers, no need to add
anything.

However, I must thank all the actors. This was a B-class movie with a
Z-class budget - with naive and primitive screen writing. Still the
actors managed to honor their profession and do a very good job. I have
seen many "better" movies with much worse acting. The hero, the Finnish
boy, was of course sympathetic as child actors often are. But the
biggest thanks goes to Samuel L. Jackson, he really saved the day. Not
a blockbuster role, not an Oscar winning role, but absolutely
professional performance with deliberate low-key twist. (As long as we
forget those awful last lines he had to act-out). To me, this is a
Samuel L. Jackson movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So Samuel L. Jackson is the President of the United States and is shot
down in Finland where the men and real men and the 13 year old boys are
out in the wilderness trying to prove that they are real men.

The President of the US of A is just a foil for this Finnish story
about Oskari who, on turning 13 must go out into the wilderness to
bring back some game. His grandfather killed a bear at the same age,
but maybe Oskari is not up to the task?

But then the President of the US of A turns up while being hunted by
terrorists and Oskari is there to prove that being strong is not about
muscles but about willpower.

So finally we get a story where the US is not all powerful, but
seriously doesn't Finland have an air force that could scrambled to
search the area? When the US armed services get permission to operate
on Finish territory and why wasn't any killed by being hit by a Nokia?

So the verdict. Every stupid moment in this film is brilliant, and most
brilliant moments are also at least a little stupid. It works and is
worth watching. 

What the movie is about is that if you go into the forest it will give
you a gift that is meant to both test and reward you.
<|_=00=_|>
Each movie of Samuel L. Jackson I watch, he keeps getting worse and
worse. This is the worst so far. Samuel Jackson is POTUS and, he soon
manages to land in a forest in Norway where he is hunted by some
people...(sic). When they manage to catch him, they put him in a
freezer...alive, because apparently they need the body
fresh(Seriously?). Yes people, Samuel Jackson outside a freezer is not
considered 'fresh' anymore. However, nobody seems to find it demeaning
and the story moves forward without any particular direction. There is
nothing unique to this movie, and everything seems to be picked up from
somewhere and pasted into a meaningless screenplay with awful
performances and an almost non-existent story. This movie is devoid of
any plot twists...in fact, no one seemed to have put any particular
thought to making this movie. Do not watch this if you have want to
have any sanity left.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot elements here can get quite ridiculous, yet I thought the
movie was still entertaining, as it's laced with tongue-in-cheek humor
and some good performances.

Samuel L. Jackson gives his usual solid performance as American
President William Alan Moore, who's on his way to a G-8 conference in
Helsinki. However, Air Force One and its fighter jets escort come under
attack from surface-to-air missiles, and with the planes defense
mechanisms deliberately disarmed President Moore will be forced to
evoke an emergency evacuation plan over the wilderness of Finland.

At the same time a 13-year-old Finnish lad, Oskari, has been sent alone
into the same wilderness by his father Tapio (Jorma Tommila), and other
elders, to prove his manhood by hunting and returning with a slain
animal. Onni Tomilla (the real life son of Jorma) is terrific as
Oskari, and he often "steals the show" here, as he finds himself in the
middle of a terrorist plot to capture and eventually kill President
Moore.

The fine actor Ray Stevenson is believable here as a turncoat Secret
Service Agent. Also, Mehmet Kurtulus is credible as the psychopath, who
regards himself as a big game hunter who wants to capture the
President, and then after humiliating him on social media intends to
have him stuffed and mounted by a taxidermist.

All in all, if you don't take this movie, ably written and directed by
Finnish filmmaker Jalmari Helander, too seriously it can be an
entertaining flick. There's also a twist at the end which I thought
worked rather well.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember when I last saw a movie that was THIS mind-numbingly
stupid. Compared to this, the Avengers or Snakes on a Plane are factual
documentaries!

There is ONE highlight in this movie, the kid actor Onni Tommila. And
he is the only reason I found it mildly entertaining, even though he
could not save the movie.

Samuel Jackson (does he actually take ANY role that is pitched to him?)
is far from his best and his character behaves highly inconsistent.
Everything else is so constructed and unbelievable, sometimes it
physically hurts!

The sad thing is, with a little more care, better writing and
directing, this could have been a quite decent movie.The basic story
has potential, but is utterly ruined by constant bull-crap that keeps
you face-palming over and over.

One star because I can't give zero, and one for the kid.
