
I have not seen every Disney Pixar film. The ones I have watched are
the Toy Story films, Monsters Inc and it's sequel Monster University, a
Bugs Life, Cars, Finding Nemo & The Incredibles. The ones I have not
seen are Wall-e, Ratouttlie, Brave, Cars 2 and The Good Dinosaur. Most
of the ones I seen were either great or not bad. My favourite Disney
film is the Lion King followed by the Jungle Book (1967) and Pinocchio.
But this film is one of the worst and boring Disney films I have ever
seen!

The film is about a little girl named Riley who moves to a new home in
San Franscisco after her dad gets a new job and her mind is controlled
by a group of creatures known as 'emotions' who get her through
everyday life but two of them Joy and Sadness end up in the bowls of
Riley's mind where old memories are stored and without them especially
Joy Riley's life is misery at home and school.

This film was just awful. This film may be family friendly but the film
is nothing like a film for children. There is very little comedy and is
more adult-themed than the other Pixar films. It is my opinion also
that this film shares similarities to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,
The Exorcist and The Land Before Time. Like in Snow White the emotions
have names matching that of their personality. For example Joy is all
happy and optimistic while Sadness is like Eeyore by being downright
miserable. Like Regan McNeil of The Exorcist Riley is processed in her
mind but by the emotions and not a demon named Pazuzu while her parents
and presumably everyone in the film are also processed by emotions. The
film's sub plot where Joy and Sadness try to get back to headquarters
is a throwback to the Land Before Time where Littlefoot and his friends
try to find the Great Valley. 

I also felt the film was rushed and none of the characters apart from
Riley, Joy and Sadness get much screen time. Even Anger, Fear and
Disgust hardly get involved in the film. Disgust arguably was the
emotion who got demoted to extra.

The film was as I said rubbish and how people loved this film has left
me stumped. To me this film does not deserve a sequel as this film is
just not good enough for one.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was built up by the trailers and I was actually excited to
see it. The fact of the matter is that this movie is boring and not
worth seeing. How major movie critics almost unanimously gave this
movie positive reviews really makes no sense. Googling reviews for this
movie proves to be much more telling than the scores it received on
"reputable" websites. The scores are overblown because people were
being generous with negative scores and way too generous with positive
reviews by giving perfect scores to this mess of a movie. If you want
to watch a movie and feel really uncomfortable this is for you. The
emotions are forced at the viewer and explained by a plot that falls
apart like the memories in the movie. Unfortunately my memory of this
movie will remain.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes of Inside Out before heading to the movie theater to
go see it. The movie had lots of promotion on TV and Disney Channel
where kids mainly go to see the exciting movies coming to a theatre
near them. Needless to say, I was highly disappointed in this movie. 

I have to admit that the idea of the story was great and very creative,
especially to young children. Other than that, the lack of character
development and no good plot development ruined the entire film for me.

Almost the entire movie consists of Joy and Sadness walking around that
large area of Riley's memories, attempting to find their way back to
headquarters, while the other emotions nonchalantly mess everything up
(I don't get why Joy was the only emotion with some commonsense). Of
course, along the way, they met a spunky elephant (mixed with some
other animals) who managed to make situations worse more than making
them better, and of course, he had to die at the end because, reality
check, it's a Disney film. And their goal is to somehow make you cry
one way or another. I just didn't get how the elephant disappeared so
quickly, considering he hadn't been down the forgotten memory abyss
that long. If the memories died so quickly like he had, why were their
thousands of old grey memories still intact? 

Anyway, that's only a small screw-up compared to the rest of the movie.
I felt like I had been constantly waiting for more character
development for Riley but once again, I was let down. The entire movie
revolved more around the emotions more than Riley, who from the
trailer, seemed to be the star of the show. I could go on and on about
the huge flaws and plot holes but I only have a limit of a thousand
words. Do yourself a favor and spare the $7.50 and wasted hour that
you'll never get back. I wouldn't watch that movie again if my life
depended on it.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was awful and extremely boring. It was just so depressing and
sadness was possibly the most annoying character ever conceived...why
why why did she have to keep touching things after she was told over
and over not to, just irritating. It got to the point where I was
dreading the character coming on the telly. Animated Disney/pixar films
should stick to what they are good at and that's making children (and
adults) happy. Yes they can have a moral lesson and sad bits but the
general overtone is happiness not depressing characters inside another
depressing character that I couldn't care less about. Should never have
been made, should have saved their money. Im very sad that I can never
get back the time I wasted on it...I could have watched paint dry.
<|_=00=_|>
talk about lack luster in this movie and lack of joy , i had to endure
watching this movie which had an awful plot , about some little girl
with emotional center something goes screwy and she gets depressed and
almost leaves home only to learn crying is good at the end . like how
does that appeal to everyone ? talk about boring .The animated design
for the characters was good but seriously pixar get your stuff together
you had so many classic movies that would make this look like a piece
of crap e.g wall-e , Up , incredible , monster inc, monsters university
, brave, toy story1-3, ratatouille etc . Please bring those kinds of
movies with great plot and fire the writers and director who wrote this
movie . they should never set foot in the pixar company EVER!!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this with my 6 year old and 12 year old and we all left
depressed and hating the movie. Disney needs to remember they are in
the "entertainment" business. This is the second movie they have made
lately that leaves you feeling worse after you saw it than you were
before viewing it. Inside Out begins with a good story line, but
sadness (better named depression)is the biggest part of the movie. Yes,
there is realism. But, I prefer the "fantasy" part of cartoons where
one can escape the bad and enjoy a light-hearted laugh for a bit. In my
opinion, Disney head's need to see a professional about this depression
they feel so compelled to share. I won't waste my money on another
movie ticket to a Disney show until can see people laughing when they
talk about the new show. I grew up with Disney movies and loved almost
all of them. Am so sad that my kids can't have that same joy! This
movie was such a waste of talent and time!!! Save your money and watch
a DVD at home instead.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a few reasons why I consider this movie terrible and why I
find it so horrifying that it's current rating is 8.5 when Spirited
Away--one of the best animated movies ever created--is sitting at 8.6.
Long story short, the characters were for the most part difficult to
like. Joy was thoughtlessly cruel and condescending to Sadness and the
other emotions, and Riley--the girl we're all supposed to love and find
easy to relate to--was extremely obnoxious/egocentric and rubbed me the
wrong way for the entire movie. I resented the stereotypes that were
used and found them more than a little insulting. For example, Riley
has an "imaginary boyfriend" at the age of 12. I don't know about you
people, but I find this extremely concerning. 12 year old girls should
NOT be thinking that they should have boyfriends at their age--while it
may start out innocent, it can unconsciously encourage premature sexual
thoughts and activity, which is EXTREMELY unhealthy and dangerous at
their age. Also, I don't personally know any girls (including myself)
who ACTUALLY had imaginary boyfriends. Ever. Let alone at 12! And don't
even get me started on the imaginary friend Bing-Bong. BING-BONG!
That's actually his name! I found him irritating and, frankly,
disturbing. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm sure young children will LOVE
this movie, and maybe some parents and teenagers as well. However, on
the whole, I would NOT consider it up to par with other Disney Pixar
movies. It was compared to "UP" for Pete's sake--the movie that had
EVERYONE crying within the first 10 minutes! It was an enormous let-
down for me, especially since all the raving had really caused me to
build it up, which made it all the more disappointing. Therefore, watch
at your own peril. Consider yourself warned.
<|_=00=_|>
I am genuinely confused as to why people are calling this "Pixar's
Best" or an original concept. Pixar has done far better than this and
even the mediocre 'Brave' and 'Cars' are far better.

Not only is the concept of 'people controlling your brain' tired and
used multiple times, they managed to make it even more boring. There is
absolutely no nuance in this film. The characters, (joy, anger, fear,
disgust, sadness), are a visual representation of their emotion. I mean
seriously, do they understand subtlety at all? Anger literally catches
on fire, sadness is blue, and joy looks like every boring same-faced
cartoon princess. Not to mention none of the emotions look like Riley,
the little girl. This is even more of a flaw when we later see the
emotions in other characters heads, (Riley's parents, her teacher,
etc.) who look just like the person whose brain they inhabit. Why would
Riley be the only one whose emotions all look nothing like her? They
took an old concept, made it incredibly literal, and then botched it up
with inconsistencies. 

Aside from the boring concept, this movie is way too complex and
depressing for children. The plot is nearly nonexistent and the most
constant thing throughout is joy and sadness attempting to get back to
the control center of Riley's brain after being sucked out by accident.
Other than that its all very dull and if it doesn't make you cry,
you'll probably fall asleep. There are, from what I remember, no laugh
out loud jokes. Way too much time went into world-building and showing
off the various landscapes and rooms of Riley's mind for there to be
any actual storyline. Everything felt extremely dragged out and joy and
sadness ran into obstacle after obstacle trying to get back to the
control center. Finally, Riley tries to run away and it just so happens
that joy returns and fixes everything before she has the chance to get
too far. Not only was it absurd for an 11 year old girl to try and take
a bus back home, it was far too sad the way the whole thing was shown. 

There were so many random characters introduced for 5 seconds which
served no purpose other than to lighten the mood, and they failed at
that too. Bing Bong the imaginary friend who was a furry pink elephant
was out of place and his design was really uncreative. When he died, I
honestly felt relieved not to hear his irritating voice any more. He
had no personality or character development and therefore there wasn't
any reason to feel sad when he died. Unles of course you're a little
kid in which case the whole thing was way too heavy. Either way its a
definite miss.

And for those saying only psychology majors can enjoy this movie,
that's not true. I can't imagine anyone honestly liking this movie.
Aside from the complete inaccuracy of anyone feeling only one emotion
at a time, everything about this movie was casually ableist. The
portrayal of depression as being something small and easily gotten over
was incorrect and terrible. Even the advertisements ("Meet the Little
Voices Inside Your Head") felt like an insensitive joke towards people
with schizophrenia or other disorders who have auditory hallucinations.

Overall, I would not recommend this movie to anyone. Too depressing and
confusing for kids, too boring and literal for adults, this movie is
enjoyable by no one. Pixar did not please its intended audience, nor
did it please the grown ups. The one redeeming factor was the
animation, which was good but all the designs were so uncreative that
good animation couldn't save it.
<|_=00=_|>
I get that this is a kids film & they were trying to use simple ways of
showing how emotions are formed but I can't forgive the fact that the
whole plot was about how a little girl was suffering from depression
because, due to a clerical error, happiness was out of office. & the
final lesson just felt like "Cry & everything will be alright". 

Given how much praise this film was receiving (let alone it's a Pixar
film) I was hoping for a much smarter explanation of emotions.

Also most other aspects of the film just weren't funny/enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not normally one to write reviews, but I couldn't help reading
several for this film on this site that just did't seem to understand
where I think the film was supposed to be coming from.

The majority of the complaints I saw were that the film was 'too
depressing for a children's film', but whilst I see where they are
coming from in some regards, every child who I have seen watch this
film (I work in a cinema) has absolutely loved it, and laughed out loud
almost constantly. They are not old enough to realise the message the
film is trying to convey: that life isn't all about happiness. I
applaud the attempt from Pixar to make a film that is not only
hilarious in places, but is also a major comment on what life is like
to be a younger teenager, transitioning through one of the most
important moments of life. 

From a more personal perspective, why should everything we show our
children gloss over the reality of life, and try to make them believe
everything is rosy 24/7? Again, what this film does brilliantly through
the message I took away at the end was that life will never be 100%
full of happiness, but that is fine. Why does it have to be? A little
bit of sadness is necessary. If a person was never sad, they would be
inhumane. 

Overall then, I suppose my review is more of a comment on the type of
film we exhibit to children, and how the Nanny-state we live in looks
to protect them from most of lives inevitabilities. Either way, what
can't be ignored is that this film is equal parts sad, and equal parts
what I am sure will become a timeless classic in years to come.
