
This is a white-knuckled heart-parked-in-your-mouth "tick tock"
suspense thriller. Hardly an ounce of fats lined a lean and mean
explosive storyline, and this one is going to hit the "career reset"
button for Gavin Hood (even though his last effort Ender's Game is
quite decent). 

Eye in the Sky towers above Good Kill (2015) on so many levels. They
have the same story premise and both are spins on drone warfare, but
their similarities end there. I really thought GK was a decent film
albeit a tad too heavy on melodrama histrionics and it ultimately
became top down heavy in its underlying message of modern warfare. EitS
on the other hand is a complete marvel. It is exactly what GK isn't. It
dares to ask probing ethical and moral questions but never cheapens the
narrative by giving you broad-stroked answers; it will involve you
totally and absolutely. We go through a minefield of moral conundrums
and nobody will come out unscathed. The script is exceptionally probing
and showcases all the legalistic, moralistic, ethical and political
red-tape as parties, seated in situation rooms in different parts of
the world (including a toilet), convened to decide whether a Hellfire
missile should be launched. We see, almost in real time, the
ramifications at every angle, from the innocent bystander, to the
terrorists, to the people in suits and to the dude seated in a tiny
room, his hands on the red trigger of a joystick. Innocence is indeed
the first casualty of war. 

Another reason this film shines is its refusal to go down certain genre
tropes. You won't see the guy, who had squeezed the trigger to rain
down destruction on collateral innocents, drown in alcohol and sucking
in a line of coke. You won't see a woman going home to hug her toddler
to reassure herself that she did the right thing. You won't see
commanders giving you three-point sermons of "it is a dirty job but
somebody has to do it so that the world will be a better place". There
is such a raw and unsettling freshness to it. It may be a full-on
talkie but I was gripping my arm-rests tightly and my wifey had her
palms parked at her mouth, almost literally from the get-go.

The acting is all round immaculate. Helen Mirren shines as a hard-nosed
military officer with a tiny soft spot for her underlings. Few
actresses can elevate a film just with their presence; Mirren is one
for the ages. This must be the best role I have seen Aaron Paul in
since Breaking Bad. His role isn't easy, especially when he is stuck in
a gamer's chair almost throughout the film. His face displays so much
range that you would feel his internal turmoil as his omniscient eye
calculates whether it will be a good kill. Barkhad Abdi, last seen as
the baddie in Captain Phillips, has a superb turn as an operative on
the ground, proving he is not a fluke. This is also Alan Rickman's
final acting role and I literally count down the minutes that he will
disappear from the big screen. The utterly memorable line he delivers
with that quietly supercilious voice of his send chills down my spine.
I am going to miss this fine actor. 

Eye in the Sky is superbly cerebral and morally thought-provoking; a
suspense thriller for intelligent people. It is impossible to come out
of this 102-minute film and not have your soul shattered in some way.
This is one of those films you shouldn't watch alone because you would
immediately want to discuss with someone which side of the fence you
would sit on and count the dire consequences. Is there even a right
side?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was all of a sudden for me. "GoodKill" was the previous
movie I saw which was made on the pilot behind the control's of the
drones. But this took the movie to another level and did not let it
stay stagnant.

I went into watching this movie with no idea, apart from the fact Aaron
Paul and Helen Mirren are in it. It took me on a edge of the seat, nail
biting suspense to understanding of all the decisions and effort that
goes into putting a mission into effect. 

If you wanna see a rare movie, shot splendidly, beautiful cast, perfect
emotions and acting - this is a movie to watch. It might even crack
your tears up if your so engrossed into the role these actors play in
this movie. 

One to watch, and I feel one to definitely own in Blue Ray.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike Good Kill, which is more focused on a drone pilot's life this
movie is focused on a military joint operation between UK, US and
Kenyan Forces against Al Shabab terrorists.

This movie is about ethical conundrum of drone attacks and killing
innocent people in the process.

It's an intense film well acted and it really reflects how difficult it
gets to give clearance for an attack when an innocent life gets in
close proximity to a target.

There is a conflict between human ethics and achieving military
objective. 

Can 1 innocent life be sacrificed in order to save many? That's the
question on which the whole movie revolves around.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has talented star power and an interesting premise, albeit
this type of film has already been done, but where it fails is the
inaction by Aaron's character and his unwillingness to follow orders.
His actions challenge a direct order, and in real life scenario under
these circumstances this would not happen.. he would be removed. It
becomes a moral lecture on when it's right to take a life. The movie
could easily have been a one hour show but it spends too much time
debating and discussing the 'hit', all because a little girl is in
danger. I mean, gimme a break... there are seriously bad people
conspiring in the building in question and can be taken out with a
accurate strike from the drone. 

I'm not sure about others who saw this movie, but I was starting to
squirm in my seat and mule out loud.. "just press the damn button"!!
The movie fails not because it isn't well acted or the story has no
potential. It fails because it is unrealistic. The trigger man would
not see one girl as sufficient collateral damage when many high risk
targets are at stake, targets that have not been in one place for
years! 

If you like a movie that tries to show the sensitive and caring side of
a young inexperienced man whose job it is to carry out orders from a
group of senior experts who've dedicated their life to tracking these
terrorists but is allowed to stall the decision at the risk of losing
the shot by dithering over the possibility (they debate percentages of
death ad nauseum) of a cute a little girl dying, then you'll like this
movie. But I think most of us know the post 9/11 world we live in and
how lucky the military would be to finally after years eliminate a
number of known terrorists with one strike and not dedicate 45 minutes
of a movie to hand-wringing and needless prevarication. It didn't make
me yawn so much as make me angry... see it if you like, and tell me if
you don't start pushing an imaginary button on your theater arm rest...
<|_=00=_|>
"Eye in the Sky" is an excellent examination of ethical decision-making
and action within the complexity of the military and government
structures. Explored through a complex ethical scenario, this work is
illustrative of many important aspects of the process (such as moral
sensitivity in military and government, moral reasoning, motivation,
character, ...) as they are portrayed and examined through the
decisions, judgements and actions of the various participants and
stakeholders. This movie is very well paced and is supported by a
stunning cast! The action scenes really make this into a thriller.
Great to have Gavin Hood return to TIFF with this excellent work, ten
years after "Tsotsi" made a splash here in Toronto!
<|_=00=_|>
Director Gavin Hood's previous film, the underrated Ender's Game,
focused upon the increasingly virtual, high-tech surveillance and
disengaged nature of modern warfare. These elements of Ender's Game are
clearly visible in the director's latest thriller offering, Eye in the
Sky. The story here involves disparate groups of military and political
personnel scattered around the world, all watching the live stream of a
terrorist compound in Nairobi and debating whether or not to fire a
drone into a heavily-populated ethnically Somali suburb of the Kenyan
capital.

The operation is shown to be a joint British and American backed
mission and the debate revolves around the collateral damage a drone
strike would cause. The collateral damage is given a human face through
a young girl who has set up a bread stall near the compound. Eye in the
Sky's original title was "Kill Chain" and the reasoning becomes evident
as the rest of the film involves people referring up the chain of
command to avoid making a decision. The running time consists mainly of
people talking to each other on phones and via video screens, however
Hood manages to make these scenes some of the tensest, most cinematic,
Skype calls you will ever see.

Eye in the Sky highlights the "hawk" and "dove" nature of the
politicians of the two countries involved, one memorable scene being
the US Secretary of State angry that his game of table tennis is
interrupted because the British are dithering. However, the film's
demonstration of realpolitik was weaker and has been presented far more
successfully in Armando Iannucci's In the Loop, a film based on the
run-up to the Iraq War. The film also lacked any strong, coherent
argument against the drone strike apart from the contrived little girl
selling bread nearby; not touching at all on the long-term consequences
of dropping a bomb on a Somali suburb. The film reduces the complicated
morality of drone warfare to a simplistic choice: it's either this
little girl or a terrorist attack in a busy shopping mall. There's no
concern however for civilians nearby who aren't cute children, or that
the potential civilian casualties from this attack could be used by Al
Shabab to garner more support amongst the population.

Alan Rickman is fantastically dry in his last on-screen role as a
British Lieutenant General and Aaron Paul is also very impressive,
despite spending the majority of the film in a Portacabin with his
finger hovering over the trigger. But while Eye in the Sky may be one
of the year's most gripping thrillers, the film's morality is more
dubious rather than ambiguous.
<|_=00=_|>
It surprised me quite a bit. Political war thrillers have been so
overdone, but this one really managed to work by narrowing its scope.
With films like this, and real-life disasters that kill dozens of
people, it's easy to overlook the importance of every single human
life. This film is aiming to remind us of just how significant, and
atrocious, times of war are, and rightly so, the film does not come
with any easy answers. I loved how the film was completely focused on
one single event, and while I can see how some might think it was
stretched out too much, I felt like moral and emotional weight of the
situation on all of these characters called for it. Maybe I would say
that the film gets a bit too sentimental at times (we don't need to be
reminded with the many shots of the characters' faces or the music),
but for the most part it really works. And oh Aaron Paul, you're just
the perfect actor to play characters who are trying to help children.
<|_=00=_|>
"If Al-Shabab kill 80 people we win the propaganda war. If we kill one
they do." Colonel Katherine Powell (Mirren) has been tracking a
terrorist cell for years and finally has found her chance to capture
them. After the discover 2 suicide vests in the house the mission
changes from capture to kill. Drone pilot Steve Watts (Paul) is about
to fire when he sees a young girl in the kill zone. He refuses to fire
unless the can assure her safety. This sets off an international
dispute as to what to do. This is a great movie. Unbelievably tense and
really makes you think and wonder what is the right thing to do. This
movie does a really fantastic job of giving two convincing sides of the
argument and you really aren't sure what is the right answer. In that
sense the movie has to be incredibly realistic. Up until the very end
you aren't sure how the movie is going to end up, and that really adds
to the tension and the quality of the movie. This is one of those
movies that you just want to tell everyone about and make them watch
it. Overall, one of the best movies of the year, I highly recommend
this. Makes you think, feel and debate. That's the sign of a quality
piece of work. I give this an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers, but with this movie that's not an issue. I'll keep it short &
sweet - don't waste your time watching this very mediocre film. The
cast's talent is totally wasted on this failed effort of a movie. I was
expecting to see technical details on drone operations and the actual
prosecution of the kill chain. What I got was a boring hierarchical
pass-the-buck up the political ladder story until a decision can be
made to prosecute the target. The notion that one small child in the
field of fire can delay that decision is totally stupid when in reality
"collateral damage" is just part the war on terror. For the drone
pilot-in-command to intervene is preposterous - he has very little
authority in the decision At the risk of plugging the print media,
there's an excelling book that provides an interesting account of how
America got to where they are: Kill Chain - Drones and the Rise of
High-Tech Assassins by Andrew Cockburn. Enough said.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailer I expected a highly-thrilling film. It was
not. In fact, I was rather bored. I also like the work of Helen Mirren
and Alan Rickman so was looking forward to this. I was sorely
disappointed. About the only really interesting thing was realizing the
scope of the intelligence personnel and equipment in place all around
the world and how quickly they can all communicate verbally and
visually. The premise was simplistic and I guess some writer's idea of
reiterating the unfortunate consequences of conflicts between nations
and unforeseen casualties, as if we don't already know that. I was not
the least bit upset about the mission going forth and feel it should
have been accomplished the first time. I was downright ashamed of our
lieutenant and his unmanly attitude. I feel this was a whiny, liberal
diatribe intended to make us all feel guilty but it surely did not work
on me.
