
The performance by the lead actor "Scott Elrod" makes this movie worth
watching. I'm in a mixed marriage, and my wife the Christian, lost
interest in the movie despite to the strong religious overtones. As a
Jew, I was fascinated by the use of religious values to help cure
addictions; it's a strong and powerful message. 

Vivica Fox also puts in a very strong performance as the lead
character's agent (spokes person), so was believable in her role. As a
public relations spokesperson, she plays her character exceptionally
well, being able to profit from those she represents, yet knowing if
they don't get help they will be worthless to herself & others. 

I'm looking forward to seeing Scott Elrod in future leading roles,
Hollywood can use another strong lead actor who's message isn't
hypocritical. 

I'm not sure why people didn't believe this was a baseball movie, with
the constant flashbacks to the daemons of his fathers voice "haunting"
him throughout the movie. The baseball cards in a closed box,
representative of his inner child and letting them go at the end of the
movie. Almost every scene was filmed at a baseball field or with a ball
/ ball; so how exactly is this not a baseball movie on the surface. It
might have not been all filmed at the major leagues, but all players
have to get their start somewhere. Whether at home growing up or in a
little league type program. 

This is overall a good movie which kept my interest throughout (yes, it
slightly dragged at the 3/4 mark), with a positive message and some
great lead acting.
<|_=00=_|>
I made the mistake of not looking at a review before going to see this
film. Had seen the trailer in the cinema a few weeks ago and thought my
son would like it as it seemed just a simple feel good film. First clue
should have been when we were the only people in the cinema. If you are
a devout Christian you could like this but otherwise it will probably
make you feel a mixture of awkward embarrassment and as if you have
been misled. A very crude attempt to peddle the idea that all you need
to do is embrace religion to get you over all your problems. The film
makers by not mentioning the whole tone of the film in trailers or tag
line effectively lied and I feel the only reason they did this was an
attempt by the marketing people to get a bigger audience. Obviously
this is a flawed approach as most people do more research that I did
this time hence the empty cinema and appallingly poor box office. It is
a shame because the acting was not bad and had it not been for the
clumsy attempt to force a religious message down the Audience's throat
it could have been enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie has very little to do with baseball. It is about major league
ball player addicted to alcohol, and hits rock bottom. His father was
also a drunk and abusive. He is forced into a 12 step Christian based
program at a church in his hometown. 

He returns to his home town and helps coach a little league team. He
co-coaches with his ex girlfriend and mother of his illegitimate son,
who is also on the team. The boy doesn't know the man is his father.
There is a lot of religious reflection and depiction of people who are
addicted to sex, drugs, and-or have been abused in someway. The plot is
nothing new and a bit weak, even for a Christian movie.

The acting is top notch. Particularly Scott Elrod as Cory. The man
playing the head of the Christian 12 step program, looks realistic and
seems like he may have had some serious problems. (Little creepy) Most
of the other addicts were just as odd and good at acting. They didn't
look like actors.

The photography is good, the scenery is realistic, and depicts a
depressed small town with an amazing number of people with various
addictive issues.

If this movie were tightened up to an hour it would be much better.

There are a few 'feel' slightly good moments but very few. The main
problem is the attempt for atmosphere which is taking over so many
movies to stretch them into a full length movie. Lots and lots of music
and camera angles always indicates the plot is thin.

As a Christian based movie, this is one of the better ones and holds
back on the judgmental issues, well done but slow and dragging.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry but I am an Addictions Counselor that attends Celebrate Recovery
and yes it was worth watching and yes I intend to show my group at
work. I know the Christian theme but it was a warm and encouraging
movie and it does follow the 12 step spirituality of needing to admit
being powerless over my addiction and need a power greater than myself
that can restore me to sanity. I absolutely loved it. Addiction many
times is passed down from the parents to the children. Addiction
destroys self and when we are powerless over our addiction we cannot
stop it is only when we give that control to a power greater than
ourselves can we stop
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, this movie really hits the spot on movies no a days. Movies made
now a days are all about sex, shooting, robbing, and all those horror
films. This movie shows how a high star in baseball has trouble with
alcohol because he was taunted by his father. This movie has a lot of
religion in it, but that makes this movie so great. This style is
exactly like everyday life. And everybody who is depressed or is in
rehab goes to groups like these and they talk about there issues and
know that nobody is there to judge you, but they are there to love you
a stay with you for as long as you need help keeping your spirits high
in the sky we the Lord. For example look at Jimmy Graham tight end for
the New Orleans Saints, he was abused and abandoned all his childhood
from his parents, he went to a church circle just like this and talked
about his problems and let all his feelings out. Then the lord found
him a new home with someone at that church group and now he is living
every persons dream, and showing never to give up your life and to not
to be shoved down, just step back up. So this movie is wonderful, and
teaches such a great lesson, this is something they should play in
schools now a days, this leaves a very good message and has also helped
me with shyness in my life, and now I am taking my life and putting
myself in control.

So, please watch this movie or share it with everyone. And don't just
pull the flaws out of the movie, its to enjoy and learn a message,
that's how movies are supposed to be.
<|_=00=_|>
What people don't like is the use of God and Faith as something that
provides strength. Why anyone would find this objectionable mystifies
me. If you have a serious problem that affects your life and the life
of your family and friends and you can stop your bad behavior by taking
strength from the Lord why is that bad? It isn't. What it is is the
free thinkers thinking for you. See the movie unless God makes you
barf. 

The movie was well acted with good production. The kids are cute, the
girls are cute and even the old jalopy cars have nice wheels. What I
found objectionable was using the police as the bad guy. Why not use
another alcoholic dad. The show was a little long and the star was just
to handsome but the girls like that.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nothing great happens when you hold back." Cory Brand (Elrod) is the
best baseball player in the country. He has a huge following and is the
heart and soul of his team. He also has a very quick and violent
temper. After throwing a tantrum during a game he is suspended and sent
back to his hometown for rehab. While there in order to keep his image
clean he is also to coach the local little league team. Little by
little the rehab, coaching and a higher power start to change his life.
I am a huge fan of sports movies so this is one I sat down expecting to
like. I did not realize going in that it was also a religious themed
film. I do not automatically discount a movie because of that aspect
because I have seen some that are very good, but this one like so many
others like it are just too unbelievable. I have no problem with
putting prayer in a movie or showing religious beliefs but when simply
saying I now believe in God instantly makes life better and fixes
everything it really takes away from the rest of the movie and makes it
feel like a commercial for religion. It may be because I was raised
Catholic and therefore cynical but to make a religious movie believable
would mean that prayer helps but isn't an automatic fix all. Sorry for
that tirade. Overall, a good movie that is worth watching but the
religious aspect took me out of the movie. I give it a B-.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a great movie and it has something more than just stuff for sports
fans. It touches a lot of serious issues like alcoholism, pornography,
child molestation, fatherless children and more. Because of the
seriousness of the issues addressed this movie it might not be suitable
for younger viewers. Then again, with the things kids can see on
regular TV these days the stuff in this movie is tame by comparison.
And the serious issues in Home Run are mostly mentioned verbally with
few graphic depictions of the issue. And the cast was well chosen for
this film. Scott Elrod does a solid performance as the troubled star
baseball player. Vivica A Fox lights up the screen as the player's
manager. Dorian Brown is charming as the player's ex-girlfriend. And
the entire cast work together with good chemistry to convey an
important message of forgiveness and redemption. I was moved by the
honesty of this film and the true solutions offered.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no special interest in Christian-themed movies but found this a
realistic and moving story, simply told yet with considerable dimension
to the central characters and their conflicts. The Christian story
element is neither obtrusive nor preachy. That he is an addict and must
come to terms with it is what drives the story, and his denial,
arrogance and resistance make it universal. If he finds solace, support
and meaning in the Church, as opposed to some other form of recovery,
why not? Many do. And it comes across here as natural given the
circumstances. The lead actor was quite good, really able to represent
the physicality and confidence of a professional athlete and at the
same time his vulnerability and pain. He's both effectively callous and
sympathetic in turn. Excellent supporting work as well; the two lead
women were convincing. Thanks to Amazon Prime -- never would have
discovered this movie otherwise.
<|_=00=_|>
The only problem would be the length of the movie - was a bit drawn
out. With that said, I must say that the acting was very good and drew
me into the story. I hope to see more two main actors (Scott Elrod,
Dorian Brown)in other movies in the future. Scott Elrod really made the
character believable in his struggle (the good, the bad and the ugly).
Dorian Brown reminded me of a young Sandra Bullock and was very
charming in her performance. The music was fitting to the scenes and
really set the mood. The movie presented a believable story which was
easy to follow and had you hoping that a happy ending was possible. All
in all the movie was very good and professional. Great to see a movie
with a positive message which shows Christianity in a positive light.
Such a movie is is rare today - recommended.
