
Absolutely ludicrous Liam Neeson thriller (which is a genre now), but,
frankly, it's just a lot of fun. I found myself smiling and giggling at
the silliness of it all, but damned if I wasn't enjoying myself the
whole time. Neeson plays an air marshal who receives a text shortly
after his flight commences that, if a load of money isn't deposited
into an untraceable bank account, a passenger will be killed every 20
minutes. The film is clever enough to make it impossible to guess - or,
alternatively, you pretty much suspect everyone and hope like Hell they
don't pull out the old
Liam-Neeson-has-multiple-personalities-and-is-doing-it-himself twist.
The film is hilariously convoluted with plenty of plot holes. When the
villain is revealed, they say "You'd never believe how easy it all
was!" They are correct. I would never believe it. I still quite enjoyed
watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
This surprised me. A thriller on a plane that has you thinking you know
all the answers (because we're such expert movie watches), then flips
it. Yes, it's a contrived subplot. And the reasoning behind this
terrorist act is goofy, BUT...it is a lot of fun. It interweaves a
really elaborate set-up that you have to focus on to understand.

Also, for people who think they're sophisticated in camera motion.
Think about that space. The camera moves in (perceived) 360 degrees
without a) seeing camera shadow b) camera angle is near impossible with
the movements they had. This is visually sophistication that most won't
see or care. But it adds a ton to the claustrophobia.

Julianne Moore is great, as always. Neeson is perfect for this role,
but one has to wonder how this behemoth of a guy fits in a airplane
bathroom.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advanced screening of this movie yesterday, and I was
absolutely blown away. I had hoped it would be a fun thrill-ride, but I
did not expect it to be as exciting and involved as it was.

My favorite part of this movie, was the fact that it takes a plot that
is implausible, and makes it as plausible as possible. You can
definitely tell that the writers did their research on air marshals,
airplane mechanics, etc. There was not one moment in this film that I
was bored, and it was filled to the brim with twists, and turns.

There definitely is a lot that went into this movie, and even though
it'll have you thinking more deeply about the security of airlines,
most of all it's just a really, really fun ride.
<|_=00=_|>
I never was a huge fan of Liam Neeson's action flicks, but I went to
see this because of the good reviews. This movie is a very suspenseful
and a great "Whodunnit" movie. It it's share of action scenes, but it
never went too over the top. Even if you don't like Liam Neeson, this
movie is worth seeing and is a guaranteed good time. Lot's of twists
and suspicious characters leave you guessing and most likely wrong.
Lot's of on the edge-of- your-seat scenes because of how well it was
made and has a silent and lonely feel to it which helps you understand
everything going on. Overall, this movie is a great thriller without
being packed full of action.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an action-thriller starring Liam Neeson as U.S. Air Marshal
Bill Marks who, while boarding a flight to London, receives text
messages from an unknown assailant, threatening that if he doesn't
transfer $150 million to an account, a fatality will occur on the plane
every 20 minutes unless Marks complies with the money request.

The film starts off with some intrigue, showing Marks depressed,
consuming alcohol and having a couple of run-ins with some passengers
before he boards the plane, already giving the audience the impression
that Marks is a disturbed person and making us eager to know what his
background story is. Jen Summers (Julianne Moore) sits next to Marks on
the plane, whose background story is also a mystery until later on in
the film, providing us with another interesting subplot.

However, the main plot and action come almost immediately after the
plane takes to the air when Marks starts receiving the threatening text
messages. What follows is a suspenseful game of cat and mouse as Marks
attempt to find the perpetrator and, when the casualties start to
mount, it becomes a thrilling roller-coaster ride.

The screenwriter team wrote an exhilarating story that really captures
the audience attention from start to finish and Jaume Collet-Serra
directed a solid plot that kept the movie's pace going strong, leaving
no room with unnecessary fillers that tends to drag the story. There
are a few camp and corny moments here and there, but the acting was
realistic and believable enough to keep the movie dramatic and
engaging.

Overall, it's a great action film that is full of twists and turns that
will make you glued to the screen and have you guessing the
unpredictable outcomes. Highly recommended.

Grade B+
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this with my movie theatre-working friend. We both were
watching this for the first time and we both were thrilled by it. Liam
Neeson plays someone taking a flight from London. The only other player
we recognized was Julianne Moore and not much is learned about her
during most of the narrative except she takes a lot of flights and was
coming from a trying day. Oh, and she observes most of the action when
Liam talks to the crew on board when the crises happens. Plenty of
twists happen when trying to guess which passenger is responsible for
some threatening comments on Neeson's tablet so that was a plus. In
other words, it was riveting throughout! Really, all I'll say now is I
and my friend highly recommend Non-Stop!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer, I thought it would just be another
generic action movie. However, I found myself to be enjoying the movie
and was entertained.

Non-Stop stars Liam Neeson as air marshall Bill Marks. The journey
starts out as any other until he gets a text from an unknown person
which says that he will kill one person every 20 minutes unless $150
million is transferred to a bank account.

As the movie progresses, the stakes get higher and things just keep
getting worse for Liam Neeson's character. If you haven't watched the
trailer, there is a twist which would have made some scenes much
better. In my opinion, don't think they should have shown that in the
trailer.

Along the way, there are some sweet action scenes and plenty of moments
to keep you guessing. You will have to suspend a lot of disbelief
though, some of the events that happened were timed so perfectly and
seemed just lucky to even occur the way it did. 

The final third of the movie, although very entertaining, felt a bit
weaker than the rest of the movie. Mainly because of the reasons of the
villains -didn't really like reason. Apart from that, I enjoyed the
action, the story and the ending. Plenty of action to keep you
entertained and a decent story.
<|_=00=_|>
The alcoholic and discredited air marshal Bill Marks (Liam Neeson) is a
former cop that still grieves the death of his eight year-old daughter
that died of leukemia. Bill is assigned to a flight from New York to
London and the passenger Jen Summers (Julianne Moore) sits on his side
in the first-class. When the plane is crossing the Atlantic Ocean, Bill
receives text messages telling him that one passenger will die every
twenty minutes unless the TSA air flight company transfers 150 million
dollars to an offshore account. Bill contacts his superior that does
not believe in his words. Further they discover that the bank account
is in the name of Bill. Now Bill has to find the terrorist with the
support of Jen and the flight attendant Nancy (Michelle Dockery) only
and soon he finds a bomb on board. But the TSA representative believes
that Bill is the terrorist. Will he succeed in saving the passengers
lives? 

"Non-Stop" is a non-stop action thriller with a simple but engaging
story in a claustrophobic environment. The camera work is outstanding
considering such narrow space and the performances are magnificent. The
plot keeps the mystery to the very end and the viewers guessing who
might be the terrorist. Liam Neeson and the gorgeous Julianne Moore are
like wine, the older they are the better. If the procedure of putting a
bomb in the rear of the airplane is for real, why not building a
reinforced box in the location to protect the airplane structure? My
vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Sem Escalas" ("Non-Stop")
<|_=00=_|>
What could have been a fun throwback to disaster movies from the 1970s,
about a bomb on a plane and a terrorist threat, is over complicated
with its political subtexts and wholly unbelievable contrivances.

Liam Neeson is good, as usual, as an Air Marshall who begins receiving
text messages threatening to kill a passenger on board his midair
flight (from NY to London) every 20 minutes, unless a huge ransom is
paid to a bank account in Neeson's own character's name. The first
death, at the hands of Neeson's character himself, was clever and well
done, I thought. But the explanation later given for that death was
ridiculous, and that's it for originality here, unless you call
absurdly drilling a hole from the toilet to the cockpit originality.

One ludicrous twist after another follows, as nearly every
stereotypical character in arm's length is turned into a red herring at
some point. Julianne Moore is mostly there just to act suspiciously,
and babble about her surgery, which is completely irrelevant to the
plot.

The conclusion takes itself FAR too seriously, going from what should
have been a fun action thriller off into a political message movie, by
claiming the two men responsible for these actions were motivated by
9/11. But then the screenplay reverts to its illogical ways, as the two
men responsible for this are going to ... wait for it, wait for it,
parachute from the plane flying over the Atlantic Ocean. Then what?
Will they swim to the UK? 

Film tries to work as a mystery, but with so very many red herrings,
startling coincidences, and plot holes, it falls flat.
<|_=00=_|>
Non-Stop is a great movie with a well developed storyline and a
talented cast.The films story was certainly an original one,and I
though I think the final half of the movie is a disappointment,the
movie is still a very exciting action and thriller from start to
finish.Liam Neeson is without a doubt the best actor in this film,he
really carries the rest of the cast and the movie certainly wouldn't be
the same without him as the very likable lead,although Julianne Moore
did deliver a great performance and none of the actors were bad.The
reason why I was disappointed by the ending is because it seemed like
there was going to be an amazing twist,but that never happened,nothing
was very shocking which I did find to be a big disappointment.Non-Stop
is a very enjoyable movie that I would recommend to fans of Liam
Neeson,thrillers and actions.

On a plane headed to London,an air marshall must springs in to action
after he receives text messages that someone will kill a passenger on
the plane every twenty minutes unless the airline transfers $150
million in to an anonymous bank account.
