
I love Machete. The character is incredible, the premise is perfect,
literally everything about it just screams B-movie stupidity, and it's
insanely awesome. I actually saw this movie before the first Machete so
I wasn't sure what to expect, and I laughed until it hurt. Seriously,
it was everything I wanted in a silly action movie. Machete Kills is
somehow even more ridiculous than the first one, this time with
president Charlie Sheen ordering Machete to go after a lunatic nuclear
arms dealer played to perfection by Demian Bichir, and Mel Gibson wants
to destroy the world and colonize space. Yeah, and you thought De Niro
playing George Bush was crazy. Mel Gibson is basically a Bond villain
in this movie. 

This is another revenge story, except this time it's Machete's love
interest Jessica Alba who is killed in front of him. Needless to say
when President Sheen asks him to go on this suicide mission, Machete
isn't exactly in the best frame of mind. Then again, it's f*cking Danny
Trejo, so he's awesome at it anyway. The first half of the movie
focuses more on Machete going after this crazy arms dealer, with random
villains like Sofia Vergara with machine gun tits coming after him.
There's also the shapeshifter El Cameleon played by Cuba Gooding Jr,
Lady Gaga, and Antonio Banderas. Literally the best plot device to get
as many famous people in a movie as possible. Then Mel kicks in during
the second half of the movie and that's where it goes full-on
ridiculous mode (in the best way, as if it wasn't ridiculous enough
before).

After seeing Machete and Machete Kills back to back, I realize the only
thing that makes Machete Kills slightly weaker is that the laughs
aren't as consistent. Machete had me on the floor 90 percent of the
time. Machete Kills is more like, 70 percent hilarity and 30 percent of
jokes that either don't hit or are just repeated to the point of
desensitization. Still, when the jokes hit, they are laugh-out-loud
funny. There are gags in this movie that make the original Machete look
like a documentary. Oh, and Amber Heard is the special agent helping
Machete this time, and she tries to do an accent every once in a while
and fails miserably, but who cares because she's sex on a stick. That's
basically the trend in these movies. You try to analyze something and
then think to yourself, "Who cares?" It's so damn entertaining you
don't have to think at all. Just lay back and enjoy the gratuitous
violence, T&A, and everything else you'd want in a ridiculous
action-packed B-movie. I, for one, cannot wait for the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of the first one, I am a fan of Grindhouse and I love over
the top movies. Going in to this I knew that it was going to be bloody,
cheesy and awesome. It surprised me that this did not do as well as the
first one or even close to it. The original was a tad more serious and
had some really badass parts while this one was just non stop cheesy
and Grindhouse-y. 

If you saw the first one, you pretty much know what to expect and what
the basic concept is. Just times that times ten and you have Machete
Kills. It is just a movie where you sit and don't think about it. Let
it all happen and enjoy it. That is, of course, you like action movies
where the hero chops every bad guy up and Sofia Vergara with her bra
machine gun.
<|_=00=_|>
In Robert Rodriguez's Machete Kills, Danny Trejo's character혰deadly
Mexican secret agent Machete Cortez혰is about as three-dimensional and
grounded in realism as a Looney Tunes cartoon character tripping on
peyote. For many, this move towards a crazier style with even more
unbelievable splatstick violence will be a step too far, the
live-action-cartoon style antics exceeding many people's willingness to
suspend disbelief. However, those who can find their way safely past
this potential stumbling block should have a whale of a time.

Rodriguez directs proceedings with a carefree attitude and sense of fun
that I found infectious, with all ideas혰no matter how dumb they must
have looked on paper혰making their way into the final film. Thus, we
have a Bond-style baddie in the form of megalomaniac Luther Voz (Mel
Gibson), our hero killing numerous henchmen in a variety of creative
ways, some innovative sci-fi weaponry, plenty of cool in-jokes for us
movie geeks (I loved the visual reference to Mad Max II) and a bevy of
lovely latino babes in sexy gear (including Alexa Vega in PVC and
Michelle Rodriguez in tight, cleavage enhancing top). Hell, Rodriguez
is having so much fun that he doesn't even care about the quality of
his CGI, which only adds to the gleefully gaudy vibe.

It all gets very silly, and with the next sequel featuring Machete in
space, it's set to get a whole lot sillier; I for one will make sure
I've booked my seat for the ride.

7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for being marginally more fun than the
first one.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems you just can't keep a good Mexican down. That goes for both
Danny Trejo's character, Machete, and the Mexican film geek Jesus
himself, Robert Rodriguez. Let me start by saying that this is one of
the most ridiculous movies I've seen in my entire life, let alone in
the last year. The concept itself is absurd, the action is something
out of a B-action movie, and the characters play more as preposterous
caricatures of established stereotypes than actual people. And I
couldn't be more pleased with the results. This is easily the most fun
I have had at the movie theater all year.

Machete Kills is the sequel to 2010's Machete. The latter was developed
from a 'fake' trailer that preceded 2007's Grindhouse, a collaborative
double feature consisting of Rodriguez's Planet Terror and Quentin
Tarantino's Death Proof. Using the character Machete from his Spy Kids
series, Rodriguez made an amazing trailer for a grindhouse-esque film.
When the trailer served to be immensely popular, he created the feature
length. Now, three years later, we have the sequel to the movie that
almost never was.

What we have here is one of the greatest parody films ever made. It's
not a parody on the level of Airplane! or Scary Movie, but this movie
is just downright hilarious. It has everything from references to
current events (mainly the plight of the Hispanic people and their
standing in America's 21st Century) to great quips about the actors'
personal lives (Charlie Sheen's President Rathcock is a great spoof of
his personal issues and his Martin Sheen's famous role of the president
on West Wing) to lampoons of successful franchises. If anything,
Machete Kills is the best James Bond satire since Austin Powers. And
even with all of this, it somehow manages to hit harder with each joke.
We never reach a point where the movie has spread itself too thin.

Robert Rodriguez is a genius. It's that simple. Somehow, more than any
other filmmaker, he can spread a tiny budget as far as it can possibly
go. He's known for this and has baffled studios for the better part of
two decades when he makes amazing films on a paltry budget. Considering
the scale of this movie (especially just in the cast), it's amazing
that Machete Kills was made with $30 million. The secret is that
Rodriguez knows exactly what he wants. He doesn't need to waste money
on things he can get done for cheap. For example, the special effects
in this film are on par with a SyFy channel movie, like Sharktopus. He
knows you're not there to see Avatar level CGI. You want a ridiculous
story filled with even more ridiculous characters doing EVEN MORE
ridiculous things. This, I believe, is the key to Machete Kills'
quality. Every bit of Rodriguez' money and time is put into the most
important aspects of the film.

The cast in this film is exquisite. Let's just rattle off every big
name in this movie:

Michelle Rodriguez

Danny Trejo

Jessica Alba

Charlie Sheen (or Carlos Estevez)

Sofia Vergara

Cuba Gooding Jr.

Lady GaGa

Antonia Banderas

Demian Bechir

Amber Heard

Vanessa Hudgens

Alexa Vega (or the girl from Spy Kids)

I could easily continue but let's just stop there. And the best part
is, not one of these characters is a cameo. Sure, some of them take up
just a fraction of the screen time, but each actor plays a memorable
character that contributes something worthwhile to the story. That is a
feat that needs to be recognized. Few directors could handle a cast
this large and of this caliber, and still be able to make each one of
them memorable.

I cannot stress this enough. Go see Machete Kills. Gather up your
friends and prepare to get rowdy. This is the kind of movie that
thrives on a reactive audience. And prepare to have a rip roarin'
blast.
<|_=00=_|>
I can honestly say that Machete Kills is the most entertaining thing I
have seen at the cinema in years, if not ever (and I'm 47).

I enjoyed the first film, but in my eyes this is a rare example of a
sequel that eclipses the original. Logic is thrown out the window, and
every scene is a kaleidoscopic, hyper-kinetic explosion of humour,
violence, machismo, excitement, sex & insanity. All the characters are
larger than life and dripping with undiluted cool. The story races
along like an out of control juggernaut & the plot twists, turns,
spirals & back-flips all over the place, yet somehow the raw energy of
the direction holds everything together.

There literally isn't one dull moment. If you're not grinning or
shaking your head in amazement from start to finish, then you probably
just don't get it, or have become dead inside. The only bad thing I can
say about Machete Kills is that real life felt somewhat dull &
uninspiring in contrast when we walked out of the cinema.

With this in mind, I was shocked to see that the film has flopped at
the box office so far, and has a meagre 6.4 star rating on IMDb. Ignore
the critics & go see it at the cinema while you can - this film
deserves to be seen as loud & larger than life as the characters within
it. Machete Kills is an Oasis in a desert of big budget CGI snoozefests
and as such it needs your support. If a third instalment isn't made
I'll be crying tears of blood.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying love love love the first Machete. I can
watch it anytime... This one, not so much. Robert Rodriquez swung for
the fences with this one and it missed. Some people will never ever say
anything bad about the guy and some will genuinely like it, but to be
honest.. it just didn't have that X factor the first Machete did. This
time around Machete is more like a super hero. He is sent on a mission
to Mexico by the President (excellent choice of casting Charlie Sheen,
using his birth name of Carlos Esteves). But other than that, (and of
course Danny Trejo and Michelle Rodriquez), the rest of the cast just
didn't fit. The schizo Mexican revolutionary didn't fit, Cuba was
completely out of place, wasn't really feeling Lady Gaga or Amber Heard
(even though she is gorgeous) and the gorgeous Sophia Vegara was just a
little too manic. But it really wasn't that.. the film just was kind of
flat, even the action scenes weren't clicking. Maybe because they gave
away too much in the previews. Maybe its because they made Machete
inhuman.. All I know is that when I was in the theater, 3 people around
me fell asleep and 4 people walked out a hour after the film started...
AND it wasn't that many people in the theater. Gosh I wanted it to be
so much better.. This is a rental, at best
<|_=00=_|>
There are many motion pictures that one might call a movie with a cast
of actors. Machete Kills, however, is a film in which thespians truly
explore the depths of humanity in this gift to humanity. Danny Trejo
and Michelle Rodriguez reprise their timeless roles for this film, and
they are joined by acting legends Amber Heard, Carlos Estevez, and Lady
Gaga; along with lesser know but talented none the less actors such as
Mel Gibson (whom you may remember for his part in a lesser known indie
movie about a Scottish folk hero).

I shan't spoil this film, to do so would be a grave injustice. But what
I can tell you is that this movie is transcendent. The plot is highly
cerebral, though the action allows for even those who may have trouble
following such a masterpiece to enjoy this wonderment.

If you enjoyed the first Machete film, you are truly in for a treat. If
you have yet to see this film, I am jealous of you in that I can never
again view this artistic masterpiece for the first time again, but the
magic shall entertain for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
I just wanted to tell people about the AWFUL "Machete Kills." I did
really enjoy the first film and it had some impressive visual gags,
creative kills and was fun to watch.

Then came this absolute piece of CRAP. There were 4 people in the
cinema, and I did not hear one laugh the entire film (The trailer for
"Bad Grandpa" got more laughs).

Ill point out some terrible points about the movie. Machete goes from
one fight scene to the next with virtually a different cameo actor in
each scene (After about an hour your begging for it to end). The scenes
are boring, uncreative and mainly repetitive.

After about 85 minutes through the movie (where it clearly should have
ended) I got out my phone and found out the film still had a good half
an hour left.

Both myself and my friend left the cinema. It wasn't because of the
cheesy violence, its because it was downright boring.
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder what drugs Rodriguez was on when he wrote this movie but he
must have been under the influence of something since it is even more
weird and insanely violent than his usual concoctions. What is worse it
that it really is somewhat incoherent, like ideas for scenes was just
strung together with no real concern for the overall picture.

I did like the movie as a two-hour distraction from reality and I had
quite a few laughs at the ludicrously violent scenes. Unfortunately
some of them made me squirm in my seat because the where not really
funny-violent but just silly-violent.

Charlie Sheen as a president was a real really poor choice of actor.
Mel Gibson as Voz was better and I have to confess that I do like
Michelle Rodriguez. Lady Gaga? Well, "bof" as the French say.

Machete himself, which to me was one of the main reasons for watching
the movie, was also a bit of a disappointment. He walked through the
movie like he was just bored being on the set. There was never any real
spark.

At the end of the movie I have to say that I felt a little
disappointed. As I wrote, I did like it but it never reached the levels
of enjoyment that I hoped for.
<|_=00=_|>
Machete Kills' one redeeming, clever moment is ironically a teaser
trailer that opens the film, previewing Machete Kills Again...In
Space!, the third unreleased sequel that will be set in space. Unlike
the main feature, the trailer is short, punchy and very funny. It
acknowledges and embraces the ridiculousness of the series and its own
shoddiness. Comparatively, Machete Kills is a long, bloated, unfunny
cash grab, lazily cobbled together to bridge itself towards another
sequel. Its existence is hard proof that the evolution of this
knucklehead series, beginning as a fake trailer in the Quentin
Tarantino and Robert Rodrigeuz Grindhouse collaboration, was merely bad
science. 

The project granted action star Danny Trejo a new 80s style action
vehicle to work in, playing a Mexican Federal Agent who is mythical and
near indestructible. The gimmick of seeing Trejo on screen again hasn't
so much worn off but dropped dead. This sequel is lethargic and
tedious. It's weighed down by dull scenes of exposition and repetitive
battles where the main character is never in any danger. Worse is the
plethora of star names that do not phone in their work but simply
appear. The result is a film that sets its ambitions deliberately low,
proud and stupid, but even on that level Machete Kills can't satisfy
and ends up being an interminable bore. 

The director Robert Rodriguez started his career with the impressive
feat of making the action film El Mariachi for just seven thousand
dollars. He also took test medical drugs to fund his short films. The
problem is that he's never left El Mariachi behind. All his films,
outside of the kids movies he's made, have tried to duplicate the same
manic gunplay. His most interesting film is Sin City because it origins
perfectly suited Rodriguez already comic stylisations. Despite being
best friends with Quentin Tarantino though, Rodriguez is yet to
challenge his audience with anything more than hyper-stylised cartoon
violence.

If the direction here is any indication, Rodriguez would rather be
elsewhere. The dialogue sequences are long and poorly controlled.
Machete (Trejo) has no personality and very few lines. Characters speak
over him with boring monologues of exposition, lumping down the next
phase of the plot. There are no jokes to lighten the burden of
information. Consider this scene: Charlie Sheen (credited as Carlos
Estevez) features as the American President who briefs Machete on his
mission. The casting is the gag but there are no jokes to support it.
Where is the punch line? There is also an unforgivable sloppiness to
the film's editing too. The film jumps between sequences as though
scenes were removed and they thought no one would notice. One moment
Machete is on top of a car at night but then wakes up in the desert
during the day. A countdown clock for a bomb leaps three hours in the
space of one helicopter ride. 

The plot is a meaningless, disjointed exercise in finding different
ways to kill henchmen. Machete is asked to stop a schizophrenic lunatic
named Mendez the Madman (Demian Bichir) from launching a missile into
the US. Mendez has a device inserted into his chest so that if he dies
the rocket will launch anyway. Machete is pursued by an assassin called
The Chameleon who keeps changing faces, and is played by Cuba Gooding
Jr., Antonio Banderas and Lady Gaga, who make little impression beyond
small cameos. Machete's allies are Miss San Antonio (Amber Heard), an
undercover agent and beauty queen and Luz (Michelle Rodriguez), who has
lost one of her eyes. The strangest inclusions are shared between Mel
Gibson as a madman named Voz, who is a Star Wars fan, and Sofia Vergara
as a dominatrix. It all ends so abruptly and anticlimactically that
you'll wonder why you bothered. 

Rodriguez's only interests seem to be in balancing casual, juvenile
sexism against an execution gallery. When the female characters aren't
dressed down, people are shot, cut in half, sliced up by helicopter
blades, burnt, stabbed and any other form of decapitation you can think
of. Some of this is disturbing and ill-timed in the wake of real life
gun violence. Other moments are tensionless, like seeing Machete shot
to blazes, only to return injury free in the next scene. The more
ludicrous elements, like the girl with the machine gun breastplates,
are dismissed with a shrug of seen-it-all-before. Remember the girl in
Planet Terror with the prosthetic leg that doubled as an assault
weapon? That's Machete Kills overall: a bad imitation, not a parody, of
a genre that was already crazy to begin with. Now it's just lazy and
unnecessary.
