
Man of Tai Chi. I must say, this movie portrays everything Tai Chi
teaches us about ourselves, our inner demons, and how easy it is to
loose yourself once you achieve Power. How Control is even more
important then simply having great power. After Watching it I must
admit, IMDb's review by davidvdb2 (Belgium) Signifies that Movie
Critics do not know jack when it comes to the Spirit of Martial Arts
and its Many uses. I urge you to see this movie, its not the greatest;
But it has a valuable lesson that we must all learn while walking upon
our own path to becoming a better Person, not just in Body, but in
Spirit. Yin & Yang. Inner & Outer Form. Keanu Reeves Did his Homework
and thus deserves an A+!
<|_=00=_|>
It wasn't exactly a surprise, though. To paraphrase a character from
the movie, I knew he had it in him. But knowing and actually seeing are
two different things. The movie has an old school feel to it - and yet
not. It builds slowly, maybe too slowly for most people's taste.
Slowly, subtly, steadily; like the bass line of a Foo Fighters song.
Like a lazy snake that uncoils in the sun. Like Chi in meditation. It
picks up its pace only after 40 minutes or so. But until then, the
audience is given plenty of details, hints and reference to work with -
if so inclined. And when things do start happening, it's beautiful to
watch. Yes, it does have a few stiff and/or formulaic moments but given
the genre and it being a directorial debut, this was inevitable ;)
Also, in spite of the genre and the references/homages to other
movies,Reeves' directing style is original.He might have been inspired
by the masters, but he doesn't borrow from any of them. Like Tiger,
Reeves created his own style: ironic,realistic, minimalist, sharp,
punctual, complex,subtle, multi-layered. Although being promoted as a
'kung-fu movie', Man of Tai Chi is much more than that. It's a
meditation on many aspects and trappings of today's life. But none of
them are spelled out in neon letters; it's up to the audience to
recognize them. All in all, it's like... a Chinese menu: there's
something in it for everyone, but some of the dishes are not everyone's
favorites... 

If there's one thing the movie fan in me wanted more of, it's real
interaction between Reeves' and Karen Mok's characters. I would have
wanted to see the sparks fly ;) But the more I think about it, the more
I realize that by not including that element, the team made the right
artistic decision which served the story, not the sheer entertainment
factor. And that's a bold thing to do. 

Well done, Mr.Reeves. very well done. Looking forward to the next one
:)
<|_=00=_|>
I liked what I saw in the trailer, but was still not sure what Keanu
Reeves would do as a director. I have heard from him in many interviews
how he is a 'kung-fu film nut' but you can never be sure if actors are
serious in interview or not. Once you see this movie, you can tell just
how much of a kung-fu film nut he actually is. He used the camera very
well in every single fight scene, none of the shaky-cam stuff we see in
most action and kung-fu movies today - where the speed of the camera
makes the pacing of the fight. On the contrary in Man of Tai Chi Reeves
keeps the camera stationary, or only slowly panning in the fight
scenes, he also used a lot fewer quick-camera cuts. Essentially he
allowed the impressiveness of the moves and styles themselves to shine
through. If you choreograph the fights well enough the camera does not
need to be moving fast, in fact it could sit in one place and not move
at all and the fight is still impressive. He still need to work a bit
on his dramatic direction but he has fight scenes down pat. If he
somehow reads this, or someone who knows him does - don't change a
thing with your fight direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer and had my expectations set pretty high. In many ways
I felt like this movie was more of a test run for Keanu. The story line
was very generic but I love the big name Hong Kong actors. I wish he
utilized them more but I guess for a kung fu movie cops can only have a
minor sub- plot. 

The movie's greatest strength was the amazing cinematography of each
action sequence. I love how I can identify each style of fighting and
enjoyed the clarity of each strike, grab and throw. Too bad Keanu can't
pull out his matrix-self and show us he still got it. 

I enjoyed this movie very much even with its flaws it is a solid kung
fu movie. Kung fu movies are released fewer and fewer each year, and I
hope Keanu can turn into a great kung-fu movie director and still
continue his acting.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't really know anything about Man of Tai Chi when I watched it. I
was in a mood for something; I just didn't know what. I was stunned to
discover Keanu Reeves in the film and even more stunned to learn it was
his directorial debut. 

I've always liked Keanu Reeves films, because I was almost always
entertained. Everyone has a few flubs here and there; so his few are
easily forgiven. 

I, myself, am a big fan of foreign films. In many cases, it's because
the story lines are fresher and morals are deeper. 

That being said, if you're looking for an award winning film this isn't
it and it's not meant to be. I was looking to be entertained, in that
aspect, Reeves delivered. 

I've seen the complaints about the performances, choreography, etc. As
a director he had a full plate, especially for a debut. The language
barrier alone would have been difficult enough to adapt to. 

I'm not going to give any details about the film. I will say that this
is a film you have to have a taste for. I do like the message behind
the film though, which is for you to decide on your own. Everyone can
come to their own conclusion, because we can find different meanings in
everything.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film and was blown away by it as a total package. As a first
time director, Keanu was very sure of himself, stylistically. he didn't
try to bite off too much story wise, allowing him to keep a very tight
narrative; no wasted drama or superfluous frames. many more experienced
directors, that everyone considers "great" can't do that. most movies
ramble and unconsciously divert and subvert their story lines, and
ultimately what they want to say. i think this movie can stand several
viewings because it operates on many levels, between drama and action,
overlaid with a layer Taoism/Buddhism, which i think he found necessary
to use as a reference to measure the state of modern reality. another
way to look at this is that the whole film is a metaphor for the
struggles in modern china: the old vs the new, and when they clash, the
conditions that are created have to be dealt with or there can can be
enormous consequences. i can tell that he put a lot of thought into the
content and the style that complements it. i don't know the
relationship that he has with his cinematographer, Elliot Davis, but it
must be a very complementary and conscious one. they turned out, not
only a meaningful film in a genre that most people write off as pure
entertainment but a total package. make no mistake about it, the fight
sequences are astonishing, too, some of which i think are unique in
Kung Fu annals. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT
<|_=00=_|>
Man of Tai Chi may not be one of the best martial arts movie made, but
i would say, its a good first attempt at directing by one of my more
favored actor and an all-around good human being, Keannu Reeves. Though
the acting might slightly be bland for the most part (all right then,
all through out except for Karen Mok who i adore), but then again you
have to admit though it's not exactly Shakespeare we're watching here.
Its a pound for pound martial arts movie for action flick aficionados,
too much acting or show of emotions would've made it too soft for me or
pretentious. I think this movie might as well be Mr. Reeves' love
letter to Chinese cinema which apparently influenced him a lot. I'm
quite impressed as well that Mr. Reeves has set his Hollywood superstar
status aside to make way for the little guy behind all the fancy stunts
and high kicks that makes all those Hollywood action movies enjoyable.
Kudos to Tiger Chen for the amazing action sequences in this film as
well in the other movies he had been in as stunt coordinator and the
like. Mr. Chen, is the real thing here. And in conclusion, i would like
to say that i know that not all may come to appreciate this movie, only
a few will, but i say its an acquired taste. Its entertaining for the
most part. I'm glad its not deep which is what i like in an action
flick, because i don't want to work that hard when i'm already too
exhausted just following the punches thrown in this film. But its a
joyride and a spectacle to savor from beginning to end. Again,
congratulations Mr. Anderson... the Matrix will be proud.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great movie, I am not sure what the others are whining about
saying it is the worst movie in Hollywood. Clearly you do not know what
bad movies are. This was a great flick! If you enjoy Ip Man or you are
one of those guys who watches Chinese movies with English subtitles.
You will enjoy this movie. There a clear progressiveness to the movie,
nothing too cheesy or corny. Actions scenes were great! Decent story
line. The main actor was good for someone who I have not seen before.
Overall good flick to watch at home. Do not be discouraged to watch
this movie because some "idiot" wrote that it was the worst movie. I
would recommend this movie if you like Donnie Yen or Jet li.
<|_=00=_|>
that a martial arts movie is not full of melodrama gratuitous violence
and/or an unbelievable plot? I had no problem following the storyline
even with 2 out of 3 languages I know nothing about (Mandarin &
Cantonese). Due to the careful use of dialog I could easily read the
subtitles of this tale of a sweet and gifted martial artist (Tiger
Chen) who gets sucked into the dark side to financially help his family
and his temple. The plot has some interesting twists and a good deal of
eastern philosophy about managing chi and the necessity of meditation
and use or abuse of power. I recognized the wealthy people as decadent
and callus. The female police officer, (Karen Mok) following her
instinct to hunt down a killer, was depicted as strong and capable.
Qing Ye is the love interest and she has a great line that will make
women everywhere smile. I have heard that Reeves allowed no stunt
double for Tiger Chen and that adds to the believability. There were
some very Matrix like moments. The showy part of the movie is in the
fight scenes and there are a lot of them. Martial artists in all their
male physicality with a limited amount of blood and gore. The careful
use of blood highlights the storyline and does not drown it out
especially the final fight that is pretty damn cool with Keanu Reeves
as the baddest of the bad guys ever. It is surprising to see him so
evil! I will be seeing this movie again. Hoping for a blu-ray DVD with
lots of extras. PLEASE. Don't even tell me about any limited release in
the US. This movie might attract more than just the usual Kung Fu fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Chen Lin-Hu was very good in this role, convincing technique and acting
ability, I hope he gets more roles in the future. As for Keanu, I was
very disappointed at how shallow and unconvincing he was. His lines
were at times laughable. I know he is not known for his academy award
winning performances, but these were on a new level of cheesiness. The
fight scenes were all great, great martial art choreography, except for
the last one, did they change choreographers? It was terrible! The over
use of "wire-fu' was so obvious in the last scene it ruined it for me.
It seems like such a wasted opportunity to bring martial art movies to
newer audiences, as the concept (although not new) was solid, but i
doubt it will entice them.
