
Assassin's Creed is about a corporation who wants to unlock history's
dark secrets. They plan on achieving it by using a device called the
animus that uses the blood of the target's descendant to create a
virtual environment of the ancestor's memory. The corporation is run by
the Templars and their counterpart are called the Assassins.

Having played most of the games in the video game series, I felt this
was a pretty lack luster attempt at capturing the story. Nothing is
really explained in great detail like in the games, which was
unfortunate but I can give it a pass since I shouldn't expect a movie
that is only two hours long to explain too many of the secrets. What I
can't forgive is the fact they continually addressed the apple over and
over again but never explained its full significance. The scenes that
took place in the past almost felt unnecessary as it never really
furthered the plot. 

All of the characters seemed pretty uninteresting... well at least
compared to their video game counterparts. I honestly can't go into
detail about them as most of their dialogue was just short sentences.
They never became good three dimensional characters but instead
cardboard cut outs of Desmond, Lucy, and Warren. The movie was just one
long trailer for the games which granted was Ubisoft's intention and
they didn't hide that fact. They pretty much even said before the movie
was released that Assassin's Creed will not be a great film. The main
goal is to get more people into the game series. That is my take away
from this movie, Assassin's Creed is so vague in the story and
characters that casual movie goers will be thinking "you know what, I
didn't learn anything from this movie but I want to. Maybe I should try
the game."

If you are a fan of the series, especially if you enjoyed the events
that took place in the present. I expect you will be disappointed in
the movie. If I were to put the movie on the video game scale, I would
say it was better than Unity (by far) and would be even with Syndicate.

Assassin's Creed is definitely not a movie that you need to see in the
theaters. It is more of a movie that should be rented but even that I
am unsure about as I type this.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie with apprehension because of the bad reviews by
critics. But I did enjoy the movie and I don't even play video games.
And the reasons why I liked this movie is because: 1. Action scenes and
chase scenes are very good and fast paced. 2. Acting by the cast was
superb - Fassbender, Cotillard and co. 3. Visual effects are good.

Now, for the critic's beef - 1. The story line was bad? No, it is not.
It is comprehensible and with intelligent ideas and uses characters
from history. 2. It is boring? This coming from people who think
"Manchester by the Sea" is exciting.

Assassins Creed is not comparable to and way better than Warcraft. But
it looks like the critics have just lumped all video game adaptations
as bad, perhaps because they don't like this genre.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was like walking down the street and someone walks up to you
and starts having a conversation but, they start the conversation in
the middle and you don't know what the hell they are talking about
because they never stop to explain what they are saying.

This movie has no character or story development. Newcomers to the
story are left confused because the movie relies too much on assuming
the audience knows the video game lore that they take no time to
explain any of the concepts like the machine, Why going back in time
and killing people for an apple will stop violence?, or why did the
three team up at the end despite knowing nothing about each other?
There was no development between these characters and all of the sudden
they are a team now? The creed is barely explained as well.

The action scenes are terrible. Due to the shaky cam, its hard to tell
what the hell is going on.
<|_=00=_|>
As many others I played the Assassins Creed games and was looking
forward to this film however it is safe to say that I was extremely
disappointed. No matter if you have played the games or not this film
was awful. First things first the script is poor. If I hadn't played
the games I would have struggled to understand many of the references.
The script is vague and confusing in parts which led to a man who sat
in front of me leaving half way through (I wish I did the same).
Although I am a fan of Michael Fassbender the quality of the writing
meant he was wasted in this film. When it comes to the special effects
the use of CGI was average. The fighting sequences weren't as good as I
expected as it wasn't clear what was happening. The overall story was
disappointing and the fact that there will be a sequel made it even
more disappointing. I hate to compare but the games were good and the
film was rubbish. I would not advise wasting time watching this.
Please. For your sake.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a reason I don't pay attention to reviewers before seeing a
movie; seems most of them have lost the ability to view a movie without
preconceived notions. Too much over-analyzing. Very little of what is
put out these days is in any way realistic. I'm not looking for
realistic when I go see a movie; I'm looking for an escape from the
daily grind. I'm not a gamer and decided to see the movie since I'm
familiar with Michael Fassbender and I like his work. I chose to see
the 3D version, which I rarely do, and am glad I did. It was a
thoroughly enjoyable movie! Kudos to Damien Walters for the stunt
work--great to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to come out and say it, the critics are right, but there is a
big but here. If you have played this game, you are going to truly
enjoy it. The big problem that I think is not going to brake the video
game curse is the fact that it isn't possible to cover the whole story
in such a short amount of time and appeal to critics and people who
haven't played the game and never will while satisfying gamers in a way
that won't scare them away from the video game itself. So if I'm
talking right now to a gamer, I would say that this movie has it all,
but if I'm not, you will probably dislike the movie or simply just
enjoy it as a C grade movie that got you entertained for two hours and
you'll forget about it in a few more. 

Now that's out of the way here is my fan review. The parkour, the
animus, the outfits, the scenes and the story was all an amazing
representation of Assassin's Creed. It made justice to the game
completely. If you are a fan of the games, you'll truly enjoy this film
to its fullest potential. Lastly, Fassbender's performance was amazing
and the assassin girl was crazy good. "Nothing it's true, everything is
permitted." Cons: one eagle flying scene could have been enough and the
last shot was cheesy, but other than that I loved this film for the
same reason I love the videogames.
<|_=00=_|>
Assassins Creed is by no means perfect, but I did enjoy it. The film
has the classic setting from Assassins Creed games, a modern day
protagonist enters the Animus to relive the memories of his ancestor.
The film does a pretty good job explaining the series mythos to those
unfamiliar with the games. Sadly, we don't spend as much time with the
ancestor Aquilar as we do with the present day Cal, and Aquilar feels
under developed as a character. The movie also felt a bit short. It
really could have benefited from a longer run time, to give more
character development to the ancestors, and explain some of the
characters motivations better. The action in this movie is great, the
story is solid, and the characters (that are properly developed) are
interesting. Both Fassbender and Irons play their roles well. Overall a
decent movie any Assassins Creed fan would enjoy. The critics like to
bash it because it's a video game movie, and it's cool to hate video
game movies, but it's not bad at all. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Assassin's Creed

No man, no, come on Fassbender, not from you. I didn't see this coming
at all. And I am disappointed with Marion too. Why would she do such a
movie? Bad script with bad direction, i mean the audience is much
smarter than some silly fights or stunts and even the visual effects
weren't good too. There is not a single moment or a thread of the story
that you might wanna hold onto so, basically a four-year kid wrote the
script. A disaster, a nightmare, a tragedy; basically a glimpse of
2017.

NO.
<|_=00=_|>
So the new year has kicked off and many were hyped to see the video
game turned movie.

Let me just say save your money this flat movie is designed to get the
gamers' to the movies and then be bored for the entire time.

Save your money for something else that won't have you checking for the
exits within 30 minutes and kicking yourself at 50 minutes for not
running to the nearest exit.

The actors and director have done well with a script that should have
been better and is more about trying to set up a franchise rather than
providing the movie goers with a action packed movie.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I love AC games and the whole AC universe. The first game was a bit
boring but thanks to Ezio's trilogy I learnt this wonderful world and
have been experiencing till today, in AC comics.

And I found this movie such a generic borefest.

This movie just took some tropes of AC universe, served 'em as a
mediocre fan service, through generic action scenes full of crappy CGI,
in a Madrid like AC 1's desert for some reason, and that's it. There
was no mystery, no interesting characters -except the black guy who I
do not even remember his name!- and the ost WAS TERRIBLE. This movie
even had three top actors and still, could not use'em well! Probably
that's why Fassbender went all out "crazy" in the only scene I memorize
from this crapfest. The script was so bad that came back & forth to
past & future without leaving room for characterization.

I honestly have no reason to suggest this movie to anyone. Not even to
AC fans... The worst AC game or comic has more interesting story than
this... Let's just forget this snoozefest and hope that, if a sequel
will occur, will be with different characters, script and such.

AAAvoid!/10

Equally disappointing to WoW movie...
