
I read some reviews saying this is "shallow"?! not funny and a bunch of
other absurd stuff like that. I mean seriously what depth exactly did
you expect from such film?.. Enough with the sofa "experts" saying
whatever they read somewhere else and actually review this..

This film is entertaining with a really unique way, (i wont deny that
the humor is really not for everyone) They create all sort of weird
situations that make you laugh with the fact that they even happening
like that.

It also includes some fighting scenes that are actually really good
with nice choreography. The plot has no holes in it, and i mean
none,everything is covered just fine.

grab some popcorn relax and you will have fun while it lasts. i would
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, the soundtrack was good. Especially Norman Greenbaum's
Spirit In The Sky suited the first gun fight scene excellently, and if
by then you had no idea what kind of action movie Mr. Right is, that
scene tells it to you straight.

Anna Kendrick is amazing as Martha, a girl so quirky you don't know if
she's just weird or if there's actually something even more weird going
on his head. Also the way Martha shook off "Mr. Right"'s comments on
killing people made me wonder several times if she thinks he is joking,
or if she just doesn't care too much, because he is so perfect for her.
Sam Rockwell is an interesting choice for "Mr. Right". When Martha
first meets him, he comes off pretty creepy, and while Rockwell is
still very charming, he still seems dangerous. Even the viewer is
suspicious of whether or not to trust him, mostly because we have
already seen what he does, but he just seems so nice, but it's masking
how creepy he is, but that is kind of destroying how sweet and charming
he is, and so on. Right then and there it's a vicious cycle, but of
course when we learn more, we trust more.

The romantic side of the film is interesting. The romance between "Mr.
Right" and Martha is cute, but you feel like it shouldn't be. He seems
older and kind of creepy, Martha just broke up with someone and also
doesn't realise how her new, uh, boyfriend is actually a killer. But
their chemistry just is astonishing. Of course there are a lot of
problems in their relationship if you start analysing it, but they just
seem like the perfect, cute, quirky couple.

The action side of the film is very excellent. The scenes are fun to
follow, and "Mr. Right"'s skills make them even more interesting.

The character "Mr: Right" is probably meant to seem quite mysterious in
the beginning, because nothing is said about him or the origin of his
skills immediately. But for some reason that mystery doesn't seem that
interesting than other plot-lines in the story. I was more interested
to see the action scenes, Hopper's hunt for "Mr. Right", the
development of the romance and I wanted to see Martha become a proper
action girl. When the information about who "Mr. Right" actually is,
it's just like "Okay sure". It doesn't seem like an important detail. 

If I'd have to compare Mr. Right with another movie, it would probably
be Seven Psychopaths. The reasons for that are Sam Rockwell in both
movies, the humour, and just something about the plot, probably how
there are several different plans and goals we are following all of
them.

Mr. Right is a fun action movie. The plot seems original enough, and
the film is interesting to follow. It has a certain spark and a charm.
What more do you need?
<|_=00=_|>
life is hard enough, sometimes i just want to be entertained, and this
movie kicks it! wild, funny, sweet and extravagantly violent in a way
that actually serves the story and doesn't gratuitously distract from
the plot; great timing, great overall pacing, great balance between
dialogue and action, perfect casting in both primary and supporting
roles. 

sam rockwell nails his role as cheerful, devil-may-care assassin, and
anna kendrick showing her comedic and acting chops shaping up to be one
of the great performers of her generation.

who wants to be normal?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer a couple weeks ago and knew I wanted to watch just to
see Anna Kendrick. I just now finished the movie and I'm impressed with
the whole cast. The movie is not very original (i.e any killer couple
movie), but the humor is absolutely spot on. It's very sarcastic and
just over the top dumb, and I absolutely loved it. Sam and Anna have
fantastic chemistry and really work off each other. I found myself
pausing just so I could laugh about how ridiculous some things were.
And all in a good way. It's a little violent if you aren't into that,
but all in a very light tone. If you're in the mood for a silly comedy
that isn't super raunchy or sexual, this is the perfect one. I loved
it. I honestly would love to see a sequel, or hopefully Sam and Anna
work together again in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
Sam Rockwell knocks it out of the park as a goofy, charming ex-hit-man;
his character is basically if Hank Moody from Californication was an
expert on guns instead of girls. All of the acting is great. Anna
Kendrick is likable as ever, Tim Roth is fantastic for what little he's
given to do, even RZA is good in his small quirky role. The main
problem with Mr. Right is the production value. It's bad across the
board: the directing, the editing, the script, hell the credits are
literally Times New Roman 12 pt font. It's so noticeably lazy that it
takes you out of the movie.

Thankfully the leads have chemistry to keep it afloat. When the charm
of this movie hits, it hits hard. There were plenty of laughs and I was
rooting for this couple to kick some ass and work out their problems,
and that's a testament to how well Rockwell and Kendrick play off each
other and their natural comedic chops. They're just fun to watch. And
when the baddies start showing up the action sequences are pretty cool
too. Absolutely ridiculous, but gleefully entertaining. 

The plot is the bane of this movie. Any time the two leads (or Tim
Roth) aren't on screen and the story shifts to the conflict between the
two brothers, the guys who hired RZA and other nameless hit men to kill
Rockwell's character, the movie grinds to a halt. Neither of the bad
guys are likable. They're spoiled douchebags. In any action movie you'd
like to have at least a decent villain but that's not even the case
here. Tim Roth plays more an antihero whose motives aren't made clear
until late, and it's not much of a payoff but it's always great to see
Roth on screen. He plays a secret agent who constantly shifts
identities so we get to see him flex his accent muscles which is always
a good thing.

I can't recommend seeing this movie because the plot is so frustrating,
but I did get some laughs and the performances are spot on. If only to
watch Sam Rockwell have a blast in the role of a lifetime backed by a
wonderful supporting cast, Mr. Right is worth checking out. Just don't
go in expecting greatness because you'll likely be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at TIFF on one of the last days, and I was a bit worried I
would be movied-out. Thankfully, this film was completely refreshing,
and ended up being one of my favourites of the festival.

I've always liked Anna Kendrick, but I don't think I've ever enjoyed or
appreciated her work this much. She was totally on the ball and
hilarious, and she and Sam Rockwell make an unexpectedly perfect
couple. The comedy was on point throughout the movie, and the jokes
were awesome and very original. You fall in love with the characters
and as strange as the plot is, the love story between them is very
believable.

Although it's about a hit-man and of course there's a lot of killing in
it, it's not too gory, so I'd say most people could handle it even if
they're somewhat faint of heart. Definitely go see it. It's well worth
your while, and I think it will be considered one of the best comedies
of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
'Mr. Right' is an absurd Action-Comedy, but its undeniably Great Fun
too! Its fast, witty & violent, but it makes for a good watch, thanks
to its mostly Crisp Writing & Strong Performances.

'Mr. Right' Synopsis: A girl falls for the "perfect" guy, who happens
to have a very fatal flaw: he's a hit-man on the run from the crime
cartels who employ him. 

'Mr. Right' induces romance, comedy & some pulsing action in those
92-minutes. Max Landis's Screenplay is crisp & moves on a fast-pace,
wasting no time in any unwanted subplots or prolonged sequences. Its
perpetually absurd & its fun to see its violent protagonists take on
love & the bad-guy in the goings-on. Paco Cabezas's Direction is good.
Cinematography & Editing are decent. Action-Sequences are sharply
executed. 

Performance-Wise: Sam Rockwell & Anna Kendrick are in Tremendous form.
Rockwell doesn't miss a beat as the hit-man with a soft heart, while
Kendrick is a hoot as the heartbroken & yet love-driven young blood.
Kendrick steals the show, reassuring her remarkable talent. Tim Roth is
effective, as always. RZA is alright. Others lend able support

On the whole, 'Mr. Right' gets it Right. Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Anna Kendrick was Hilarious, Sam Rockwell gives a stellar performance,
as usual, and The RZA plays my favorite character and also delivers an
exceptional performance and Tim Roth is, well... Tim Roth... need I say
more? Overall this movie is awesome. Watch it alone or with your
significant other, either way it's a solid movie. If you like action
packed movies with Anna Kendrick being as adorable as ever, (Anna if
you're reading this, call me) Sam Rockwell being his usual Charismatic
self and The RZA putting the (expletive deleted) on the CHAIN WAX...
then this is one flick you ought not to miss. Seriously... stop reading
and watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Max Landis' writing is unique and has both hits and misses. This movie
succeeds in part with the impressive tonal shifts in the story as well
as some original characters.

The movie plays like a Diablo Cody-thing gone off the rails, which is a
good thing, if you're prepared for that kind of stuff.

The action was unexpectedly well executed, but hard to really be
engaged with because of the chaotic approach to genre.

If you're into something light and fun and tired of the tropes being
played over and over again, then this is the next film, you should
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
My trouble with most of the genre is that movies that are supposed to
be comedies do not make me laugh at all. I mean, I realize something is
meant to be funny, but it does not work. Most of the comedy genre are
dumb, unoriginal and shallow humor movies, movies that simply aren't
good. But even quality ones rarely make me laugh. I watch, I agree it's
funny, but I do not laugh. But this one... I laughed, I laughed often,
I laughed out loud and even to tears few times.

<3 9/10 <3
