
Right off the bat the best part of this movie is the acting: Teller and
Hill have great chemistry on screen. Jonah does a particularly good job
at playing the "guy you love to hate". I can't attest to the
faithfulness of their portrayal of the real life people since I don't
know anything about them. The rest of the cast does a great job as
well.

The marketing for this movie was, unfortunately, deceitful: the trailer
made it out to be this upbeat, funny, over the top comedy - which it's
not. In reality the movie has a much slower pace, not a lot of
situational humor and is certainly not filled with hilarious quips (the
bulk of which are in the trailer). This is not to say that the movie
was bad or not at all funny, it just wasn't what I expected (and I am
sure I'm not alone).

My final critique will go unnoticed for the majority of viewers but I
found it personally offensive so I have to report it: some of the movie
takes place in Albania, only the set for Albania is actually Romania.
Which is fine, I understand that they probably did this for practical
reasons and as a Romanian movie goer I just have to accept it (we all
recognized it immediately though). However, at some point in the movie
an "Albanian" woman says something, only she says it in Romanian. This
may not seem like much but it totally took me out of the movie and
ruined the experience for me. I find it completely unacceptable that
they could not hire an Albanian to say those few lines. The two
languages might seem interchangeable to the rest of the world, I am
sure, but that was very much NOT the case for me and everyone else in
the theater.

I am a paying movie goer as well and I expect to be just as entertained
as everyone else. This is, of course, not the first time that I've seen
this in a film. But when a producer does something like this it shows
me that they don't respect their movie, so they can't expect me to.

My rating, however, is not based on this final bit of criticism. I gave
it a 7/10 for slow pacing and lack of humor, which is the opposite of
what I expected.

I'd still recommend it, just don't expect to be blown away.

After watching it for a second time I decided to change my original
rating from 7/10 to 8/10, mainly because the acting is just great and I
respect the fact that the movie made me think about it and made me want
to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is eye opening, relevant and very clearly told with a
humorous tone through the serious subject matter. This is based on a
true story with some fictionalized elements to make it entertaining. A
massage therapist links up with a childhood friend who is a small time
arms dealer. Very interesting to get a look at the legal but morally
questionable world of arms dealing. I thought this would be a juvenile
buddy movie with a bit of war thrown in but it isn't.

Jonah Hill has some funny lines and he does a great job with the over
the top character but he can be subtly sinister when he needs to be.
Miles Teller plays his character sympathetically and I liked him here.
Quite different from the rather annoying characters he usually plays.
Bradley Cooper who produced the movie and has a small but pivotal role
and he is effective as an arms dealer.

Quite a transporting experience as the action takes you from Miami to
Jordan and Iraq with some funny situations there and Albania.

Watch this movie. It deserves to do better than it has so far.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like wolf of wall street, I believe you are gonna like this
movie too, even though it not have all the funny moments. The plot is
similar a nice guy (Teller) find a way to make money doing stuff
located on the line of legal and illegal. The music was well chosen for
every scene, acting (specially from Hill and Cooper) was outstanding.
On the contrary if you though that Wolf.. didn't show enough all the
people who suffer from their actions, and that the movie glorifies bad
actions and the eternal search for money, you will not like this movie.
It all depends in the end of your personal standards of what can be
made fun of, and what subjects are too controversial (in this case,
war, guns and arms dealers) to have a good time with.
<|_=00=_|>
Hangover/Due Date director Todd Philipps makes a film base on the true
story of young, entrepreneur gun-runners David Parkouz and Efraim
Diveroli who managed to secure a ridiculous contract to supply arms to
the afghan army via the pentagon. 

Miles Teller plays the struggling and ambitious David who bumps into
his childhood buddy Efraim played by Jonah Hill who is somewhat of the
opposite, a loose cannon, fearless and a little trigger-happy. Now,
Efraim has found himself a little niche in the market, the market of
arms dealing and strikes up small deals with the US military. David
needs a job to support his expecting girlfriend, the stunning Ana de
Armas who looks a little like Penelope Cruz only more beautiful and has
one of those exotic accents. Efraim sees an opportunity for David and
the two team up to what leads to the deal of the century for all
parties involved. 

Now, the film has plenty of other film references most notably
Scarface, even one of the promotional posters is a respectful nod to
the DePalma/Pacino's film. But it's actually Lord of War Efraim is a
huge fan of in real-life and it's probably more like Lord of War than
Scarface, yet it has tinge of Pain & Gain, another crazy true story
movie. Maybe it's Miami? But it has that vibrant and funny yet serious
storytelling style that makes the film almost unbelievable and
shocking. 

The rest of the cast does include Bradley Cooper who also produced the
film, playing the harden, borderline war-criminal, pretty much the
Branson of the arms market and someone you don't really want to be
messing with. There's Kevin Pollack playing the bankroll and an awesome
cameo of venture capitalist playboy millionaire Dan Bilzerian. 

It's accompanied by a great soundtrack with tracks from 50cent, Beastie
Boys, Iggy Pop, UB40 and CCR but the awesome score threw me completely
thinking it was Harry Gregson-Williams or Steve Jablonski, no, it was
Cliff Martinez with those ambient sounds. 

The film is highly entertaining, funny in parts but this is not a
comedy; its perfectly paced with some great scenes like the duo
gun-running across the triangle of death and some nice camera work.
However it's not to epic portions, not that it should put anyone off
watching this, it's still a very watchable and enjoyable film and I
don't think they could have done it any better. 

Running Time: 8 The Cast: 8 Performance: 8 Direction: 8 Story: 8
Script: 8 Creativity: 8 Soundtrack: 9 Job Description: 8 The Extra
Bonus Points: 5 for a slick story, good editing and a great
score/soundtrack to boot. 

78% 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
War Dogs

One could sum up this movie in a single word, "formulaic."

If you've ever watched any of the movies about West Coast drug-dealing
of the 80s (Blow), or any movie with Benicio Del Toro in it (Snatch,
Traffic), you will quickly recognize one or more of the stylistic
techniques stamped all over this movie:

- Off-camera narration by one of the protagonists talking about how
smart or stupid they were at this point in the adventure.

- Wackiness in the face of danger. 

- Celebration of the stoner mentality.

- Overhead shots using helicopters or drones.

- Overuse of circular camera dolly around two subjects quibbling to
suggest "tension."

- Cool music.

Oddity

------

Choice of music. The setting for the movie is the early 2000s, and
these guys are in their 20s, yet the music is a collection golden
oldies from 60s. Is that the music the producers like? Is it aimed at
the suspected target audience?

Nitpicks

-------

The lead character says "Bro" more times than any character in any
movie in history. Guess that's a refreshing change from "dude." LOL.

Aside from all that, I still liked the movie, just thought is was
hackneyed and formulaic.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Todd Phillips, mostly famous for The Hangover trilogy, decided
to make a military/economic thriller. It sounds as quite a radical
change, but after a few seconds, it's clear that War Dogs will employ
the absurd and surrealistic humor Phillips is accustomed to work with.
The only difference is that War Dogs is based on true events...
something which makes it more cynical and disturbing. Miles Teller and
Jonah Hill make an excellent work as traders with temperaments which
are very different, but well balanced in order to flourish in the
unpredictable world of guns trafficking. War Dogs isn't strictly a
comedy. There are wide doses of humor, but beneath the laughs, there is
a serious anti-war manifest which doesn't only aim at denouncing war in
itself, but also the huge political and economic apparatus feeding from
the conflict... ie, the death and suffering of uncountable innocents.
That isn't a message traditionally expressed with lightness, but
co-screenwriters Phillips, Stephen Chin and Jason Smilovic make it work
in both the didactic and recreational levels. War Dogs undoubtedly
belongs to Teller and Hill, but the supporting cast also makes a
perfect work in their roles, highlighting Ana de Armas and the great
Kevin Pollak. Some people are comparing War Dogs to The Wolf of Wall
Street, but I found it more similar to The Big Short, which examined
the economic collapse of Wall Street. Both were made by directors
specialized in comedies, and despite dealing with serious themes, their
executions employed humor in order to make the hard truths they
revealed more accessible. I would consider War Dogs a bit inferior to
The Big Short, but it still deserves an enthusiastic recommendation as
a fascinating film which leaves us thinking for a long while after we
leave the cinema. Each person will know if they stay thinking "How is
it possible for things like that to happen?" or "How can I get into
that business?".
<|_=00=_|>
This film is definitely worth the watch. Jonah Hill and Myles Teller
both shine superbly in this film, and Bradley Cooper has some genuine
mystique about him during his performance. However, this is the second
film I have seen this year, that seems to try and recapture the
brilliance of Martin Scorcese's 'Wolf of wall street'. What I mean by
that is both this film and 'The Big Short' take a complex real life
event, that not a whole lot of people fully understood, and made a film
that took time to make light of the scenarios, and tried to explain
them to the audience in a common way. 

This film does it well, and beats 'The Big Short' as it was definitely
the easier film to follow. However, it does use a lot of comedy aspects
from 'Wold of Wall Street'. You compare Jonah Hill's character Efraim
to Donnie his character from TWOWS, they are exactly the same for the
first half of this movie. Also, this movie makes light of a very
serious real life scenario, and felt to safe considering the context.
It's to light hearted and the only real drama or tension comes from the
two friends. 

On it's own this film is highly re-watchable, and that's down to the
lightheartedness, but take a second to stop and think about the real
life story, it feels to lighthearted. With Wall Street it worked
because all the characters were terrible people, so it was funny to see
them mess up. Here, Myles Teller plays a very likable character, and
with some of the sinister characters, this film needed to feel more
threatening. 

However, credit is where credits due, the film did a great job of
breaking down how arms dealing works, the same way TWOWS did for stock
brokering. and the tone just felt fun, and made it easy to watch. To
use wrestling terms, the heel turn seemed a little off, and needed more
build, and also just the amount of similarities to TWOWS, from the way
they close it out, to Jonah Hill's performance, just the narration by
Teller, these films are almost parallel, so that holds this film back
from being truly great. 

But, the funny thing is, this film works. Hill's performance as both a
comedic and dramatic actor is fantastic, he balances the two so well.
If you haven't seen TWOWS, your going to love this move a hell of a
lot, while the film lacks the risks to make it an instant classic, and
is to lighthearted on the seriousness of this real life industry, its
still fun and re-watchable, and the script and how this film flows just
makes it enjoyable viewing. 

I know I have talked long about the lack of originality, but honestly
besides that and the lack of tone, or pushing the boundaries, the film
does its job well. Hill and Teller have great chemistry, and I could go
back and watch this over and over again. The effort to make people
aware of this event can not be faulted, and they made arms dealing and
the art of war a lot easier to understand that Big Short did for the
financial crisis in 08. The sinister tone to end it, was definitely a
tonal shift, but I won't spoil it for you here. I'm just going to say,
you will have fun, if you're a fan of TWOWS or similar films, or you
really enjoy Jonah Hill or Myles Teller, they deliver. I'm giving it a
4/5 stars. 

If it pushed the boundaries more, and had more originality I would have
given it a 4.5 which I only reserve for great movies. As it is though,
it's a re-watchable, fun, well acted, educational film. And you won't
even know you're being educated.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know enough about the original story to determine the accuracy
of Todd Phillips's "War Dogs", but it's an enjoyable movie. The tricks
pulled by David Packouz and Efraim Diveroli just go to show that the
people in the business of weapons have no principles (even violating
arms embargoes). They're out to make money by any means necessary. To
be certain, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq proved quite profitable
for weapons manufacturers. The mistake that Packouz and Diveroli made
was getting caught.

It's not a masterpiece, but it does a respectable job showing the
degrees to which these types go to enrich themselves. A very slimy
world indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pretty stoked to see War Dogs. Jonah Hill has been on a roll
lately and having an unconventional director like Todd Phillips telling
a story about 2 guys lucking into a giant contract to arm the U.S.
government was intriguing. I'm also a big fan of Lord of War, I think
it's really underrated (one of Nicolas Cage's best movies) and I was
excited to see a similar story. After having seen War Dogs, don't
expect something mind-blowing but it does have an interesting story to
tell.

*Minor Spoilers Ahead* David Packouz (Miles Teller) is working as a
massage therapist in Miami. He's working to try and start a family with
his girlfriend Iz (Ana de Armas) but he hasn't really found any purpose
in his life. He gets stoned and tries to get through his day and his
clients sexually harassing him. He also makes a stop as he's trying to
sell bed sheets on the side and its not going well. The next day he has
to go to a funeral for a friend and he runs into his best friend from
middle school Efraim Deveroli (Jonah Hill). The two were trouble makers
in their younger years and its implied that their parents separated
them against their will. Efraim is happy to see David and they catch up
a little bit. Efraim laughs at what David is doing and tells him he had
a falling out with his last business partner (his uncle) and he moved
back to Miami to set up shop for himself. He deals in small time
contracts supplying arms to the U.S. government. David is impressed but
is against the war. They go to score weed and when they get ripped off
Efraim pulls out an assault rifle from the trunk of his car. It
certainly causes the dealers to scatter and he invites David to his
office to explain his job to him a little better the next day.

The plot of this movie has a really interesting hook. AEY (the company
David and Efraim eventually form) finding contracts to fill that major
suppliers ignore and making bank off of them is fun to watch. Efraim
and David aren't completely incompetent but they're dishonest and they
don't understand their place in their industry. How they could appear
legitimate enough to be so seriously involved with Uncle Sam is
baffling. It's a so strange it's true story and they include some
interesting bits about how the U.S. government supplied their army in
the Iraq war. War Dogs doesn't have too many twists and turns that you
don't see coming but you'll find yourself wanting to know where David
and Efraim will go next. It's not as informative as The Big Short for
example but you do pick up some good nuggets along with following a
pretty engaging story.

I mentioned that Todd Phillips was a strange choice considering how
serious the material is. The trailers for War Dogs are misleading, the
movie is more of a drama than a comedy but I enjoyed it all the same.
It did have the sense of humour that Todd's movies tend to have (on the
dark side and sometimes vulgar). The movie was also a lot more stylish
than I expected it to be. It's well filmed and there was more effort
put into creating an attractive movie as opposed to just relying on the
material. The soundtrack was also good but it was a little on the nose
and they really blared it at points. It didn't make me mad but the lack
of subtlety with it was a little annoying.

Jonah Hill continues his recent run of excellent work. It's not my
favourite performance of his but he brings life to this movie and
although his character is a scumbag, he's the proficient one and how
he's able to navigate through his job is one of the big reasons War
Dogs works. Miles Teller is also good, he's playing the more normal of
the two characters and he's less in your face. Bradley Cooper really
does excellent work in the short amount of screen time he gets. He's
menacing and I was happy to watch him play a different part in this
movie. His character was more in the background and I liked that, any
other movie would have made him an over-the-top villain. He was an
appropriately ruthless businessman and it seemed more real. It was nice
to see Kevin Pollak again and I also liked Ana de Armas in her role,
she's definitely a supporting part and while she's not given a whole
lot of backstory, she's fine in her part.

Another small thing I liked with War Dogs is that the ending didn't go
the typical route. This is a rise and fall story and it looks like
you're going to get that same old ending. War Dogs sidesteps that and
instead of scolding David for doing what he did, they go for something
more open-ended. The moral of the story is that what they did was wrong
but instead of beating you over the head with it, they pose the
question that will David stick to his new found moral code when
presented with temptation? It was different and it upped the grade of
the movie for me.

I thought War Dogs was an interesting movie that did a good job
presenting the story of these 2 guys in a different way. It follows a
familiar arc and you can guess where the story is going to go but the
acting and the new angle it presents on arms dealers help compensate. I
still prefer Lord of War but this was a solid movie and a good way to
close out the summer movie season.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a message therapist who goes broke because
his business venture of selling luxury bed sheets does not work out. He
is recruited by his childhood friend to make big money by bidding on
military contracts.

"War Dogs" touches on a mysterious aspect of the world which is not
often talked about. Therefore, the story is already intriguing, and I
want to find out what happens to the two guys. What they do might seem
questionable to some, and their subsequent success gives much food for
thought. The ending makes you think and reflect on the fine line
between right and wrong; and how people can get caught up in their
successes. Another god aspect is that despite the subject matter, the
story manages to be funny yet still remains dramatic enough to be taken
seriously. I enjoyed watching it.
