
Diary Of A Wimpy Kid: Dog Days stars Greg Heffley, a middle schooler
who is just trying to have a fun summer, however his Summer plans are
different than most others, playing video games all day. Things get
complicated when his dad disagrees, a dog comes into the family, and
all sorts of trouble breaks loose.

When I first saw Diary Of A Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules, I was very
impressed, the film was great and it seemed like nothing could beat the
sequel, it was much better than the first film. But when I saw Dog Days
in the theaters I was amazed, it might have even been better. Loads of
times the audience in the theater was cracking up due to some hilarious
jokes. The actors did a great job, it's obvious Zachary and Robert have
grown skill when it comes to acting, as they are able to deliver their
lines well. The dad was probably my favorite character, his hilarious
reactions and timing is just hilarious.

The entire movie flowed well, no moments felt dry, and that can be a
big problem with some movies today. There will be spaces that just feel
empty and leave you to wait 5 minutes for something to happen. But the
2 Wimpy Kid sequels don't have that problem, they always leave
something going on. Now, from what I understand some people have called
this movie to be too "Childish". I really don't find that true, sure,
the books are aimed a little more for kids, as well as the movies. But
adults can find the movie just as enjoyable. Many adults in the
theaters were laughing along with the kids.

Overall, Diary Of A Wimpy Kid: Dog Days, is a great, fun, enjoyable
film for the family. I can't wait to see what the studio is going to do
next!
<|_=00=_|>
Looking to squeeze in some summer fun before heading back to school?
Then head to your local movie theater and see "Diary of a Wimpy Kid:
Dog Days." Our KIDS FIRST! Film Critic, Julianna No one (age 12)
reviews it below: 

This film is the third film in this popular series and is based on the
Diary of a Wimpy Kid books, which are written by Jeff Kinney. These
books are about the ups and downs of growing up and trying to deal with
school, family and relationships. The stories are so well written and
relatable, that you can't help but love the books and the movies. This
film stars Zachary Gordon, who does a great job once again as the main
character Greg Heffley, and Robert Capron, as his lovable friend Rowley
Jefferson. This films starts out with Greg and Rowley finishing the
school year and planning out their summer vacation. There's only one
problem, as usual for Greg, nothing goes as planned. Follow along as
Greg and Rowley try to make it through the dog days of summer. 

My favorite character is Greg because he is funny and means well even
when he makes mistakes and deep down, he just wants everyone to like
him. It is hard choosing one scene as my favorite, because most of the
scenes at the country club are absolutely hysterical, but I was able to
choose one. That's when Greg's older brother Roderick, played
brilliantly by Devon Bostick, tries to fake drowning to the pretty life
guard will save him. The problem is, she doesn't even notice him, so an
older, hairy man dives into the pool, pulls him out and performs mouth
to mouth on him. Roderick's facial expression is priceless and this
scene is just so funny, I could not stop laughing. 

Not only is this movie well written and very funny, but it has a really
strong cast that help bring to life the Heffley family and make this an
enjoyable film that the entire family can relate too and enjoy. The
movie also has a great message in it about growing up and learning from
your mistakes. 

Overall, I love this fabulous film and urge you to take your family and
go see this film today. I rate this film 5 out of 5 stars, as I think
this is a film your entire family will love as much as I do. Go see
this film, opening in theaters on August 3rd, trust me, you will love
it! And remember, a man who makes no mistakes, is a man who hasn't
learned anything. 

Reviewed by Julianna No one for KIDS FIRST!
<|_=00=_|>
We saw the "Diary of a Wimpy Kid, Dog Days movie" and my husband and I
absolutely loved it. The Wimpy Kid movies are John Hughes style movies
but focus on Jr. High School instead of High School. Believe me, Jr.
High School was much more difficult to survive than high school.

Jeff Kinney takes his story about a kid (Greg Heffley) trying to grow
up and survive middle school, family dynamics, and relationships. This
film, like the others, takes these experiences and makes them relatable
and hilarious for anyone of any age.

Although it is apparent that the cast is growing up, (since this is the
3rd movie in the very popular series), I found that it really didn't
matter because we relate to the issues and problems Greg is
experiencing and not his physical presence. No one said anything about
the Harry Potter kids getting older and the same holds for the Diary of
a Wimpy Kid. I didn't find myself focused on the kids ages because you
get lost in the laughs, and enjoyment of the film as the gags get
bigger and funnier in this 3rd installment to the popular movie series.
The kids are exactly at the place their supposed to be in real life -
14 years old. For us it added to the "realness" of the story and
characters portrayed.

I hope they make more of these films and continue on into High School,
as these stories and films are truly honest and bonified entertainment
for the whole family. They don't talk or play down to kids, they don't
moralize, they don't try to get you to "see the light" as other family
films do. If you allow yourself to lay back in the theater seat and let
go of yourself for 94 minutes, you will be transported back to a time
we can all relate to in our lives.

Zachary Gordon is back, in excellent form, as the main character, Greg
Heffley. This is a very complex character from Kinney's books and Zach
Gordon deserves a lot of credit for continuing to carry these movies to
new heights (no pun intended-see the ride on the Revolation which gets
up to 3-4 "G's"). It has actually been a lot of fun for our family,
following him as he matures in character and life. He is blossoming
into a really fine actor with a big future ahead of him. One of the
best things about this new movie is the relationship between his
character and his father played wonderfully by Steve Zahn. We get to
follow a very "real" father/son relationship in this film with all
their ups and downs and emotional discourse. This is a dose of
"reality" for anyone and is definitely a must see for any dad who has
sons or daughters and participated in the Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts,
Indian Guides, Indian Princess, or other father son/daughter activity.
Brought back a lot of good memories for us.

In this combination of the 3rd and 4th book - DWK: The Last Straw, and
DWK: Dog Days, the film makes for an enjoyable roller-coaster ride in a
comical "Summer" setting. The continued trials and tribulations of the
main character - Greg Heffley, are made even more hilarious and
complicated when Greg 1)fakes a job at a country club to appease his
father, 2) goes on vacation with his best friends family, the
Jeffersons, 3)tries to further a relationship with a girl- Holly Hills,
4)has to put up with constant aggravation from his older brother
Rodrick, and 5) experiences communication and relationship issues with
his dad. With all these intertwined story lines, this movie will have
you in "stitches". The scenes at the country club with his brother
Roderick are just plain hilarious and embarrassing fun! Not much ever
seems to go well for Greg, even when his best intentions are at stake,
which of course, makes for fun movie entertainment. If you like honest,
wholesome, non-animated, non-CG (3D) movies, then this ones a hit! For
you critical people out there - this movie is not intended to be "Gone
with the Wind", just good old fashioned film entertainment for the
whole family, that will sweep you away from the problems of today for a
moment in time. Sisters will relate, brothers will relate, and mom's
and dad's will get "teary eyed" over the in's and out's of Greg's
turbulent and very "real" relationship portrayed with his dad.

If you want to laugh out loud, if you want just great movie
entertainment with a connected and wonderful cast, especially the lead
character, Zach Gordon, then go see this, must see, movie! You won't be
disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
While The Diary of a Wimpy Kid books were a major hit, the movies never
really seemed to hit all that big, but surprisingly have been doing
just well enough under the radar to keep the series alive. The latest
entry Dog Days brings back all the favorites, combining the third and
fourth books in the series, but will it continue to deliver the fun of
these characters or will their age slowly start becoming a factor
finally close the book on the film series? Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog
Days follows Greg as he hatches a plan to win the girl of his dreams
during the summer, but as usual nothing is as simple as it seems for
Greg Heffley. There aren't too many films like this that can entertain
the adults just as much as the kids, but the Wimpy Kid series does just
that. The stories are pretty simple and light on content, but carry
just enough fun to keep everyone entertained. This latest entry works
really well having numerous laugh out loud moments. While still not
quite as entertaining as the first film in the series it does manage to
step things up to entertain more than the last film Roderick Rules. All
the original cast return and yes the kids are getting bigger, but
thanks to the age they starting making these films, everyone is still
believable in the grade they are mean to be in. There are a few
characters here and there that just aren't all that well acted, but you
somehow can let it go thanks to the fun you get with your leads. Sadly
there just aren't enough of fan favorites Fregley and Chirag.

If you're looking for that fun film to take the family too without
having to suffer through another cartoon or weird princess film, then
this is a must see. While it helps to see the other films just to know
the characters, you can pretty much watch this as a standalone film.
Turn off your brain and have some family fun. No word if another film
will becoming for this franchise, but there are still two other books
to work from, so we can only hope.

http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
<|_=00=_|>
We went to go see the new Diary of a Wimpy Kid Movie-Dog Days and were
pleasantly surprised as to how funny and entertaining it was. This is a
really good movie for anyone who likes to laugh. You can't help but
love this film because it will touch you on so many levels.

A very relatable story about growing up and family dynamics...this film
hit home in so many areas for my husband and I. The actor who played
the main character (Greg) in the movie- Zach Gordon -was just
wonderful, and so believable. He has a bright future in Hollywood. It
was hard not to root for him. Steve Zahn(who played Greg's dad) was
great also and so was Devon Bostik as Greg's older and tormenting
brother. There hasn't been a good, solid, fun movie like this one in a
long time.

This movie isn't just for kids. No matter how old you are you can't
help but enjoy this movie. I really recommend that if you like good,
fun film entertainment, without all the $200,000,000.00 dollar special
effects,hands down,this is, definitely, the "go to movie"!
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of the first 2 movies, you'll probably like this one,
but somehow, the word "hilarity" doesn't much apply this time around.
Maybe it's because Greg has gotten a little older, or maybe the scope
of the movie is bigger, or maybe it's because Greg's family aren't seen
much this time. Or maybe it's because nothing in Greg's life this time
around seems to be truly at stake. Whatever the reason, the movie is
slightly less funny. But the movie does have some interesting ideas, so
I guess it's still worth the ticket price. Just don't keep your hopes
up high, at least not in the laughs department.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Diary of a Wimpy Kid is back with a third installment and this one was
cute just like the others. I thought it was pretty funny. Greg is out
of school for the summer. Of course he's after Holly Hollis and gets to
go the country club with best buddy, Rowley, and learns that Holly is
working there this summer. So, he wants to go every day and lies about
a job. To keep the secret, he has to let Rodrick in. So lots of funny
parts with them sneaking in, ordering way to much, thinking it's free.
Other funny parts, Holly's sister's birthday party with Loaded Diaper,
the I love you because with Rowley's family, the pot roast and the dog.

FINAL VERDICT: Worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one franchise that continues to tickle my funny bone, without
trying too hard. The third in the film series, I hope that it continues
to tap onto the series of books by Jeff Kinney - seven in total as of
now - before the principal cast members get fully grown up and aren't
kids any more. For those who have yet to experience this simple, yet
effective kids comedy, perhaps it is time to jump right in, and
experience just what the appeal is.

The story leaves school for a bit, and is set during summer vacation,
where every kid has plans of their own which may, and most likely,
differ from their parents' expectations on how best to spend time. For
Greg (Zachary Gordon) the main protagonist, it means a summer that's
filled with endless computer gaming, which dad Frank (Steve Zahn)
completely disapproves of, preferring that he hit the big outdoors in
wilderness camp, or to take up a job somewhere to build some sense of
responsibility. Then there is his crush Holly (Peyton List), who spends
her time coaching junior tennis at a country club, with the only way in
is as a guest of his best friend Rowley Jefferson (Robert Capron),
although Rowley's family, especially his dad (Alf Humphreys), isn't
really too fond of the friend of their son. And to add to that, Greg's
brother Rodrick (Devon Bostick) threatens to expose Greg's cover for
visiting the country club unless he gets invited himself to enjoy the
facilities and to gawk at Holly's sister Heather (Melissa Roxburgh),
and a new canine addition to the family.

Dog Days is pretty loaded, but these little episodes all shine in their
own right, and made the entire film work. Directed by David Bowyers,
who was also at the helm of the previous film, Dog Days the film taps
from scenes in both The Last Straw and Dog Days books and is set
primarily during vacation, which means a little bit of a pity when we
don't get to see the other zany supporting characters that much,
especially Greg's other schoolmates who are off to do their own thing,
sporadically appearing only if they happen to be attending the same
event from wilderness camp, to a book reading club started by Greg's
mom. The focus gets centered mostly on family, be it Greg's or
Rowley's, and takes a closer look at the father-son relationship in
Greg and Frank, with the spectre of boarding school looming on the
horizon should Frank decide to let someone else play the responsible
role of bringing up useful folks to society.

While some may opine that Dog Days doesn't offer too much as compared
to the previous Wimpy Kid films, I thought that formed part of its
strength in having the cast being already so comfortable and familiar
in their role, there's really no need to have them doing something too
spectacular for the sake of. I mean, it's like friends hanging out,
where one can have a good time all due to the presence of the other,
and that's sufficient. But there's danger at being just sufficient,
because familiarity may breed complacency, although the source material
should be rich enough, or perhaps like this one having two books fuel a
single film, for another film outing. At least it's not artificially
expanded with the filmmaker's own imagination to stuff another film for
additional box office revenue.

With nary a swear word nor embarrassing scenes which you have to
explain to your kids thereafter, Diary of the Wimpy Kid continues to be
a family and kid friendly outing that grows on you. It's funny without
the reliance of the more adult comedy route of having to continuously
swear or rely on nudity or slapstick to draw out laughter. Bring a kid
to the screening, and I'm pretty sure they'll be entertained and
tickled pink.
<|_=00=_|>
If the original Wimpy Kid excelled because of the misfortunes of its
main character, then "Dog Days" satisfies by leaning ever harder into
that. One of my quibbles with this movie series is that Greg Heffley is
more of a jerk than just hapless, but the writers make up for it with
the level of misadventures.

It's funnier than the original because his dad has ore involvement;
which means more Steve Zahn, who really runs with it. The guy's a
scream.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Probably the worst diary of a wimpy kid movie. Omg. This is just
terrible. Rowley's hair?? ITS SO OBVIOUS IT'S A WIG. OMG. And Zach
Gordon was like... 15??? He was entering 8th grade In real life. I hate
this movie. How does this movie have good ratings? 6.4/10???? 1/2 STAR.
Would Not recommend
