
Not an easy movie to watch. Scott Walker has made a very gruesome,
realistic, deeply disturbing (at times) work that shows the rotten
depths of a psychopath's mind (John Cusack, a real gem of the film),
and his main antagonist, a National Guard officer (Nicolas Cage, by the
way, a very decent play here). Then, there is a young lady involved in
wild world of pimps, drugs and alcohol, and she plays a key role here,
too. The plot is very straight and often blood-chilling, and the twists
of plot can really mesmerize. In fact, the movie was a bit slow
sometimes, but nobody in the audience left the theater, 'cause it was
real thrilling. The spellbinding Alaskan nature is a real must see
here, it simply leaves speechless with its sheer vastness and beauty.
Great job of cameramen, though. The story is clear from the trailers
and here the whole plot untwists slowly for almost 2 hours, but this is
quite good, as the movie never drags. Constant Alaskan snow adds up to
the growing suspense. The film is not the masterpiece but worth
watching and very strong as a message. Great ending, by all means
<|_=00=_|>
This film hasn't received a lot of press or a wide distribution. Sadly,
that's probably due to Nic Cage, which is a shame. First, he's very
subdued and focused (there's no wild-man Nicholas Cage in this movie).
In fact, he plays a deeply decent, dedicated Alaska State Trooper who
becomes convinced that a serial killer (also very well played by a
creepy John Cusack) is stalking women in Anchorage. The film downplays
the gore, while showing the seedy and soul-crushing underworld where
Cusack finds his victims. A very nice bonus is that almost all of the
police officers shown in the film are hard-working people who want to
catch this killer, but know they have to work within the law to ensure
he doesn't escape them in the courts. Vanessa Hudgins turns in a very
nice performance as one victim who escaped and was instrumental in
identifying the killer. The director does a fine job of capturing the
ghostly silences of the frozen north, where so many of the man's
victims were buried. All in all, a fine, atmospheric film that is both
thrilling and sad. Well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Was concerned Nick Cage would be the Nick Cage of late, but it was a
nice surprise as he was absolutely fantastic. He really carried this
movie and should be given the credit he deserves.

Vanessa Hudgens portrayal was very good knowing her previous films were
mostly comedic. She made me believe she was her character.

Was hoping not to find out who the killer was until later, but as the
movie played out, it suited the arrogance of Hansen. Thought Cusack did
an adequate job with the material presented.

The score was very dramatic and added to the feeling of the moment.
Loved the outdoor wilderness scenes as they were mostly well shot, but
the inside shots were framed too tight, but that was the style the
cinematographer decided on , so it's a matter of opinion or budget.

Overall I liked the movie and would rate this as above average. Well
done Nick.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been interested in serial killers for some time now and I am
familiar with the real story upon which the movie is based. 

Although Cage and Cusack have starred in some sub par movies over the
last few years, they are both quite talented and give excellent
performances in this effort. However, the real star of the film,
perhaps somewhat surprisingly, is Hudgens, who makes her character look
very real and believable. 

Although the plot has been heavily misused in other films in the past
and is not in itself very original, this is not your typical serial-
killer movie. The movie manages to be compelling without going over the
top with too much gory details. The atmosphere it creates is very
authentic - it really takes you back 30 years ago in Alaska, when these
gruesome events unfolded.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a decent movie, which ironically would best be viewed on the
big screen given the visually arresting shots of the Alaskan landscape
except that it had a very tiny release on the big screen, and has most
certainly been seen more on-demand and now through the DVD format. In
case a viewer of "The Frozen Ground" is left unsatisfied with the
necessary compression of events, composite characters, etc. that are
necessary to produce a movie of less than two hours in length, and want
to learn more about the Hansen case that inspired the movie one could
do worse then read "Fair Game" (http://tinyurl.com/mqssp5z) by Bernard
DuClos that was recently republished. Reading it as a companion to the

movie will help the viewer of "The Frozen Ground" realize the liberties
that were inevitably taken to make it suitable for the silver screen as
well as understand elements of Hansen's life and killing spree that the
picture did not have time to delve into such as more of Hansen's
background (which early on indicated a propensity toward crime) and the
back story of the whole oil pipeline boom that produced the mafia
controlled prostitution/strip bar scene that Hudgen's character is
entangled in.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on actual events, The Frozen Ground follows an Alaska State
Trooper Jack Halcombe (Nicolas Cage), who is on the trail of trying to
catch Robert Hansen (John Cusack), a serial killer known for murdering
young women. When Cindy Paulson (Vanessa Hudgens), one of Hansen's
captures, escapes Halcombe enlists her to try and help him convict
Hansen. Together, the two must help bring down Hansen before more
victims are claimed and before tries to come back after Cindy.

After having quite a few bombs in the past couple of years, Nicolas
Cage finally manages deliver. Cage does an excellent job in the role of
Jack Halcombe. As the case progresses, you can sense the determination
to catch the killer, as well as his need to protect Cindy, through his
performance. John Cusack also delivers in a role that's very different
for him as the serial killer Robert Hansen. Every time Cusack is on
screen, you can hardly believe this is him. He plays the role with a
high amount of creepiness that's impressive considering it's such a
different role for him. But most impressive is Vanessa Hudgens as
Cindy. In the past, Hudgens has delivered performances ranging from
weak to mediocre. In The Frozen Ground, she nails the role of the young
girl trying to be strong, but is so terrified that this mad man will
come after her again. By doing this, you really feel for her character.
Fun Fact: The real Cindy Paulson actually contributed to the film by
telling the events of the story. As far as the film goes, it's a very
intense crime thriller that hooks you all the way through. While some
parts of the film play off as if it was a Law & Order episode, it still
keeps the viewer drawn in as the tension builds. The gloomy setting of
the film also contributes to it. The Frozen Ground is the comeback that
Nicolas Cage very much needed, and the opportunity for Hudgens to show
what she really has to offer.

My rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
An authentic thrilling atmosphere, a solid cast and script, a true
story based movie. I need no more for entertainment. This is not a
documentary and is not intended to be. The movie doesn't investigate
the serial killer relationships, the background, nor try to explain the
exceptional investigating work of the police. Most of the negative
reviews I have read point on these shortcomings, but this is simply a
thriller and it does what it has to do: it thrills you, from the
beginning to the end. Considering what is being proposed usually as
thriller, this is worth to be watched and it is entertaining. Is it a
masterpiece? No. Is it a good movie? Yes.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1993, in Anchorage, Alaska, the young prostitute Cindy Paulson
(Vanessa Hudgens) is found cuffed in her apartment and she claims that
she has been rapped and threatened by Robert "Bob" Hansen (John
Cusack), a citizen married with children. The police officers do not
believe on her words and Cindy returns to the streets and Bob is not
accused.

Meanwhile Sergeant Jack Halcombe (Nicolas Cage) is assigned to
investigate the murder of seven young women and the detective that
found Cindy secretly sends her case to him. Jack believes that Bob is
the serial-killer but he has no evidences to arrest him. Jack tries to
earn Cindy's trust to send Bob to the court but she is afraid and tries
to leave Alaska. 

"The Frozen Ground' is a great and effective old-fashioned thriller
that is supported in performances and not in explosions, car chases or
special effects. Based on true events, the plot succeeds in keeping the
attention of the viewer, despite the killer's identity be disclosed in
the beginning. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Sangue no Gelo" ("Blood on the Ice")
<|_=00=_|>
Based on actual events, an Alaskan State Trooper tracks down a serial
rapist and murder, Robert Hansen who manages to avoid justice for over
a decade. 

With Nicholas Cage, John Cusack and Vanessa Hudgens, Director Scott
Walker has a heavy weight line up to help bring the events to life.
While the wintry backdrop and cinematography illustrate a chilling
environment, the story somewhat lacks bite. Oscar winner, Cage delivers
an acceptable performance while Cusack, who dons the more challenging
serial killer hat, makes an admirable effort. The standout performance
is of Vanessa Hudgens who portrays a teenage prostitute that managed to
escape Hansen's clutches. 

The Frozen Ground is an interesting film and worth watching if you're
in the mood for a thrilling bio-drama however it won't win any awards
and certainly won't be a part of your 'must see' collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying I'm am a huge nic cage fan,always have been.Ill
be the first to say hes made some bad movies that would have been
unwatchable if he wasn't in them. Now this movie is not exceptional and
is nowhere near cages best role,but it is his moss subtle.He plays his
character well and so does Cusack.Hudgens who I've never really seen
much off plays her part in this movie quite well. Nothing new here just
a good old fashion good guy bad guy collect evidence movie. I recommend
this movie to fans of cage and especially to fans of Cusack who plays a
great villain.

7 outta you know what.Give it ago has a great ending imho.
