
Whenever I see a movie that I get really excited about, I seek out
reviews from professional critics and fellow fans. Often times they
will point out things that I may not have noticed and it's exciting to
feel connected to someone through art. When I find lots of negative
reviews I begin to feel a sort of let down. I wonder if my opinion was
"wrong", or why I'm the only one who liked it. Keep in mind; I'm an
18-year-old girl, so I have not yet grown out of such thoughts. I am
also not an authority on film. Everything I know, I learnt from reading
Roger Ebert and watching lots and lots of movies. However, this movie
really stuck with me. I saw it 2 days ago and I still can't stop
thinking about it. I decided to take a page out of Ebert's book and
explain why I loved it (instead of just saying "it's awesome"). Here's
why: 1. The Children: I'm a sucker for kids in movies, especially when
they actually get to act like kids. The 1-year-old Lily and 3-year-old
Victoria are so beautiful that they tug at your heartstrings without
even trying. They were well cast. 6-year old Lily and 8-year-old
Victoria were truly phenomenal little actresses. Megan Charpentier
(already a seasoned veteran with previous credits including Jennifer's
Body, Red Riding Hood, and Resident Evil: Retribution) handles this
heavy subject matter with maturity and poise. She manages to balance
innocence with experience. She has been traumatized by her past, maybe
her heart is a little harder than the average 8-year-old (if it wasn't,
she wouldn't have survived all that time), but we still get glimpses of
the little girl who just wants a mommy. Isabelle Nélisse is (in my
opinion) genius as little Lily. I think CGI must have been used to make
her movements appear more animalistic, but a child of her age
maintaining such seriousness is riveting to watch. When she plays with
her toys, it's like watching an actual feral child in a documentary (I
repeat, it is LIKE watching a feral child, not IDENTICAL to).

2. The "Parents": Jessica Chastain and Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau as the
uncle (and uncle's girlfriend) of the little girls are very well cast.
I was a bit sceptical of Jessica Chastain's "rocker chick" look, but
she brings such life and courage to her character that you actually see
her as a bass player, instead of a classically beautiful Hollywood star
trying to look like a bass player. I had never heard of Nikolaj
Coaster-Waldau before this film. I love how much he loves the girls.
His caring for them is so sincere and honest. You truly believe that he
is the kind of guy who would spend 5 years (and money he doesn't have)
on the hope that his nieces might still be alive. He is a loving father
figure who doesn't get as much time with the girls as her should (in my
humble opinion).

3. Mama: The demon/spirit/ghost/entity/whatchamacallit of Mama was
created using CGI and a very tall, thin actor. Many audience members
laughed when Mama first came in to full view. I agree that she looked a
little funny. Her hair was really weird and anti-gravity (like Mama in
the short film) and her face was oddly asymmetrical. However, I think
that she was perfect. Just the right amount of creepy and sad. This is
one of the only horror movies in existence that causes the audience to
feel real sympathy for the evil villain.

4. The Director: I admire Andrés Muschietti for taking so many risks.
It is rare to find a filmmaker today who will go against what the
audience may want. He didn't use any fake scares; the situation was
scary enough on its own. There are brilliant moments of natural humour
that were so refreshing. He did not mock his characters or the
situation, but he found the string of comedy that was there already and
used it to his advantage. How many times have you been having a
miserable day, and then just stopped and started laughing about how
everything went wrong? That is the humour of Mama.

5. The Story: Part of the reason that I love horror movies is that they
aren't bound by the usual visionary constraints of, say, Italian
neo-realism films. Tragic stories are exciting and implausible all at
the same time. I think that this was a very original take on a story of
mother-daughter bonding. Of course there's no such thing as a
"completely original story", but there is such thing as a completely
original vision. The story affected me very deeply. I'm still trying to
come to terms with how it ended.

6. Using Clichés Effectively: There are a lot of clichés involved in
making a horror film. There are only so many ways to introduce the plot
line of a supernatural being. This genre requires stock characters, and
they do their jobs well. They use some of my favourite scare tactics
(using a camera as a light source, unexpected appearances by the
entity, etc...). Those particular clichés are necessary. Would you
really want to see a Jim Carrey comedy where he uses dry humour and no
body language? Or a Baz Luhrman film with dull colours and understated
characters? Clichés are not always a bad thing.

This is why I loved this film. Agree or disagree, but you can't say I
didn't think it through.

Take care, -Hannah
<|_=00=_|>
The title may be tacky, but this Canadian-Spanish co-production, with
Guillermo del Toro lending his name as producer, is one of the better
horror films to have come out from the West in recent years, despite
being filled with the usual clichés, actually contain a proper story,
and delivered really well in terms of chills, thrills and everything
that's necessary to creep you out and make you jump at your seat.
Co-written and directed by Andres Muschietti, Mama shows how it boils
down to story, building upon his short film of the same name some 5
years ago, and a solid cast to gloss over the expected bag of tricks.

Many of the clichés were put to good effect, which in some ways you'd
come to expect certain things to happen in a certain way, and they did.
While it may be blunted in terms of anticipation and build up, it
didn't shy away from delivering that sucker punch when required, and
kept good work in framing and editing for maximum impact when the
moment called for the unabashed dip into tried and tested elements. One
thing you'll note is how assured Muschietti's direction is, as if doing
it all for the very first time, with the aim of wanting to stir up its
scares really well. Liberal use of CG also helped, but never done in
slip-shoddy fashion, which added a layer of positive production values
to the film.

I mean, there's creepy children, a ghoul that gate-crashes a reunion of
sorts, and the usual spooky house no thanks to noises during strange
timings, and the rote blinking of lights. All ingredients that you've
seen utilized to the death in various horror film productions, but
coming together really well in Mama, playing to the strengths of these
elements while fiercely ignoring the negativity associated with lazier
filmmakers who just slap these elements together, expecting them to
work. It's not a special effects extravaganza when it's not required,
and Mama showed just how its story and characters were allowed to lead,
rather than to have strangely illogical moments, even for a horror
film, fall coincidentally into place.

Jessica Chastain may be the latest IT girl in Hollywood, and it's
encouraging to note she's really going all out to take on various roles
in different genres, despite her more recent art house leanings of
late. Here, she's the quintessential scream queen, albeit only just,
given her role of Annabel being a rock star wannabe, sporting almost
full body tattoos that betray a rather soft demeanour, when her
maternal instincts get called upon to look after the nieces of her
boyfriend Lucas (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau). They were found after having
disappeared for five years, which the opening sequence and credits
would have pointed to an unnatural upbringing under the hands of the
titular Mama ghoul. Battling for custody, it is with reluctance that
the couple take the children under their wing, probably because Annabel
knows she'll eventually be dumped with the kids, which did happen.

And the entire middle act is when the fun begins, for fans of horror
films forking out good money to be entertained with the roller coaster
ride of scares. Muschietti and his story collaborators Neil Cross and
Barbara Muschietti managed to keep an entire back story up their
sleeves, to reveal them in teasing fashion, which worked to keep you
engaged throughout. And credit must go to Muschietti and his DP Antonio
Riestra for having framed the initial introduction to the ghoulish
elements that went for maximum WTF surprises, especially with sleight
of hand techniques that didn't jar the narrative, nor relied on the
necessity of a jump cut edit to hammer home its creepier moments. It
grows, slowly, and that's one master stroke Mama had that worked
wonders.

This is the second film in a row that had its child actors provide top
notch performances. Megan Charpentier and Isabelle Nelisse play
sisters, who with the aid of CG move around complete with unnatural
mannerisms, having it in term to creep you out, before having to
develop their characters into emotional cores that added a lot more
depth to this film as it steamrolls its way to the finale. Andres
Muschietti is the name to watch now for taking something that's
expected to be cliché in a horror film, but fulfilled more than you'd
bargain for. A definite recommend!
<|_=00=_|>
"MAMA", a film executively produced by Del Toro follows the story of
two little girls that are found in the wilderness for five years. They
are then adopted by their Uncle Luke (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) and his
girlfriend Annabel (Jessica Chastain)and right off the bat, strange
things start happening. While trapped in the woods, Victoria (Megan
Charpentier)and Lily (Isabelle Nelisse) formed a guardian to protect
and care for them, who they call Mama.

This is an excellent movie. Be warned that it does remain dependant on
jump scares to scare you, but they are what I like to call "true jump
scares". Not a cat bursting out of a corner, or a shoe falling from the
sky. "Mama" utilizes CGI by creating dark, disturbing images along with
a tense orchestral sound track to scare your pants off. The acting was
also superb, particularly Jessica Chastain and Megan Charpentier.
Isabelle was solid also, but I had a feeling that before every take,
she was told what to do, but Megan was old enough to understand the
script and story. Something that really impressed me was how the story
unfolded, and how beautifully the mother daughter relationship was
portrayed. The cinematography was also one of the most beautiful jobs
I've ever seen on a horror film. Camera work was steady and the dolly
shots were smooth and suspenseful. Overall, Mama was a terrifying
horror movie with a beautiful story and wonderful camera work. I hope
this movie is recognized as a classic for years to come. This movie
also proves that PG-13 horror movies can be scary after all. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film with high expectations. I am a horror movie
junkie, despite their general lack of critical acclaim. They should be
entertaining, even if they don't give you nightmares. After first
viewing the trailer over the summer (rolling in for The Possession), I
eagerly anticipated the January release. Seeing that Guillermo del
Toro's name was attached to the project made me even more giddy. I saw
it opening night.

I was not disappointed. Not in the slightest. In fact, I was happier
with the movie than I intended to be. Believe me, that's saying
something.

Not one scared by stories themselves, but solely by moments that
utilize the element of surprise, I have never jumped out of my skin
more times during a single film than I did for "Mama." That pretty much
makes it the scariest movie that I have ever seen. However, seeing as
different things scare different people, that is most likely not the
same for everyone. If you aren't a jumper, don't worry, it's still very
much worth it.

The story is not your typical ghost story. It has a terrific exposition
to settle you into the film's focus. The situation is solitary enough
that you won't yourself experience it, but isn't so far-fetched that
it's unbelievable. The characters are both likable and flawed, which
gives them dimension and makes them more interesting. And the girls are
adorable, but not so cute that it detracts from the terror. As you can
see, the film is very much balanced. A good film needs that balance.

As far as scares go, some are quite subtle. A few you don't
particularly realize are happening until something changes, and you're
caught off-guard. Seeing that the premise is supernatural, the idea of
an elusive antagonist is key. You can't see too much of what you're
supposed to be afraid of, and for the majority of the movie, you don't.
The cloud of mystery surrounding Mama herself is hauntingly beautiful,
and will both demonize and delight you. By the time you finish it, you
will most likely feel both happy and sad, and will not know where your
emotions should be.

I highly recommend "Mama" to anyone, because it is not your
stereotypical horror movie. Its distinct lack of gore, and high level
of well-crafted story, makes for an exciting experience for both horror
lovers, and those who don't necessarily appreciate the genre. If you
get the chance to watch it, take it immediately. If you aren't given
the chance to watch it, make the chance yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
¨A ghost is an emotion bent out of shape, condemned to repeat itself
time and time again.¨

Another South American director has made his splash on Hollywood after
the successful debut of Mama in theaters this year. Argentinean
director, Andres Muschietti, made over 70 million dollars in the box
office and received decent reviews for this horror/suspense film based
on a short 3 minute movie he directed in 2008. That short film garnered
the attention of movie executives such as Guillermo Del Toro who
decided to produce and present this film. The fact that Del Toro's name
was used here and that the coveted Jessica Chastain signed on to play
the main character gave Muschietti the tremendous possibility of
debuting on a high note. The formula worked pretty well because critics
and audiences seemed to enjoy this film alike, and we could be heading
to the start of a new horror franchise. I enjoyed most of the movie,
and loved Jessica Chastain's performance, but the ending just ruined
the entire film for me. It is kind of the same problem pretty much
every ghost story film has. I feel like most of the endings in this
genre are pretty unsatisfying and ruin the entire suspense the film has
been building throughout the story. There is no denying that Japanese
films have heavily influenced the genre with films such as The Ring,
The Grudge, Dark Water, and One Missed Call which have all been remade,
but the truth of the matter is the only film that really worked with
critics was The Ring. They have tried to imitate its success, but I
haven't been scared like I was with The Ring, which had a pretty
satisfying ending compared to the rest. I do prefer this type of
psychological horror more than the gory slasher films, but I find it
troubling that they can't find a satisfying ending. My favorites in
this genre will always be the first two I saw: Zemeckis's What Lies
Beneath and The Ring. The rest have all fallen short. Mama was close to
achieving that similar success in my opinion, but the ending really
hurt it.

The film centers around two girls named Lilly (Isabelle Nelisse) and
Victoria (Megan Charpentier) who are abandoned in a cabin in the middle
of the woods after their father murdered their mother and was attacked
by some presence inside the cabin. Five years later the search finally
pays off and their Uncle Lucas (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) finds them. To
everyone's surprise the two girls have managed to survive on their own,
but they live like animals crawling around the floor and talking to
walls. Lucas and his girlfriend, Annabel (Jessica Chastain) decide to
raise the kids with the help of Dr. Dreyfuss (Daniel Kash) who
continues to treat the girls in order for them to make the transition
from their isolated lives to a normal and nurturing family life.
Annabel soon discovers that these girls might have never been on their
own and that somehow the presence that was with them in the cabin might
be in their home as well. Several suspenseful and horrifying events
begin to take place while the girls continue to talk to shadows in the
walls and call out for Mama.

The film has several thrills and suspenseful moments with a great
performance from Jessica Chastain. It was good to see her try out a
different role and she proves she can do about everything. It's hard to
find good performances in horror films, but this may be one of the
best. The movie also has its weaknesses like pretty much all horror
films do considering the protagonists always seem to make stupid
decisions, but that is what makes the genre so entertaining at times.
They are clichés which we have learned to accept. The two girls were
also surprisingly good, they had strong performances as well. I really
enjoyed everything about the movie up to the last 15 minutes which
pretty much ruined everything. Psychological thrillers usually have
this impact: they begin with a lot of promise but end up on the wrong
note, and that is exactly how I felt about Mama along with Sinister, a
similar movie I got to see a few months ago. The film is above average
thanks to Jessica Chastain, and Guillermo Del Toro's influence in the
production of the movie, but that is about it. 

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Horror has been one of the least appreciated film genres nowadays for
relying nothing more than the excessive amount of violence and
repetitive jump scares, plodding the storytelling by its completely
lifeless characters who are ready to get killed. Mama is something else
however it still has those horror movie clichés, like those easy loud
jump scares and some ghostly pathos, but there is a fascinating concept
behind the scares that leaves the audience a beautiful story than just
a cheap horror shock. It also has a set of strong performances and
solid production. It could have been much genuine in being scary than
simply loud but Mama is still one of the great horror films we got in a
while.

Unlike most modern horror films, this movie's ambition is to tell a
compelling story. Obviously there is a hidden emotion beneath the
concept, but before we get to that, it explores around the characters
and the gloomy atmosphere. Rather than throwing a horrific death scene
to show fear, it scatters some symbolic objects that indicate the
presence of the titular monster. It's a fascinating trick of
manifesting its mysteries and fear. What defy the odds of the genre are
the characters. They are not only ought to get scared. This is a rare
set of modern horror characters that possesses a genuine soul. The
performances handle them terrifically. There is a lot of remarkable
performance to talk about but anyway. It's not only about the scares.
It finely balances the drama to the darkness of the story. Personally,
it's kind of more interesting when it simply tells the story of the two
kids and the Mama ghost even though it features a horror cliché of
ghosts telling their past to the central character. In the end, we'll
realize the film actually offers more to the picture.

The only largest misstep they had is the excessive amount of loud jump
scares. Though, they can be effective at some point. They still used
some other ways of scaring the audience, like mimicking the clever
horror trick of "The Orphanage" and letting the character be alone
exploring the creepiness going on. It could have lingered on those
parts to feel the danger of the characters, but instead they
immediately send off a loud jump scare because it works to everyone.
The film uses some CGI which made the monsters look a bit awkward but
they are decent enough. Everything looks great in general. The
cinematography and the production are a total pay off. It's just
beautiful to look at.

Mama turns out to be pretty good. At glance, it doesn't look like the
kind of horror film we usually thought about but furthermore we get to
realize it is beyond than we should expect. The clichés still exists
but they are used in a better way. Putting aside those cheap scares,
it's a refreshing story that is indeed worth telling. It's still far
from classic but it is also far from generic and annoying like most
horror films we get these days. The performances and the filmmaking
give more to the experience. Mama is the kind of horror film that
abandons the gruesome acts and rather shows its dark aspects in a quite
endearing way.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this movie and the concept for it was original. I think
this film makes the viewer think about what the characteristics are of
being a mother. What sort of instincts we as woman can display and what
kind of connections can be made with a child, even if you're a
terrifying ghost.

Del Toro will always put his name on a good thriller surrounding small
children. This movie had all the thrills of a scary movie and the
elements fright used in the film had everyone in my theater on the edge
of the seat. The movie waist no time getting into the meat of the
story.

There are flaws in the film and it does have to do with plot holes. The
director could have worked these holes out with other writers......like
Del Toro perhaps. The back story had the hugest gap of all.

Regardless, it was better than 'Don't be Afraid of the Dark', and I
will be seeing this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of horror but recently i cant remember a movie which i
enjoyed to my heart but then i saw MAMA and it was like a fresh air
which u asked from a long long time. What makes MAMA special and
different is it's Story and Acting.Not many horror movies has it now a
days but MAMA has it all..a beautiful and emotional film with great
horror elements to back it.The performance from Jessica Chastain is
mind blowing.when the movie starts I didn't seem to connect with her
character but as soon as the movie progressed she just blown my mind
with her screen presence and screen fit performance.few places r just
brilliant like the one where she finds lily outside of the house and
she brings her in but Lily tries to escape but the she holds he tight
and make her feel that she loves her from within and Lily starts
looking at her with innocence and Jessica hold her hands blow air on
them and ask Lily that "dose she liked it"..it moved me and i was just
speechless watching it.Just little more detailing would have turned it
into a classic for life.but never then less its one of the finest
horror film I watched in decades.

Highly recommended.Loved it!
<|_=00=_|>
Mama is directed by Andres Muschietti and written by Muschietti,
Barbara Muschietti and Neil Cross. It stars Jessica Chastain, Nikolaj
Coaster-Waldau, Megan Charpentier, Isabelle Nelisse, Daniel Kash,
Javier Botet and Jane Moffat. Music is by Fernando Velazquez and
cinematography by Antonio Riestra.

A Suicidal father abducts his two young daughters and takes them to a
cabin out in the woods, his intention is to kill them. Before he can
enact his plan he is killed by a strange entity, leaving the two girls
alone in the cabin. Years later the girls are discovered in the cabin,
completely feral and when any sense can finally be made out of them,
they talk of being looked after by someone they call Mama; And it seems
Mama has come back with them to civilisation

Based on his own 2008 Argentinian short of the same name, Andres
Muschietti expands the idea out to a full length feature film. With
pretty decent results as well. Pic is a supernatural fairytale, thick
on ethereal atmosphere and not over reliant on boo jumps or an
adherence to blood and guts spilling just to put bums on seats. From
the moment the girls are found, scampering around the wood cabin on all
fours, clearly having survived on cherries for five years, there's an
uneasy feel to the story. We already know there is a spirit involved as
we half glimpsed "Mama" during the pre-credits sequence, what we need
now is a good story and a healthy quota of frights and peril for Waldau
and Chastain as they become surrogate parents to the troubled
youngsters; And again, Mama mostly delivers all that is required of it
for a good night in by the fire whilst perched on the edge of your
seat.

Chastain is excellent as the punk rock chick reluctantly mothering two
children before her time, the two girls, Charpentier and Nelisse, are
also top draw, exuding the sadness and confusion that children of that
age would obviously be feeling under these circumstances. While their
reactions to what we ourselves can't see, via glances or hushed
exchanges, has a creepiness to it that delivers a bucket load of dread.
Muschietti's direction is very stylish, not only does he marshal his
principal cast members with great skill, he shows some ingenuity in
scene staging with one sequence particularly brilliant as Chastain does
housework and the younger of the girls plays with Mama in the bedroom,
we know it, even though we can only see the wee bairn. The soundtrack
and score is suitably screechy, and the cinematography by Riestra has
Gothic tints to it.

Why Mama is not a bona fide entry in the upper echelons of horror is
mainly due to an annoying mistake that so many horror genre film makers
make, namely showing too much of the spook. There is a point around the
hour mark where "Mama" herself just stops being scary, a shame because
the effects work isn't half bad. There's other, less itchy problems,
such as Waldau being reduced to a bit player from the mid-point, a
sub-plot involving Kash's Dr. Dreyfuss just feels like set-up material,
while the ending is sure to be a bit too WTF for some. That said, this
is good genre cinema for those who like The Woman in Black type of
thrills and story telling. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
When sisters Lily and Victoria are left in the woods after a series of
horrific events leaves them orphaned, how would they survive for the
next five years until they are eventually rescued? Have no fear, Mama
is here. The debut feature from Spanish director Andres Muschietti has
some plot hole, but still delivers the goods in a scary, almost
poignant way.

In Mama, there are similarities to the American version of The Ring in
the way some of the scenes are shot in that grainy, static, antiquated,
black and white style. Horror/ghost film fans might think parts of the
film are clichéd and they would be correct. However, the two sisters in
the film (played by Megan Charpentier and Isabelle Nelisse) make for
interesting viewing. As Victoria and Lilly, the two are feral creatures
having lived in the wild the bulk of their lives. Even after being
taken in by their uncle (Game Of Thrones' Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau, Lilly
still prefers to run around on all fours, eat with her hands while on
the floor, and sleep under her bed. Her speech is relegated to growls
and grunts with a few words mixed in. Her big sister, Victoria has a
faster time assimilating to the civilized world. She even begins to
cozy up to her uncle's punk rock girlfriend Annabel (Jessica Chastain).

What makes Mama work is the relationship between the female characters.
Chastain ( Take Shelter, Zero Dark Thirty) has the lead role. She's the
girlfriend, but becomes the unwilling stepmom to the two girls. The
girls accept her to different degrees, but still cling to each other
first and foremost. They also cling to "Mama" and vice versa. Thus what
you have is a battle of wills between the supernatural and the living
world with the emotional and physical well being of two little girls
hanging in the balance. Maybe the presence of Barbara Muschietti
(sister of the director) as one of the producers and writers of the
film had some influence on having women as the driving force.

In addition, Mama might feel and look like the style of Guillermo del
Toro film. That could be because he executive produced the film. If you
are familiar with his work, you can see his hand in guiding this maiden
voyage. Even so, Mama stands on it's own merits. It's far from perfect.
The acting, especially from the kids, some trippy and macabre imagery ,
and a bit of a twist might make you want to sleep with the lights on.
