
This lovely movie was based on Doris Lessing's short story "The
Grandmothers". I just saw the premiere at Sundance and absolutely loved
it. Supposedly inspired by a true story, it's about two mothers who
really like their son's best friend (their best friend's son) And that
tag line is what you'll hear all about. Oh, the horror. I imagine
middle age male reviewers will not particularly like this movie, though
gay men will most likely love it. But it's a film about women--their
friendships, husbands, relationships, sons and lovers. It's directed by
Anne Fontaine, a French woman (which explains the exorbitant number of
scenes with smoking cigarettes, and an insanely un-American story
concept that young men might be attracted to older women.) 

It's beautifully crafted (gorgeous cinematography) and has intelligent
editing (watch for the skillful matched cuts that "age" the
characters). The performances are all around great. Robin Wright is
amazing--it's an Oscar caliber performance, however, the film probably
won't get a large enough release to be on the radar for awards (sort of
like poor John Hawkes not getting nominated for "The Sessions", what
was the Academy thinking?) Of course, setting the movie in Australia
means the other main character is the location. Tanned surfing teenage
boys with model-beautiful mothers in bikinis, cowabunga mate (and
significantly less handsome husbands and admirers, thankfully not shown
in Speedos.)

There was laughter in the screening in places unexpected by the
director, but this was probably just anxious laughter by viewers
unaccustomed to thinking about middle aged women having sexual and
emotional interest in younger men. Actually, I felt the laughter
lightened up the viewing experience, and made the characters more human
(okay, so I laughed and cried in this movie, but I never laughed at
it.) At almost every story point where an expected turn would happen
(if following Hollywood development script notes) the writer took what
I call the "elegant decision" and pleasantly surprised me. 

This is all around superb filmic story telling. Brilliant performances,
intelligent and gentle direction, spectacular scenery, highly
professional technical craftsmanship, and (for most of us, I expect)
new emotional territory. It's a great film. I truly hope you get to see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
A fascinating, intellectual and profound exploration of the psyches of
four uniquely damaged characters: two boys who never quite left the
womb, growing up in a small and affluent community far removed from
reality, with one father figure MIA, the other passive and
disconnected, and only their mothers for comfort and company; and two
women, who never conquered their fears of aging or their struggles with
self-esteem and sexual confidence, and whose intimate love for each
other and need to feel young and desired manifest themselves in
dangerous liaisons with each other's sons. 

The premise is disturbing and unrealistic but a major strength of the
film is that the characters' actions feel believable and
understandable: but never condoned or really condemned. We are given
such insight into their island-like community, their lifestyles, their
dynamics and their psyches that it's perfectly clear why they fall into
these simultaneously symbiotic and parasitic relationships. There is a
nuance and an apathy to the directing that encourage the audience to
focus more on the "how" and "why" rather than the "what." The film is
never sexy or erotic because there is so much loneliness, pain and
desperation in the sex scenes. The ocean metaphors strengthen the
storytelling but never overwhelm it, and there is one particularly
profound scene when Watts and Wright's granddaughters are lifted out of
the very water that pulled them under and destroyed them. 

The film lags around the mid-point, once the quartet has fallen into a
rhythm and so there is no more conflict or tension, but picks up again
once their group dynamic and Watts' character's happiness are
threatened. The ending is disconcerted and unexpected, but on
reflection, given the film's themes and the characters' self-
destructiveness, it couldn't have convincingly ended any other way. 

Wright and Watts do career-best work here (people who think Watts is
often overwrought will like her here, I think) - both give understated
but incredibly complex performances and create living, breathing,
three- dimensional people out of these initially unbelievable women.
Their guilt, neediness and agony are ever-present in their eyes even as
the characters try to remain composed and rational. The boys aren't
given as much to do but Xavier Samuel perfectly captures the confidence
and faux-invulnerability of adolescence. It's also the first time Watts
has laughed on screen in what must be years now, which is nice to see!

Overall, in spite of some silly dialogue, it's riveting, labyrinthine,
and unique - it's been a very long time since an English-language film
explored female sexuality and psychology as intimately and impartially
as this one does. It feels more at home with 90's French dramas like La
belle noiseuse and La cérémonie than it does in 2013. I'm not entirely
surprised it's received such a hateful and crude reaction online, but
it has a lot more to offer than a controversial setting, and I hope
audiences will be able to look past the premise and see it not as an
"issue film" but as the perceptive and devastating character study that
it really is.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I have to recommend this movie to anyone who wants to be stunned
by a cozy and atmospheric setting, a convenient cast, surprisingly calm
and well thought dialogs and a plot which sometimes triggers a variety
of mixed feelings like disgust & attraction, shame & dignity. Overall i
felt very calm and relaxed, sometimes i smiled, sometimes i wondered.

The film is so beautifully shot from beginning to end that every
picture has its right to exist. Although the subject could be seen as a
controversy to people who don't like to think outside the box it never
felt like one. This made me think about what i would have thought if
the gender of the characters would be the opposite. Despite that this
would be a real challenge creating a movie which feels exact the same
way i came to the conclusion that there is no equality in love and life
and therefore this movie works for me like a charm.

The title of another (accurate) user review here can be misleading
though and almost led me to skip this movie. This is definitely not a
chick flick for grannies ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start with saying that when the movie was finished and the
lights were on again, I did not want it to end. I wanted to see what
would happen even afterwards, I wanted it to continue. I was stunned to
my seat with lot of thoughts and emotions.

Plot: Two lifelong friends and mothers - Lil, who is a widower and Roz,
who is married - whose bonds go back to their childhood, adore each
other and their sons. Their sons are also best friends and during one
summer evening after wine and fun Roz and Ian (Lil's son) are getting
attracted to each other. Passion takes them into unknown and
questionable territory - they have sex. Tom (Roz's son) sees his mother
leaving Ian's room and Tom takes the news to Lil. It doesn't take long
for Lil and Tom to fall into the same pattern.

There are hesitations, but these do not last long and the secret
relationships continue until the plot takes you to 2 years later when
Tom goes to Sydney. His visit to Sydney changes everything for four of
them - the nasty truth has its way to come out and alter everybody's
happy lives.

I loved the story. It was dramatic, heartbreaking, beautiful and sad. I
loved the relationships and how these were handled in the movie. It's a
story where you have high doubts about happy endings. But the plot and
the director kept surprising you and it asked a lot of important
questions. What kind of love is acceptable? Does age matter? Can people
handle the consequences of their own actions and do these make them
happy? Is it allowed to fall passionately in love when you are
middle-aged? Why are people willing to give up on love even though they
do not want to do that, but know it's the only reasonable thing to do?
Is it love when you do what you think is best and hurt the one you love
with that? All these and many other questions were raised and it is up
to the viewer to decide and find the answers to them. What I loved
about Adore was exactly, that the answers were not given to you, it
woke a lot of thoughts.

Adore was filled with interesting relationships. My favorite was the
relationship between Roz and Ian and it broke my heart to see what
people do to the ones they love. Roz wanted to give Ian free because of
her loyalty to Lil and because she wanted that Ian could enjoy his
young life. The sad thing was, that Ian did not want that freedom, he
ached for Roz for years, he loved her. Roz did what she felt was right
and suffered because of that.

When you look at the relationship between Lil and Tom, it was simpler,
but not easier for that matter. There were more secrets and these
secrets hurt the not only themselves, but also Ian and Roz.

Adore is a movie about love and betrayal and relationships.

Directing, sets: I have seen few other movies directed by Anne Fontaine
and Adore proved once again, than she is one of the best female
contemporary directors. I personally think she did an excellent work
with the movie.

The settings in the New South Wales in Australia were beautiful. There
were lot of scenes on and nearby the sea and beach. It was absolutely
breathtaking! Casting and the ensemble: Both Naomi Watts and Robin
Wright belong to my long-time favorites and the delivered exactly and
more what I expected from them. Bigger surprises were the young men
playing Ian and Tom - Xavier Samuel and James Frecheville. I truly
liked how they played their characters, they had quite a big tasks with
these roles and they were believable and natural as Ian and Tom. Very
suitable cast in my opinion.

Generally: Adore is a controversial movie. I think there are people who
would love the imbroglio of relationships and friendships and then
there are the ones who would judge them. I belong to the first group. I
really enjoyed the drama!
<|_=00=_|>
I almost didn't watch this film due to its average rating and some of
the reviews here. I suspect the negative reviews have more to do with
people rigid world views and moral inclinations than actual capacity to
distinguish any kind of subtlety in the way the story unfolds. 

Interestingly it doesn't actually unfold as one would expect and as
some commentators have claimed. 

Naomi Watts acting is excellent and the emotions she conveys make the
story believable. 

As for the 2 young surfer dudes, one of them actually looks a bit like
Julian Wilson (Top pro surfer) which should be a pleasant surprise for
the ladies out there.

The location, beach houses, cinematography are beautiful and makes you
want to move to Australia. Just for that the movie is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The audience is polarized in response to this astonishingly refreshing
and brilliant little film: some are completely disgusted with the theme
of 'aberrant love' while other are awash in the courageous work by
director Anne Fontaine, Fontaine and Christopher Hampton's adaptation
of Doris Lessing's short story 'The Grandmothers', and the acting by
two of our finest actresses on the screen. Knowing that it is both
loved and hated depending on the degree of appreciation for
experimental film should be the driving force as to whether or not to
take advantage witnessing this brave new film.

In New South Wales, Roz (Robin Wright), her husband Harold (Ben
Mendelsohn) and their son Tom (James Frecheville) live near the beach.
Lil, (Naomi Watts) who is a widow, lives nearby with her son Ian
(Xavier Samuel). Roz and Lil are best friends, and so are Tom and Ian.
Harold applies for and is offered a job in Sydney without telling Roz.
He expects Roz to move to Sydney with him, however, she hesitates.
After a night of drinking quite unexpectedly on the surface Ian and Roz
start a sexual relationship. Tom discovers this and takes revenge by
initiating a sexual relationship with Lil. Now Roz has even more reason
to stay, and later Roz and Harold divorce. Two years of these two
mothers/best friend's sons affairs pass but not without the inference
that Roz and Lil are lesbians - a way for Lil to avoid the approach of
a suitor Saul (Gary Sweet). Harold returns from Sydney and his new
highly enviable job in the theater department and discovers the affairs
and summarily absents himself from the situation and from Roz. There
are hesitations, but these do not last long and the secret
relationships continue. Eventually Tom goes to Sydney for a promising
job interview in the theater. His visit to Sydney changes everything
for four of them - the nasty truth has its way to come out and alter
everybody's happy lives. The rest of the film is a rapidly moving
progression of changing affinities and eventual strange resolutions.

The nuanced performances by Robin Wright and Naomi Watts are brilliant
and very equally balanced with the sensuous and realistic portrayals By
Xavier Samuel and James Frecheville. The chemistry is extraordinary and
credible and makes what could have been a strained story work
meticulously well. The cinematography by Christophe Beaucarne and the
musical score by Christopher Gordon enhance the liquid flow of this
stunning film. The story and the film itself require an emotionally
mature audience able to accept variations on the themes of love and
lust, but given there are mores to overcome, this is a brilliant art
piece. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
The director of this movie is a Frenchwoman. Of course, in French,
"mother" and "ocean" are homonyms. 

Maybe it's just because I am celibate these days, but unlike some of
the other reviewers, I saw a lot more morbidity here than I did desire. 

One of the other reviewers praises Robin Wright's performance as a
"strong woman". What? These women aren't strong...they are as craven
and callow. They cede to the ultimate taboo: mother-son incest. Sure,
they didn't quite officially cross that line...but they might as well
have. The reason incest (by hook or by crook) is taboo has nothing to
do with inbreeding...it is because it leads to subjective ruin. Nothing
has quite the same devastating effect on one's subjectivity as a
blurring of this one particular line. I thought that the film was a
success here: what happens to these four characters is catastrophic.
Two stunted, brainless male children...two decadent aging women who
continue to giggle like preteen girls when they are together. Try to
imagine these monsters in twenty years. Notice that no one is
interested in anything...yes, we see cursory hints that they are
interested in something besides fusion with each others' bodies (the
art gallery, the yacht business, the theater stuff) but all of it is
strictly external to the characters. They never use language with each
other for any reason other than to seduce each other. This loss of the
liberating force that is Logos is the consequence of incest. If you
cross this line, you are ruined for the outside world...all that's left
is your little floating island in the ocean. These two women with their
endless glasses of wine, their silly giggling, their vanity, their
narcissism...are nothing less than evil. Their sons are not likable
either, and even though they are both portrayed as instigators in the
narrow sense of the word, they are by definition victims. The failure
of their respective attempts to break away from the womb can be laid at
the feet of these two women who refuse to sacrifice anything for their
precious pleasure. I am thinking of the scene where Ian spills the
beans and sends the wives and babies running for the hills. When Ian
claims, rightfully, that he was just telling the truth, Roz reproaches
him with some chilling sophistry about "hurting people" or whatever.
The director does a good job here of illustrating, without needing to
belabor the point, how incest and Logos/subjectivity are incompatible,
and how even if you do your best to tell the truth, the situation is in
itself so dishonest as to be irredeemable through acknowledgment of any
sort. 

I took a couple of stars off because the pacing is a little slow. The
actors are all good. The audience laughed when the two wives found out
what was going on...I doubt that was the director's intention.
<|_=00=_|>
{8.5 stars}

ADORE could have turned out really cheesy, but the very real
characters, along with a nice blend of funny and sad moods, fitting
soundtrack, and pretty Australian beach scenery keep it from becoming
so. Fine performances by all the major players. Though more character
and conflict development may seem needed at first, we get to know
everyone and everything gradually, and the fact that they are all just
fairly "normal" (whatever that is) people is pivotal. Not the greatest
script, but it's nothing if not realistic.

Regarding the plot: The way the improbable quadrangle develops is
pretty convincing. Even if what's happening in the premise is nothing
illegal, it's obviously weird if not downright perverse. Yet, I was
surprised to find myself rooting for both couples as ADORE proceeded,
wanting them all to be happy together. The way the two women bear a
superficial resemblance to each other, causing us to occasionally
forget who's whose mum and who's whose lover, is another interesting
effect. Finally, the isolated cove with its stationary sun-raft is an
apropos symbol.

Though it's obviously not a "family film" or one for younger children,
there is no gore, serious nudity (just a couple of brief booty-shots of
Robin Wright and Xavier Samuel), or other flinchable elements (unless
you count the multiple unexplicit sex scenes).

ADORE is one of the strongest, most satisfying films to come out in
recent years, and I enjoyed it immensely.
<|_=00=_|>
this film is a masterpiece. not only because the casting/the
performance and the directing are stunning. it's more than eye can
see/words can say. and definitely, it's not for judges. and not for
everybody. just a 'niche'. it is touching and comprehensible and human
and not "generaly". doing "what's good/normal/suitable" versus "the
feeling, the pure one/the moment in a short human life/ the truth".
it's about age? that age that touch, maybe, the body but not the
spirit. it's about the capacity of giving/loving without hope, without
counting...it's about the pain. 

somehow, loving without a future is like living well knowing that death
waits at the corner. painful enough. as life itself.

I saw gentleness, delicacy, loyalty, generosity and suffering,
friendship and generosity again and human fail. and pain. who's fault
it is?

don't know the answer. know only that friendship, love, loyalty and
pain, they do exists. tough destiny, after all.

Not enough words to considerate the performance of Robin Wright, Naomi
Watts, Xavier Samuel and James Frecheville. Oscars were won for less.

As for the director, such a softness of the regard...perfect
screenplay, perfect director cut. much deeper then the words of Doris
Lessing, far away of "current diagnostics".
<|_=00=_|>
Just read thru about 20 or so reviews...."disgusting",
"disturbing"......you guys all seemed to have missed the mark on this
one. 

*************spoilers*******

This movie shows you that you should follow your heart. So what if some
of you small minded people find this situation "wrong". Then don't do
it. doesn't mean others cant. It's society that is wrong. They were
happy. But they kept trying to go against what they were feeling
instead of flowing with it. They were all quite happy. What a shame
that some people cannot live the life they want to be it homosexual,
whatever, because they have so much societal pressure working against
them. Shame shame shame!

And look how many lives were ruined? And for what? Because the guys
were too young? Pfft. Real eye opener.
