
I went to the cinema to see 'Sinister', but it was full, so we went and
saw Stitches instead. I'm so glad we did! This film was classic! I
expected a horror, but I wasn't at all prepared for how much it'd make
me smile. Ross does a brilliant job bringing his character to life, and
the story and kids wrapped around the concept are just tacky enough to
reek of stereotype, but just different enough to keep you entertained
and smiling (such as Bulger doing the splits at the gym, or the 'bully'
actually being the only character in a stable, functional
relationship).

Brilliant film, a lovely surprise to what would have otherwise been a
disappointing evening!
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this and I must admit that I had MANY truly
laugh out loud moments. ONLY the UK people can pull off something like
this with the DEAD-pan sense of humour it takes to make this work.
Sure, some of the comments the clown makes are pretty corny, but there
are far more that are REALLY funny!

There are some nice classic Horror touches too. YES, it is a bit gore
heavy; but, the effects are well done and very imaginative. I really
appreciated the inclusion of the 'Cat' (YES, I love animals, but I love
people too, so if you're gonna make a dang Horror film where a bunch of
'teens' are killed, well...) Anyway, back to the nice Horror touches...
Gore withstanding (it's almost NEVER my favourite part anyway) the
early scenes with the very creative Clown ceremony and mythology were
quite entertaining. The guy playing the clown himself was bloody
HILARIOUS! His deadpan comments, especially early on before the
'accident' were great!

So, if you DO like entertaining and well done Comedy / Horror, then
this is your film. As mentioned by another reviewer, if you are really
sensitive about gore effects, then you might want to proceed carefully
(For me personally, this kind of 'cartoon' or 'fantasy' gore is all
right, although it IS kind of pushing it. What I absolutely do NOT like
at all are these 'Torture Porn' films where evil people are just doing
horrible, cruel, and mean-spirited things to other people in ULTRA-
realistic ways without any fanciful or supernatural context - Those are
complete non-starters with me...)

I'd say that if you really liked 'REANIMATOR', you probably would
really like this film. Lots of fun if this is your kind of thing...
<|_=00=_|>
I love Ross Noble! So we jumped at the chance to see this as the
closing film to Grimmfest this year! Im very glad i did! Stitches is a
very funny take on the slasher genre, using comedy and horror combined,
it reminded me of the latter Elm Street movies, where the villain has
to use a comic gag to kill his victim! Ross noble seemed to revel in
the role and proving to be a very convincing killer clown! He even went
onto say in the Q & A about wanting sequels made, do we have a British
Jason/Freddy in our midst! Maybe with a bit more budget and a stronger
supporting cast and a little better writing, Stitches could become the
UKs' very own slasher icon!
<|_=00=_|>
I am sure die hard fans of the horror genre will balk at the effects in
this little gem of a comedy but then most die hard horror fans have a
pole up their backsides the size of Nelsons Column judging by some of
the reviews here at IMDb of other movies...

This is a delightful comedy romp that pokes fun of the horror genre
much in the same vein as "Funny Man", even the effects are a parody of
horror effects that underlies the difficulties in producing them...

Characterisation is simplistic and yet effective for a comedy (Nobody
is expecting the type of characterisation of Anna Karenina in a simple
comedy)...

I personally feel that Ross Noble did a good job in playing the slobby
and vengeful clown and many of the gags made me laugh out loud, not
least the site of him riding a kiddies tricycle...

If you want deep go and watch Anna Karenina or read war and peace but
for a comedy this rings all the bells....
<|_=00=_|>
While the slasher/comedy/horror genre has been done to death, the Irish
film 'Stitches' takes the main elements of the genre and puts a fresh
twist on it.

The story has a real 'Nightmare on Elm Street' vibe: Ross Noble plays
Stitches, a cynical clown who is accidentally killed by some bratty
kids at a birthday party. A clown cult preserves his spirit and six
years later Stitches returns to exact revenge on the same kids, now
teenagers.

While 'Stitches' may be a lot more low-budget than modern horror fans
are used to, it works because it's funny, it has imaginative and
creative death scenes (another 'Elm Street' nod) and the over-the-top
gore: including intestines being turned into a balloon animal, a head
being blown up with a balloon pump, an umbrella through the eye and
brains being scooped out with a can opener and an ice cream scoop. It's
basically an old-school slasher film with a few updates.

Noble is the only known actor in the film and he carries is: rather
than lazily trade on his stand-up persona, he manages to balance the
funny and creepy side of Stitches (even killing a poor, innocent cat
during his rampage). He seems to be genuinely enjoying it, delivering
his kills with bad clown puns.

The teenage cast does a serviceable job but play second fiddle to
Stitches' killing spree.

If you're a fan of old-school slashers which balance the funny and the
gory, then 'Stitches' is worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
-Minor Spoilers- The film starts off campy with the clown "Stitches"
going to the birthday party of 10 year old Tom. The kids at the party
are bullies to the clown and a simple prank from the kids ends with the
gory death of "Stitches". 6 years later Tom and the group of friends
get back together for Toms 16 year old birthday party. Little do they
know that "Stitches" has risen from the grave to get revenge.

I randomly stumbled across this gem one day at Best Buy and impulsively
purchased it. I had no idea what I was in for but I didn't have high
expectations. Little did I know this was one of the best modern indie
horror movies! Many are going to disagree strongly, but I feel this
movie is in the league of cult horror classics such as "Evil Dead" ,
"Brain Dead/Dead Alive" , and slasher movies of the 1980s. The budget
for this movie is low, and they still managed to make a horror movie
better than most big budget movies released nationwide in the US.
Though this movie isn't really a 10/10. I gave it a 10 to help raise
it's low score. It's more of a 9 in Horror standards. But it is a 10
when it comes to low budget movies! The special effects are so indie
and realistic at the same time. The jokes and humor of the movie made
me laugh multiple times. The music is creepy and the soundtrack is
awesome. There is even a popular song from the 1980s used perfectly in
a certain scene that is just fantastic! The gore effects were perfect
and cleverly done. The acting was very believable. 

Honestly during the opening scene I thought I was going to hate this
movie. Then things got serious, while still maintaining the humor. Ross
Noble, the British Comedian, plays "Stitches" the evil clown. His
performance is what makes this movie work the most. I cannot get over
how perfect and eerie his portrayal of the living dead clown was. It
was iconic. It is in the league of Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger and
Doug Bradley as Pinhead. I will even go as far as to say that it was
the best clown performance since Stephen Kings "It". This movie will
make you laugh and cringe. It will creep you out. The visuals are
gorgeous for a film with this low of a budget. They need to make more
horror movies like this. This movie could be the start of a modern
horror icon franchise! "Stitches" can be added to the list of iconic
villains of Horror movies! I am disappointed at the low rating.
Hopefully through the years if word-of-mouth helps, this movie will
become the Horror cult classic that it is meant to become! 

Turn off the lights and watch this movie with friends or alone. You
will have a good time. Well worth a purchase or redbox rental if you
like good campy horror movies in the vain of "Evil Dead" and the
original "Nightmare on Elmstreet" movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit, I never had heard of the comedian Ross Noble before I
watched this movie. And I wouldn't have been that intrigued by him, if
I hadn't seen him perform live. Actually that means he opened the
Frightfest and introduced Stitches a day later to the audience. The
fact that he was talking about his movie made me believe he was the
director. He got me fooled (met the real director too, a really nice
guy) and maybe some others too.

But back to this movie, that is a real fun little horror movie, that
plays with the fear of clowns. Some have a real phobia, those shouldn't
watch this movie of course. Or if you are easily offended (be it by
violence or nonpolitical correctness) - don't watch. Everyone else:
Jump on the the train and have fun during the trip.
<|_=00=_|>
If Peter Jackson had been from Ireland instead of New Zealand, Stitches
is the movie he might have made first in place of Bad Taste. It's got
the same dark humor, most of which falls flat but some of which hits
the spot. There's the same gleeful gore, okay perhaps not quite as much
as Bad Taste but close. The deaths are inventive and entertaining and
the whole movie would have been improved by better editing, a better
score and a bigger budget, just like Bad Taste. 

The plot is basic slasher fare. Two parts Friday 13th part VI, One Part
Nightmare on Elm Street, One part Stephen King's IT, but a dash of it's
own originality thrown in as well. It's let down a little by some
really odd pacing and editing choices that slow down the action where
it should be building up. If you've seen enough low budget indies
you'll probably know what I'm talking about, it's a fairly common
amateur film problem.

Still, it's a damn good try and it's heart is in the right place.
Regular folks will sit through this very bemused, or more likely turn
it off after the first half hour, but horror aficionados will be at
least entertained if not downright elated.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched 'Stitches' mainly because, as well as loving horror, I'm also
a big Ross Noble fan and was interested to see how his stand-up would
transfer to acting. To be fair, he doesn't have much to do in the way
of acting.

His 'unconventional' (sorry, Ross) looks make it easy for the make-up
department to transform him into an evil, undead clown, hell-bent on
seeking bloodthirsty revenge on the party of children who caused his
death in the first place.

In short, Ross Noble steals every scene he's in. Sadly, he's not in it
enough. He doesn't really come into it (proper) until midway through
and, by then, you've been forced to watch your usual 'teen drama.' As
this is a British film, I was hoping for something a little more
original than 'uber-geek falls in love with beautiful girl who just so
happens to be going out with an arrogant jock.' Sadly, that's all we
get. All the (non undead clown) characters are total stereotypes.
You'll know exactly who'll die the moment you see them.

And die they do. That's where the film excels. I'm guessing it had
quite a small budget, but it really makes the most of the gore. Some of
the death scenes are truly disgusting (and hilarious in their
over-the-topness).

Stitches is worth watching if you like horror and Ross Noble. He
provides all the comedy and gore which will satisfy you. However, sadly
the film can never truly be a classic, as the first half is pretty
bland and the second half is only ever really alive when the (dead)
Ross Nobel is on-screen.

It's a good film that's (sadly) wrapped up in the oldest movie cliché
going.
<|_=00=_|>
Killer clowns is something that we don't see that much off in the
slasher genre, which is a shame as they can be quite scary or funny if
handled right (It & Killer Clowns From Out Space) are the only ones
that come to mind and now we have "Stitches" , a British Slasher flick
mixed with comedy, which is somewhat rather tough to get right and
doesn't always work, but with this movie I can gladly say that they got
right.

Stitches is the name of the clown himself, who starts off as a
children's entertainer and is accidentally killed at 10 year old
Tommy's birthday party and of course swears revenge on Tommy and his
friends and then fast forward 6 years later, Tommy now an awkward
teenager still haunted by the freak accident and fears that Stitches
will one day come back and kill him, and in true fashion he does come
back.

The film moves along at a swift pace which is a good thing firstly when
we are introduced to the kids now as teenagers we get the usual hijinks
and some gross out humour and then the tone quickly changes and we are
of course treated to a variety of creative and fun kills and the gore
effects are really great, (that's where all the budget went) but it's
money well spent we get exploding head, private parts ripped apart,
brain's scouped out with ice cream scoop and a nasty umbrella accident. 

But there are some flaws, like the low low budget which shows
throughout sadly, and at times this movie seems to switch from one
extreme to another one minute a dark comedy and one minute a slasher
flick and plus some parts do border beyond stupid, I could have done
without the stupid clown nose part which was way too over the top,
along with the mystical orgin of clowns part which was again stupid and
pointless.

But those flaws set aside "Stitches" was still a fun entertaining ride,
the teen cast were disposable but likable although the dialogue could
have done with some fine tuning. Ross Nobole as Stitches definitely
stole the show displaying comedy and menace at level best. Tommy Knight
is also decent enough as the main final boy.

All in all "Stitches" is a fun way to pass the time, and could have
been much better if there was more of a budget, and take out some of
the stupid parts.
