
Why do you go to the cinema? For me, it is to be moved. To laugh, to
cry, to be frightened, to be in awe, to be amused in a gentle way. This
movie did this to me in all 5 ways. I am Mr. Ordinary - I have been
lucky enough to be born into a loving family, I have wooed a certain
number of women, I have married and enjoyed the highs and lows of
having my own family, I have lost my parents. I try in my own way to
appreciate others and acknowledge that they are trying to make their
way in life. This movie defines me. If you miss it this time, don't
worry. You'll catch it later. Most people interested in cinema will see
it at some stage. My advice is to go and see it now. It's not perfect -
it's a bit English, a bit middle class, the story is preposterous. But
the sentiment, the message hits the spot. Take one of your significant
others. Take a first date. Take a box of tissues. It's the reason you
go to the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
I just don't understand how people are not liking this film. It is just
perfect!!! Any Richard Curtis movie I rate against Love actually,
because to me that is his best film and one of my all time favourites!
But About Time for me beats love actually hands down. The film is so
well thought out and the cast is just so good! I have seen this movie
twice already as it was such a great story. The main focus of the film
is about love and family so don't be too worried about the travelling
in time, it fits into the film so well and makes some great comic
moments when things go wrong. Don't listen to the haters, this really
is a fabulous movie! It is a sad thought though that this could be
Richard's last film he is going to direct, I hope not, but if it is,
what a way to end his brilliant films! 

Well done Richard Curtis! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Initial impressions of a book, film, play, piece of music etc. can
sometimes be ill-considered. I have occasionally revised my opinion of
such a work with the passage of time. I am confident, however, that I
shall not change my view on "About Time", the sheer brilliance of which
has quite bowled me over. It's not only one of the very best films I
have seen recently. It's one of the best I have ever seen. Yes, I think
it's that good.

"About Time" is a romantic comedy about the vicissitudes of life and
love. It's witty, clever, intelligent and very funny. But it's also a
film of perhaps quite surprising depth. The centrepiece of the film is
the relationship between Tim (Domnhall Gleeson), a young lawyer living
in London, and his father (Bill Nighy), who lives with Tim's mother
(Lindsay Duncan) in Cornwall. Tim's father is able to time travel. He
cannot change history when doing so; but he can revisit past
experiences and incidents within his own life and alter their outcomes.
Tim has inherited this ability from his father (a gift which apparently
is hereditary on the male side of the family). He uses it to improve
his love life. He builds up a strong bond and a young family with Mary
(Rachel McAdams). But he soon realises that his exceptional gift does
not protect him from the normal ups and downs of family life. Indeed,
one of the most moving scenes in the film (and there are many) is a
conversation Tim has with his father on learning that the latter has
terminal cancer. 

The performances, the screenplay, the direction and the soundtrack are
first class. The humour is excellent. There is one very funny scene in
which Tim nervously meets his prospective in-laws for the first time
and blurts out an admission that he and Mary do not practise oral sex.
There is also a very amusing sex scene. The soundtrack includes music
performed by The Cure, Amy Winehouse and Nick Cave. Indeed, the
featured Cave song, "Into My Arms", forms a motif for the themes
depicted in the film and gets a specific mention by Tim's father when
he is discussing his funeral arrangements with Tim. 

"About Time" is a very watchable, intelligent and witty film that could
so easily have descended to mawkishness and sentimentality. But it
doesn't. It's a brilliant film that raises in the viewer's mind all
sorts of important questions about life, love and loyalty. Do go and
see it. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film. I perfect balance of story, humour and sincerity
along with excellent acting and a wonderful cast. Even the soundtrack
was superb. Not your average time travel movie. Very thought provoking
and one which tugged at the old tear ducts in the best way. Some
reviews complain about how it is like this or that film. No film is
unique, and for sure there are similarities with other Richard Curtis
films, but that is all. Plus to be compared to other great films is
surely an honour. Forget about all that and enjoy what is a great film
which will inspire you in ways you were not expecting. Thoroughly
enjoyable and I'm already looking forward to going to see it again.
That doesn't happen very often.
<|_=00=_|>
From the director of 'Love Actually', who is also the writer of 'Four
Weddings and a Funeral', 'Bean', 'Notting Hill' and the 'Bridget Jones'
films, it sure raises some expectations for this particular fantasy
romantic comedy drama film about time travel. 

Although it shares some similarities with 'The Time Traveler's Wife'
(the same female lead actress, Rachel McAdams) and 'Groundhog Day', but
rest assured, 'About Time' is a witty, intelligent, charming, sweet
film with surprising depth and heart. The script was well written, the
direction was great and the casts made a decent performance in their
respective roles. 

The film done a fine job in balancing the comedic and dramatic elements
of the story, providing enough laughter and allowing it to flow
smoothly without feeling too overly long despite its 2 hours running
time.

Despite the time-traveling plot device, the story focuses on the
father-son relationship of Tim and his dad and the lovely romantic
relationship between Tim and Mary, without being too sappy, too overly
lovey-dovey or too sentimental. The message or overall theme of the
film about appreciating life as if it was your last was subtle and not
too forceful or preachy.The selection of songs for the film was
appropriate and not too overly done for the emotional scenes.The
on-screen chemistry between Rachel and Domhnall are convincing enough
for the audience to watch them going through life together. On the
other hand, Domhnall and Bill, as father and son, their connection is
felt throughout the film and certainly evoke some poignant memories
when watching them together.

It's one of the best romantic comedies this year had to offer, better
than the disappointing 'Time Traveler's Wife'. It's a great date movie
that's not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate this movie.

Why might you ask have I rated it 10/10 then? Because it is possibly
the most completely wonderful story I have ever watched.

I'm getting on now, I'm a guy in my late 30's who is into action and
violence and explosions and big robots smashing things and never before
have I seen a movie which moved me to tears.

There were elements which reminded me of silly things which I have done
in the past and wished I could have done over, moments I wish I could
relive and times I wish I could get - even writing this makes me want
to cry! Damn you Richard Curtis, you've made me into a sissy with your
perfect casting in this bloody beautiful, touching movie!!!

I don't usually do sentimentality but this isn't the reason I hate this
movie... No I hate this movie because I think it has replaced the
Princess Bride as my no. 1! And yes I know that was a soppy romance but
it had pirates in it so it was fine!!!

See this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband accompanied me, but warned me that he would not stay if it
didn't interest him after 15 minutes. He stayed, and gave me the
summary, CHICK FLICK FOR MEN.

It's a fantasy because it deals with living in the present and the past
at the same time. It's a romance because it's about young love, and
love expressed between two people who have been married for a very long
time and still feel that spark that brought them together. It's a
family film about siblings loving one another so much that one of them
might just jeopardize his future to save his sister's life. It's a
cautionary tale for those who practice habits that could sicken them or
get them killed. It's about life, and truly living one's life even when
faced with the prospect of death. 

The acting is solid, and Rachel McAdams is lovely and inspiring. The
rest of the actors are amazing as well, and you want to believe that it
is all real. But the story itself can be so unbelievable. Just go with
it. It's like a really high calorie dessert that tastes so good you
don't care if you gain five pounds. I enjoyed ABOUT TIME immensely, and
I could watch it again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
A young man, like many others. Only he can travel in time. This main
element of the plot, is something that was difficult to digest
throughout the film, since it was not a predominantly sci-fi movie.
This struggle was compensated by the successful interjection that even
with such ability, life can have difficulties.

The main character, did use this to his advantage to win the love of
the girl he was so fond of but still he often faced difficult choices
as to let things happen or turn the time back to prevent them.

One thing that makes this stand out is the somewhat philosophical
approach, an approach that is conveyed with simplicity so all can
relate.

Overall, it is an intelligent film, with emotion and poignancy.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best Movies i have watched till date. This movie makes you
imagine all what you can feel and all what you want to feel in just 120
minutes. Worth watching millions of times. I have seen many time travel
concepts before but this is where my heart pounded better than any
where.

Not only romances is magnificent, humor and drama are also far better
than many Classics. With Heart touching soundtracks and songs, the
movie has Eye pleasing Scenes.

Characters are perfectly casted. Performance, screenplay, dialogues etc
all are first class. But the best is the Presentation of emotions which
could be linked to every single person who ever Loved someone or just
believes in.

The movie begins with casual entries and remains a good entertainer
till second half while in the last quarter(ending) it cross a bridge
and steps in best movie category platform with a message of living.

I strongly recommend this movie to all the viewers.

I rate this Movie 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
What an amazing movie. When I see the cast and the title, I immediately
thought of a romantic cliché, with full of known plot twists, and et
cetera. Rachel McAdams is known for her romantic movies, but this was
just more and more than that.

About Time was one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. I was
immediately captured, and the cast is so brilliant, I believed every
single line. Thank you for this film, I am still under the influence of
this movie. It is about life, in the most raw way. How life should be
lived, and how we should see the world, as it is.

Extraordinary movie. Magnificent.
