
I am lucky I didn't read the book. In fact, the book and film of any
story is always very different from each other and should be rated
separately without comparing them. It is a 2:30 hours movie and it
isn't boring at any moment. From the beginning till the end you are
entertained by the story and the action. It is a big production, one of
those you have to see in the theater due to the imagine, the
landscapes, the special effects. And talking about the special effect;
there are enough, but for once this movie is not an "ONLY and
overloaded action" movie. Lately, most of the films are possible to see
on the screen at home, because the imagine is not of that type a
cine-screen is needed. This production is made like the classical big
productions, like Lawrence of Arabia or The English Patient. So, enough
action, not boring, entertaining and you can leave the theater in a
relax status and not tired of all the car chases.

Tom Payne, Mr Kingsley and Skarsgard make a very good act. 

Negative parts ?! Missing some link in the voyage between England and
the Orient. Some unexplainable jumps in the story, which for sure are
treated well in the book. But, it is not disturbing and quiet normal in
a big story as this one.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, If one wants to write about history you must make an
effort to read about it. Even- though I don't read about Rob Cole any
where in Ibn Sina's history, still I can bear adding him to the story
but not not giving him all the credit to Ibn Sina's work. Everyone must
knows or even heard about Ibn Sina, in the medical field. People still
studying his work. 

All I can say, it is not a good job to steal someone's work and give it
to an imaginary character. Credit must be given!!! 

Also, I would like to mention the language, the sitting of the movie.
Isfahan is in Iran, who speaks Persian not Arabic, even though they are
Muslims. How come the characters speaks Arabic?!!! The shah's interest
looks like an Arabic prince interest, where in real life there are big
majors different between Arabs and Persians. 

Isfahan did not look like a The Arabian Nights from Thousand and One
Nights, which again belongs to Arabs culture.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very much disappointed and frustrated, in fact, after I watched
this movie. ABCs of making movies about the past, READ HISTORY before
you start bullshi$tting people. 

Ibn Sina (AviCenna)was one if not the greatest physician of his time (
considered the father of Modern Medicine)who was in fact a Muslim
conservative (not even a secular) character. 

Distorted truths and miserable lies within the Movie: 1. Ibn Sina,
considered the greatest scientist and physician of his age, father of
modern medicine. and committed Muslim. 2. Ibn Sina died peacefully in
bed, never committed suicide. died in 1037 way before Siljuks end.
moreover, I advise the author and the producer to check on Ibn Sina's
wealth of literature in different aspects UNDER HIS NAME not being
given as gift to his British student 3.Isfhan is part of Persia, who
speak Persians not Arabic with a Levant Accent!! 4.Jews were not forced
to leave the country, Christians were allowed to study too. none were
prescuted for his/her religion belief under the Islamic rule at that
specific time of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Not only is this film historically inaccurate, but it is also terribly
unlikely, childish and ridiculously stupid. It tells the story of an
uneducated English barber, who (with no knowledge of Persian, Arabic,
Hebrew, and more importantly, no knowledge of philosophy, mathematics,
medicine, etc. and perhaps a total illiterate), disguised as a Jew,
travels to Isfahan to seek medicine training from the greatest
physician of the world, Avicenna. 

Up to this point, the movie is a total work of fiction (except that
Avicenna was actually the greatest physician of the time and Isfahan
was a center of civilization), and highly unlikely, but not quite
stupid yet. The shameless stupidity starts when this young man (again,
with no knowledge of Persian, Arabic, Hebrew, philosophy, mathematics,
medicine, etc.) attends Avicenna's classes without any problem, and in
few months(!) starts guiding Avicenna in treating different diseases!
He even helps Avicenna to realize that plague is transmitted by rats!
Seriously?! The greatest physician/philosopher (and a polymath) of the
11th century, whose books were taught at most European universities as
late as 1650, does not know something in medicine (of course no shame),
but an uneducated barbarian lad does discover confidently! Great!

More ridiculously, this lad (who has come from a time England was full
of superstitions and religious dogma) is shown advising the great
philosopher to grow up of his religious dogma(!) and dissect corpses
for medical purposes! He even takes a 20th century "human rights
activist" tone when saying this "let's dissect" advice to Avicenna!
Were the creators of this movie high on something?! Perhaps they were,
because they later show that this barbarian dissects a corpse, performs
a colon surgery(!) on (and upon the order of) a drunk(!) Shah who goes
to war with the Seljuks right after the surgery! And during these all
great "scientific" discoveries that the barbarian does, the great
Avicenna appears no more than an assistant! There is also a very
"cheap" parallel love-sex story, as well as quite a few 21st-century(!)
urban-Persian conversations going on in the background 

The historical inaccuracy is not the main thing annoying me here: It is
rather the stupidity and unlikeliness that annoys me the most. This
movie is as ridiculously stupid as if it was telling a story in which
Sir Isaac Newton has a Mongolian student who speaks with him in
Mongolian, and shows him the true scientific method, helps him develop
calculus and ultimately spreads Newton's science around the world,
while escaping with his Jewish lover during the "Napoleonic" wars!
Probably some Ali-Baba also appears during the "Napoleonic" wars too!
Ah, yes, and Newton commits suicide when he realizes his library is
flooded by the Vikings! (as in the movie Avicenna commits suicide, in
more of a nihilistic 20th century gesture, when he realizes the Seljuks
set his library on fire) 

No, the historical true Avicenna did not commit suicide. He did not
have any English students. He did not die in Isfahan, nor around the
time that Isfahan was defeated by the Seljuks. Moreover, no one around
that era was able to teach Avicenna how to do medicine. No one was able
to perform a colon surgery during that time (still, even in 21st
century, no patient is able to fight in a war right after a colon
surgery), and finally, English was not among the spoken languages in
11th century Persia. If the creators of this movie really wanted to
produce such a childish fairy-tail, why did they even bother themselves
using the name (and abusing the reputation) of a real historical
figure?! They could have introduced some bogus character in a fictional
country that well matched their boring fairy-tail. 

Besides the historical inaccuracy and childish unlikeliness, I do not
see any artistic achievement in the movie either: just lavish
production, resulting in an unnecessarily long/boring movie (that
reveals nothing about Avicenna's youth/life/achievements), and flashy
scenes, bad clichéd acting, depicting inaccurate architectures,
clothing, races, faces, etc. Quite a blockbuster garbage that stupidly
tries to tell us very unlikely lies about the history and life of (one
of) the greatest physician of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watch the movie and from movie point of view its really a very
nice one. But what i didn't like and i'm amazed why such thing be
written and them made a movie of which includes history and an altered
one. Ibn Sina was a great Muslim scientist who has expertise in
Medicine, Phylosophy, Metaphysics and many more. He died early and not
by suicide but by a natural death. If instead of Ibn Sine they had used
some other fictional Muslim name, a fictional place and fiction Shaw
then that would be understandable but writing the wrong history, by
altering not only a lot of facts and figures and then making a movie
out of it is not good ethically and morally. I guess any historical
publications and movies should go through some check before being
released unless such things are done on purpose.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie was good but writer try to misguide the audience. In movie Ibn
Sina commit suicide but in real not. According to wiki he died in bed
not by taking poison. And also one of the most biggest mistake was that
the life span of Ibn sina and Shah Ala ad-Daula. Ibn Sina was died in
June 1037 and Shah Ala ad-Daula was died in 1156 but in movie they show
Ibn sina commit suicide and Shah was killed in battle approximately
same day or same week. A country without a memory is a country of
madmen. So in my opinion movie was good but blunder with the history.
In the end I must says that History is a tool used by politicians to
justify their intentions.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Physician" is one of the best examples of epic drama and adventure
that has given the recent European cinema. A production of this
magnitude had many papers end up in fiasco, something indigestible and
tortuous because of its bombast. However, the result is more
remarkable: a film that despite its length does not decline at any time
and without being brilliant in any section, offers a more than
acceptable quality as a whole.

Adventure, travel, medicine, interest in learning, tolerance between
religions and radicalism that only lead to death and war. Love,
friendship, perseverance, stubbornness, sacrifice, wisdom, liberated or
repressed emotions ... These are issues , topics reflected in this
amazing German blockbuster spectacular photography aspects. Counting
all the time with a beautiful soundtrack.

Fortunately with the magnificent interpretation of teacher Ben Kingsley
and good work in production design and photography gets put a finishing
touch to this great movie.

The film has a good pace and also has its moments of calm and
reflection necessary . They have done a great job.
<|_=00=_|>
So i just returned from the theater having watched the film version of
one of my most favorite books and to put it short.. very disappointed.

One of the reasons why i love the book is the character interactions in
Rob Coles life.. from the Barber who saved his life as a child and took
him on as an apprentice to the people he meets on his trip to Isfahan
and finally arriving there and becoming part of a trio of friends with
Mirdin Askari, a Jew and Karim from whom he learns much about medicine
and friendship before he can fulfill his lifelong dream of becoming a
physician.

Now the book is big and i understand that you can't cram everything
into about 2 hours but some choices are just puzzling to me and some
are, in my opinion just wrong.

One of the central themes is how the book shows us various cultures as
Rob Cole posing as a Jew comes into real contact with that culture and
has to learn everything to be able to blend in better and in turn his
view of the world gets widened. This is only touched upon casually in
the movie.

Another glaring omission is the friendship of Rob, Mirdin and Karim who
through their studies and adventures get as close as brothers only to
be brutally ripped apart by fate and becoming the victims of an
uncaring and selfish Shah with great ambitions.

What the book brilliantly shows is Rob Coles utter desire and maybe the
need to become the best healer he can be. He goes so far to let
everything potentially good in his life go if it can't help him achieve
that goal and he sacrifices much and endures so much hardship before
finally achieving that goal.

This movie doesn't show that much.. we jump through his young years,
skip by the trip to Isfahan during which he meets the love interest and
then just inexplicably gets admitted to the academy even though he has
no credentials, no schooling, money or anything else to warrant that.
He just gets beaten up for having the audacity to apply with nothing to
show and through luck Ibn Sina himself takes care of his wounds and
bang! New Student! What really struck me as negative was the portrayal
of fanatical islamism. While that exists in the book it is nowhere near
as central to the story.. it just shows the power struggles between the
more worldly Shah and the fanatical Mullahs in which Rob and his
friends get caught up. Here we have so many scenes of a Mullah
preaching to his people about the evils happening at the academy and by
the Shah which are against Allah according to him and it only
intensifies to a point that it became painful to watch because it
painted them in such a bad light that it became a sad caricature.

I don't know why it was so highlighted that they felt the need to
insert these additional scenes and i don't want to insert current socio
political themes in this review but all these scenes could have been
cut down and the time better used.

So i just can't recommend this movie at all.. it falls flat on the main
theme to portray a person driven like a madman to become the best
healer possible only to get enveloped in local power struggles. The
basics are there but they just feel cobbled together without any
thought to the book or what it wants to show.
<|_=00=_|>
I am very disappointed at the negativity surrounding this film. I
always believe that when you have a read a book that is made into a
film, you have to look at them as separate works of art. This film is,
in its own rite, a beautiful story told with superb acting. I was
entertained and captivated throughout the entire film, which tells the
tale of a young boy who is driven to become a physician after watching
his own mother pass away before his eyes.

Rob Cole goes through an epic journey to become the best physician he
can possibly be, traveling to far away lands that he had previously
never heard of or dreamed up in his wildest dreams. He creates
friendships but also has to maintain the facade that he is a Jew in
order to gain access to the most prestigious medical school in the
world at the time, under the Persian Ibn Sina. In Persia, he becomes
rapped up in a religious struggle but wants, more than anything else,
to continue to develop his skills as a physician.

I was equally blown away by the beautiful costumes and brilliant screen
settings, which were only to be topped by the superb acting of Tom
Payne, who plays Rob Cole.

Please, ignore the negative reviews of this film. Do yourself a favor
and enjoy a beautiful work of cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Eleventh Century, in England, the mother of the boy Rob Cole has
side sickness (appendicitis) and he foresees her death when he touches
her. The orphan Rob is alone and he follows a traveling barber-surgeon
(Stellan Skarsgård) that teaches him how to cure the needy. When the
barber is blind with cataract, Rob Cole seeks out a Jewish physician
that recovers the barber's vision.

Rob Cole decides to learn medicine with the famous Ibn Sina (Ben
Kingsley) in the distant Persia. Along his one-year journey, Rob makes
a circumcision on himself and changes his name to Jesse Ben Benjamin,
posing of Jewish to be accepted by Ibn Sina's school in Isfahan.
Further he falls in love with Rebecca (Emma Rigby) that is traveling to
Isfahan in the same caravan to get married in a marriage of
convenience. Jesse learns medicine with Ibn Sina while he performs
forbidden experience with a corpse and has sex with Rebecca. When the
mullahs betray the Shah Ala ad-Daula (Olivier Martinez) to the Seljuk,
the lives of Ibn Sina, Jesse and their friends are deeply affected. 

"The Physician" is one of the best adventures of 2014. The saga of
gifted Rob Cole in his pursue for the knowledge of medicine in a
primitive Middle Ages in Europe. Ben Kingsley is perfect as usual in
the role of a wise scientist limited by the religion to explore his
knowledge. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "O Físico" ("The Physicist")
