
First, let me say that Eastwood's direction, Cooper's acting and the
screenplay are all competent. Were this film a wholly fictional account
of a warrior with special skills put in the service of his comrades it
would be quite serviceable, though no more than that.

However, here was an opportunity to show the complexities of a man
hailed as an American hero; and by complexities, I mean the thoroughly
odious aspects of Chris Kyle's character. The man enjoyed killing
people, regarding his targets as savages, and he bragged about killing
looters in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina - even if he didn't,
because we don't know for certain, what kind of man declares proudly
his murderous inclinations? In short, he was far from a good man.
Dismally, you would never know this from the simple-minded depiction of
him as an all American Hero in Eastwood's film.

Likewise, there is not a shred of awareness in the film that the US
involvement in Iraq might have been illegal and was certainly
catastrophic for the Iraqis. The film's approach is to display every
Iraqi man, woman and even child as intent on murdering "good" American
troops and therefore deserving of their fate, both at the end of Kyle's
rifle and under the boot of American troops generally.

I don't know what Eastwood was thinking when he made this film. Perhaps
he saw an easy way to make money by appealing to the misplaced
patriotism of some Americans. What I do know is that this is a
disgusting film.
<|_=00=_|>
When American Sniper first came out I ignored the film thinking that it
was the usual war propaganda Hollywood delivers once a year. 

After it received a couple of Oscar nominations I got a little curious
and decided to go watch it. I am a big of Clint Eastwood and appreciate
most of his work as a director, I am aware of his right-wing views and
as I sat down in the theatre I was expecting a very patriotic story on
the war in the Middle East.

But what I got was 2 hours of pure biased war propaganda. The story is
supposed to be about a war hero, but what we get is a ruthless southern
who kills "bad guys" because he saw some terrorist attacks against his
country on TV. Not once are the his intentions questioned by either the
character himself or others. The entire film just follows a one-track
minded perspective on a "just" war. There is no morale to the story,
there are no grey areas where the viewer is allowed to have an opinion
and decide for himself what is right and what is wrong. 

Now if this was satire, it would have been brilliant. The story of a
redneck cowboy who after seeing some footage on TV about terrorist
attacks decides he needs to protect his country by enrolling in the
Navy and killing 150 people over 5000 miles away from where he lives,
and without the slightest hesitation. But unfortunately it was not.

It is actually quite sad to see how low American cinema has stooped.
The fact that people might actually believe this crap (and most
Americans do) makes me lose hope for the future of a once great
country.

There was a time when Hollywood war movies raised important questions
on the righteousness of war (such as Full Metal Jacket, Thin Red Line,
Apocalypse Now) where the viewer was given the clear picture that all
war, justified or unjustified, is wrong.

Nowadays most war movies are just commercials to get the American
public behind the idea that invading a foreign country is a God given
right.

The fact that it got nominated for the Academy Award just shows how
much a once acclaimed award is quickly becoming a pat on the shoulder
to the most politically correct motion picture of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Make no mistake. This film is not about recording history. It's about
making money.

This film opens with two fatherly lessons being taught to a young Chris
Kyle: 1) How to kill a deer. 2) The world is made up of three kinds of
people; sheep (people who can't/wont' fight), wolves (evil people), and
shepherds (those who slay the evil people). then 9/11 - Kyle assumes
the mantle of the "shepherd" - and by default, if you are not him, or
like him, you are a wolf - then Iraq...

Kyle, Bible in hand, and tens of thousands of other wrongly informed
American soldiers like him, go to Iraq to fight civilians in their
living rooms and on their streets, because they were told that Sadam
Hussian helped Al Qaida and was going to drop a bomb on us. None of
which was true and the administration knew it. Period. Even before the
March 2003 invasion of Iraq their claims of "yellowcake uranium from
Niger" and "the smoking gun that could come in the form of a mushroom
cloud" were THOROUGHLY discredited. Yes, discredited BEFORE the
invasion. Google "Nigerian embassy burglary/forged documents/Italian
magazine/rocco martino". 

The lack of self examination in this film regarding the war in Iraq is
as disturbing as it is staggering. American citizens and soldiers were
told that the necessity for this war was "nuclear weapons". That was
later amended to WMD (chemical and biological weapons). All of which,
the truly evil dictator denied having. We invaded anyway. And after the
invasion none were found. The Bush administration conducted two
exhaustive investigations (with their own hand picked investigators)
into Iraq's WMD program and the results from the Kay/Duelfer report in
2004!!! were: "Saddam ended his nuclear program in 1991. ISG found no
evidence of concerted efforts to restart the program. Iraq destroyed
its chemical weapons stockpile in 1991, and only a small number of old,
abandoned chemical munitions were discovered by the ISG." "Some" found
those facts to be inconvenient, so the next reason for fighting Iraqis
changed to "deposing a brutal dictator," (We should know. We armed him
in the '80s) "shutting down his torture and rape rooms, and spreading
European style democracy across the Middle East." Meanwhile Saudi
Arabia, a dictatorial monarchy run by kings, was the breeding ground
for the 19 hijackers who pulled off the worst attack, on U.S. soil, in
history on 9/11. And American soldiers are sent to fight for a lie with
unexamined motives surrounding religion and patriotism. 

Clint Eastwood has made some bizarre public appearances in recent
years. But here, with this film, he seems well past his shelf life by
papering over every shred of truth surrounding the worst foreign policy
disaster in American history with his giant pant load, "American
Sniper". Many brave soldiers put their lives and limbs on the line and
lost both. They deserve better than to be hemmed into the Iraq War
fable centered on a dubious character like Chris Kyle. The
sheep/wolves/shepherd, Bible, 9/11, fight 'em there, jingos all packed
together create a disturbing narrative that what the U.S. did in Iraq
was a good and just thing, and that Chris Kyle was an unproblematic
protector. The truth is more complicated and less flattering. 

Here are three statements Kyle made about the Iraqis: 1) "I wondered,
how would I feel about killing someone? Now I know. It's no big deal"
2) "Savage, despicable evil. That's what we were fighting in Iraq.
That's why a lot of people, myself included, called the enemy
'savages'. I only wish I had killed more." 3) "You do it until there's
no one left to kill. That's what war is. I loved what I did I'm not
lying or exaggerating to say it was fun."

Here are three lies Chris Kyle told without shame or conscience: 1)
That he shot and killed two carjackers in Texas in 2009. 2) That he
punched Jesse Ventura in the face at a Navy Seals reunion. 3) That he
was stationed atop the Superdome during Hurricane Katrina and shot 30
American citizens to death. 

Chris Kyle is not, in real life, a one dimensional character/hero. He
does, however think in one dimension. We know that because he writes in
his book, "It's black and white. I don't see much gray." In fact this
film, who's stated message is one of shepherds, sheep, and wolves,
unwittingly invites the question as to whether we really know which is
which. And if "American Sniper" becomes an anthem to the Iraq war it
will become one more tragedy, piled atop a greater tragedy, piled atop
9/11. It is bad enough that it happened. It would be even worse to
carve this propaganda into stone. Chris Kyle is entitled to his world
view even if it's divorced from reality. His world view, however, is
not "the world". It's just the way he sees it. 

It is unnecessary to get into the merits of a film so completely devoid
of truth. The Iraq war was waged for the financial gain of the oil,
gas, and defense, industries. Iraq had no WMD, was not a threat to this
country, and did not become a democracy. This lie of a film was made
for the same bloody money that the war was waged for. In my IMDb review
of "Birth of a Nation" (an homage to the institution of slavery) I
wrote, and will repeat here, "it is beside the point whether or not
this film is good. It is an homage to something evil and therefore it's
merits, as a film, are irrelevant." Whether "American Sniper" is a good
film (In my opinion, plastic baby and all, it's no better than average)
is beside the point. It is based on an unexamined life and is as big a
blight on filmmaking as the invasion of Iraq was on humanity.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that "American Sniper" has portrayed the true
face of Americas great brainwashing weapon called "Hollywood".

As in the movie "Inglourious Basterds" where Dr Goebbels, Reich
Minister of Propaganda in Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945, has been
given a right to direct a movie for Fuhrer himself, a national pride
performance which depicts a war hero, German Sniper killing 300
"enemies" in three days. Now switch the roles with Clint Eastwood as a
director, Fuhrer as a Americas high elite of nowadays, and Nazi Sniper
as an American Sniper Chris Kyle.

A big irony this movie is, and as such it shows how much effort will
American Movie Industry give in order to brainwash its own people.

Pathetic.
<|_=00=_|>
"American Sniper" is one of the worst movies I have ever been forced to
endure. It is simplistic propaganda masquerading as an award-worthy
story. There is no story.

American kid Chris Kyle is good at shooting so he uses 9/11 as an
excuse to join the Navy SEALS and kill Iraqis. That's it. That's the
whole movie. Clint Eastwood's one-dimensional direction shows Chris as
some sort of American hero, even though any sane human will at least
question the cold-blooded murder of men, women & children in a morally
ambiguous war. I'm still not sure how Iraq was responsible for 9/11.

Clint tries to humanize our hero by tacking on a subplot about Chris's
wife, but this storyline- like the rest of the movie- has NO conflict.
Chris meets his prospective wife at a bar, dates her, marries her,
impregnates her and starts a family with no trouble whatsoever. Why are
we watching this? In the meantime our hero goes back to Iraq to blow
the brains out of more women and children, and he doesn't seem to lose
any sleep over his work.

Back home Chris gets accosted in a Jiffy-Lube by a fellow veteran, and
the sequence plays more like a romantic meeting than a heartfelt
tribute, as the appreciative vet stares at Chris with moist, dewy eyes
while licking his lips. Either way, Kyle is unmoved and displays no
emotion. Why are we watching this again?

Sienna Miller as Chris' wife cannot stop touching her belly to remind
us that she's preggers. The straps of her fake pregnant belly are
visible beneath her bra straps. At one point she hands Chris their
child and it is very obviously a lifeless, motionless doll. Why are we
watching this?

If you're looking for any type of character development you won't find
it here: Chris Kyle is portrayed as a killing machine without any
discernible personality. A fellow officer raises the question of why
Chris carries a Bible. "I've never seen you open it," he says, and the
issue is dropped there. Does Chris believe in God? Does he not? There
is no internal life whatsoever.

Bradley Cooper does his best to instill this cardboard cutout of a
character with some depth, but all he manages to do is say "Um" in a
Southern drawl before he speaks every line to remind us that he is
indeed from Texas. He meets his brother at an airport and the scene is
a crime against acting: there is no connection, no exchange, no
conflict. Suddenly Chris decides he wants to come home from the war and
stop killing people. He does. Then he is killed by a fellow soldier and
Eastwood leaves us with TV footage of the real Chris Kyle's funeral:
six SUV's driving down the road while a couple people hold signs. Why?

Why was this movie made? What is it supposed to say? Why is this man
special, or significant, or evil, or great? Why are we supposed to care
about any of this? Why are we watching this? 

The good news is: you don't have to.

GRADE: D-
<|_=00=_|>
it was extremely 'even'. nothing seemed overplayed. well balanced
storytelling. as someone else wrote, best war movie i've seen in
years...and while we're at it, best clint movie in a few outings, as
well... i agree that the ending is a bit sudden. but there was no
reason to drag it out, either... i don't feel it lingered on any one
dynamic of what would be expected from a film like this...not TOO much
violence or proselytizing/flag waving or lingering on casualty
horrors... it doesn't, on the other hand, turn away from any of the
ugliness, either... i thought bradley cooper did a great job in the
role. the changes he gradually instilled into the character were subtle
but present. it's as well done a war movie as i'll ever need.
<|_=00=_|>
Good work on Bradley Cooper's part as well, putting on the weight and
getting into character to play Chris Kyle, a sniper for the navy seals
who did four tours in Iraq protecting his fellow troops by being a
legendary shot. the Movie explores Kyle having to deal with a rival
sniper who was keeping him from doing the job of protecting his troops
and having to deal with coming home to his wife and kids feeling that
his mission was incomplete. 

Old man Eastwood mixed action, drama and humor in a way only a
legendary filmmaker could put together. The man still has the ability
to tell a compelling story.

Bradley Cooper showed a range that is more Oscar worthy than what he
did in Silver Linings Playbook. 

It was nothing but enjoyable from beginning to end. Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I spent 27 years in the US Army, was in Operation Desert Storm (the
original), was vehemently opposed to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
and thought this movie was one of the best military/war movies I've
ever seen. The realism was there, Bradley Cooper was phenomenal, the
angst of a soldier during battle was portrayed brilliantly, the
decisions we ask kids to make are real and they were realistically
shown on screen, and as this film makes clear--war isn't a walk in the
park. Anybody who thinks Bradley Cooper is a flash in the pan is sadly
mistaken; this guy is the real thing. Martin Sheen in Apocalypse Now,
Charlie Sheen in Platoon, and now Bradley Cooper in American Sniper.
You've got to go all the way back to Gregory Peck in Pork Chop Hill or
George C. Scott in Patton to get even close to an actor that gave a
better performance in this genre. I saw it twice. Couldn't get through
it the first time and had to walk out- -I got so damned furious at
George Bush, Dick Cheney, and Donald Rumsfeld for murdering all these
innocent kids I couldn't watch anymore. Once I got past that I went
back to see it again and trust me--it's phenomenal.
<|_=00=_|>
My Thoughts:

You would think that we would get tired of these war movies depicting
life over in Iraq and Afghanistan but when they come together in a
movie this good it is easy to see why we keep coming back for more.
This is easily one of Clint Eastwood's best directed movie. And then we
come to Bradley Cooper, he has always been a face in Hollywood but I
think this movie shows that he has some serious acting chops. I know he
was a Hollywood A lister before but this movie shows that he is more
than just a pretty face to look at when he is on screen. I would like
to see him in more of these drama type roles. Even though I did like
him as Rocket from Guardians of the Galaxy.

We follow Chris Kyle's life starting with a brief glimpse of how he
grew up and what he did before joining the Navy and the SEALs. We then
follow Chris through Basic Underwater Demolition/SEALs (BUDs) training.
To him finding and marrying Taya (Sienna Miller). But what this movie
really focuses on is the time Chris Kyle spends between four tours of
duty in Iraq to the time spent between them at home. Chris seems to
thrive while over in Iraq, he is in his element and knows what needs to
get done. Chris is in a war between himself and an Iraqi Sniper that
wants the glory of taking down the Legend that Chris Kyle has become
over there. When at home though he is faced with a family he barely
knows and trying to get reacquainted with them, too dealing with the
mundane day to day life.

I am sure there is some things that the movie doesn't portray correctly
be it due to the missions still being classified or to wanting to
protect some of those people that are still active and out there
protecting us. But the movie does capture what it is to be a man going
off to fight a war in another country and then trying to come home and
dealing with not only with your day to day life but also trying to put
behind the war. Luckily in this day and age Veterans do have avenues to
get help and work through it. And Chris once he got his feet under him
was an advocate of trying to help those returning Veterans get a hold
on reality and get back to living that normal life they had before
going of to war.

This movie is an emotional roller-coaster and is going to take you on a
journey. So be prepaid to have your heart strings pulled and maybe a
Kleenex or two with you when you see this. Especially if you are like
me and did not know Chris Kyle's story before seeing this movie.

My Recommendation:

A Must See.
<|_=00=_|>
The movies is about Chris Kyle's home life and military career with the
US Navy as a SEAL sniper. The movie has some intense moments,
containing violent and disturbing scenes. The movie doesn't portray
Chris as a Rambo figure but rather a man that deals with the problems
all soldiers have to face both overseas and at home. Clint Eastwood who
is in his mid-eighties, shows us he still has it, directing an amazing
film. The movie tells Kyle's story the way he told it in the first
book. Overall, American Sniper is a great movie that has all the
components, that make a movie great. For anyone who is a war film
enthusiast, this is a movie for you. To those who call Chris Kyle a
murderer and baby killer, I believe you fail to understand what
soldiers sacrifice to protect our liberties and keep us free.
