
I am no real movie reviewer, just a guy who loves watching good movies!

My first ever review for any IMDb movie. But I have been here looking
up movies for years.

I seen some reviewers underrate this. Which is why I decided to let
people know what an average everyday person thinks of this movie It
deserves more credit than what it has been given.

I myself thoroughly enjoyed it! The time went by too fast. I could not
keep my eyes off the screen lots of action, fantastic car chases. I was
on the edge of my seat the entire time. 

I love Ben Kingsley and Anthony Hopkins and to see both in one movie at
the same time was very exciting and For Myself personally thought they
did very well. Nicholas Hoult did a great job too.

I know this is no major movie like silence of the lambs. But it was
still a fantastic action movie. If you like action movies don't let
this one pass you by! It's very entertaining. I look forward to
watching this again one day. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Collide is very much alike Creevy's previous work, Welcome To The Punch
(2013) with additional love story between Nicholas Hoult and Felicity
Jones as plot driven. 

Casey needs money to cure his sick girlfriend, Juliette. A slick drug
dealer, Geran send him on a mission, hijack a truck that belongs to
notorious criminal, Hagen Kahl who can do anything to get rid of anyone
in his way.

Here we have two antagonists as the opposites, perfectly crafted by
Anthony Hopkins and Ben Kingsley, who are responsible to put Hoult into
a series of captivating cat and mouse action caper. At some points, i
personally start to think that Hoult is the 'real cat' here who got 9
lives to live.

Relationships between these one dimensional characters felt under
developed. Still cast members had shown what they've got to keep our
interest going.

The stages are set extremely well to pull us straight away from start
with only little time to think but somehow we already have sights on
the finish line. A twist might be explained through exposition about 10
minutes before end credits.

Well, some fluid action sequences don't just COLLIDE with fluent
storytelling. And it takes 99 minutes of running time to find out why.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw Anthony Hopkins and Ben Kingley's names attached to this
movie I thought how bad could it be? Well, it's bad. Really bad. Dumb
as a brick. Great chase sequences on the autobahns but a story that is
as lame as they come. Girl needs kidney operation so boyfriend hijacks
truck full of drugs and gangsters come after him. Endless escapes that
happen SOOOO conveniently to keep the story going. Couldn't the
producers have sprung for an extra couple of writers to punch up the
story and make it less predictable? Were Hopkins and Kingsley so
desperate for a paycheck that they were willing to stoop to acting in
this trash? Your heart bleeds for them. When I saw the movie cost
twenty one million to make I was astounded as I figured well below ten.
The distribution company that picked up this movie when the first
distributor went bankrupt should pray to God that they don't join the
first company in the bankruptcy courts. Don't hold your breath for any
solid figures at the box office. And who are the fools likening this to
the Fast and the Furious franchise? Not even close!
<|_=00=_|>
It's one of those films with aimless narration. Indeed, it has a nice
cast and characters with the basic storyline, but that did not expand
and explored well as it should have been. At least the pace of the
narration looked fine. Some characters looked unnecessary, and so a
couple of scenes. If these all were managed, then still it could have
been a decent film. Because since it is an action- adventure, they did
not generate those crucial parts like the stunts and dialogues related
to the gangster thing to turn it a better film in its kind.

The two veteran actors coming together for the first time added more
curiosity than flavour we are looking for. They did okay and so the
rest of the cast. Ideal runtime, a few stuffs were in the favour of the
film, but those were not enough for the overall success. If the same
film was made from the non-English world like perhaps Germany, which
was one of the producers of the film would have done better than this
existing one which is very familiar with this language.

People would watch it only for Hopkins and Kingley and so did am I. But
they might end in disappointment, or that could be the reason to rate
it fairly better. Whatever, this is an okay film, which is barely
entertaining and of all, not a boring film. So trying it for one is
okay, but I think not worth if you have got plenty of options over this
one.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a movie with deep meaning, a complex plot or redeeming
value but was surprisingly enjoyable. The primary characters were not
glamorous but rather down to earth which lent a certain innocence and
believability. I thought their acting was excellent and sustained the
movie through to the end. The bad guys deserve kudos. Ben Kingsley and
Anthony Hopkins played quirky drug lords which they pulled off really
well in a low key manner. These are often the most difficult characters
to pull off in a movie, often being overly done but not here. The
secondary bad guys were superbly cast and relentless in the chase which
kept the tension level high through the entire movie. Plot wise this
was a basic caper gone wrong and chase movie with a surprising twist at
the end. Wreakage and carnage on the Autobahn while extensive, was not
overdone. In fact, the chase scenes and crash scenes were really well
choreographed and not over the top or gratuitous. The only weakness was
the ending which was predictable and didn't follow through which left a
feeling of abruptness, probably forced through mandatory time
constraints. As a result, Anthony Hopkin's character and story did not
feel complete. Collide was great entertainment that didn't require deep
thought to enjoy....

Comment: the main characters were not "backpackers" but rather ex- pats
living and working in Germany. Seems to be growing tendency to refer to
anyone between 20-30 as backpackers...
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film with an open mind. I wasn't expecting much in the
way of OTT action sequences or sex and violence that is the staple for
most blockbuster-esque action films with it being a PG-13. That said it
did deliver on the action sequences. Some well shot and exciting car
chases and gun battles which kept you watching even if the plot (which
has some twists) was rather predictable at times. Essentially though it
is a love story although that is glossed over a bit too much for me.
Would have preferred a 15 rating and a bit more from the two leads. I
disagree with the other reviewer who thought Anthony Hopkins didn't
play the villain believably enough. I thought he nailed it. What was a
bit unbelievable was the lack of police support during most of the gun
battles. Are the German police really so useless? I had an overall
sense that a bit of comedy was trying to be injected into the dialogue
(especially the scenes with Hopkins and Kingsley)it did make me smile
but I fear that may not have been the intention after all. Overall an
enjoyable film that I am glad I saw. Could have been made better - yes,
could have had more depth - yes. Recommended - yes.
<|_=00=_|>
Not as bad as I was expecting. Brainless, with almost no plot
whatsoever, but still made up for an enjoyable ride. Had some inventing
camera work, but not really anything beyond generic. The action
setpieces were by the book, as were the performances. Ben Kingsley and
Anthony Hopkins are so over the top that it hurts, but the outlandish
nature of their roles still makes the film funnily watchable. A simple
and straightforward rethread of genre tropes that still ends up being,
if not worthwatching, a all and all decent film.
<|_=00=_|>
For the first thirty or so minutes of "Collide", the movie was shaping
up to be a pretty boring and familiar experience for me. The movie was
taking far too much time to set up the situation, and what was
unfolding was nothing I hadn't seen before in many other movies.

But then after those first thirty minutes, the movie takes a sudden
turn and becomes surprisingly enjoyable. All of a sudden the movie
starts delivering action and suspense, and this material is pretty well
accomplished. It is basically one scene after another of the
protagonist fighting off and/or fleeing his pursuers, but I have to
admit that the action is choreographed and directed in a way that I was
pretty pumped up. The movie also looks quite eye-catching, with its
good photography and its German backdrop that adds some freshness. 

Eventually, however, the movie makes a stumble near the very end, with
how Anthony Hopkins' drug lord character is finally dealt with, namely
in a manner that happens off-screen, cheating the viewer of seeing him
directly getting his just desserts. 

Despite this disappointing ending, and the first drab thirty minutes, I
think the movie does deliver enough entertainment in the end. It's not
a classic action movie by any means because of those aforementioned
problems, but it keeps your attention if you stick with it.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my God, I could hardly believe that such a crap could have been
made. OK, car crashes and production design besides the fantastic stunt
work are awesome. Tony Hopkins is also delightful in the heavy guy, but
if you forget this, this is an unbearable straight to garbage can
played by an even more unbearable d...head actor, a sort of handsome
sh...head blue eyes jerk, to whom you crave to blow his head of. The
kind of character who, after a car crash in which ANYONE on earth would
be killed, get out of it without even a scratch...How can a director
hope fooling the audiences? Not me anyway. I lost m precious time with
this crap and I am not surprised that the producing company bankrupted
with such nonsense. I think she could have been on a trial for making
such sh...And the question, the most important one is what the hell Ben
Kingsley did in this mess? His financial must be awful I guess...What a
pity for such a gifted actor like him.
<|_=00=_|>
In every movie there is an expectation to suspend disbelief..to an
extent. This one asks you to shut off any relations you have with
common sense or cognitive thought. Anthony Hopkins (he is fab, but over
the top) character...a real baddie, but ultra powerful, stand up
business man, famous, squeaky clean...is suddenly popping people and
brandishing a gun in a gas station..in Germany...Germany!...where there
is probably a camera or two. Like his henchman (who we assume is highly
trained & paid) thinks it is a genius idea to run around a Subway
station brandishing a gun...and shooting it in the air..in....wait for
it..Germany......AGAIN there is probably a few cameras & cops around.
Then there is the empty eyed hero...I counted 3 times in the film where
he gets lucky flailing around and grabbing something that saves him. I
was bored and watched it, felt compelled to write this....did the
Producers assume people have gotten really stupid? they had a budget
and two amazing actors. They decided to make a film about a dummy
getting chased by villains who make stupid mistakes. Instead of saying
"ok, we got the guy from Sexy Beast...let's shoot for that level"
