
When I saw the rating on IMDb it kinda put me off watching this film.
Usually anything that rates lower than a 6.0 on here is actually pulp,
IMDb works great that way. Pulp is OK every once in a while so I still
sometimes watch some of those films if I like the cast or the
storyline, however I usually draw the line at anything below 5.0 cause
it's mostly just a complete waste of time.

Made an exception for this though after seeing the cast and reading the
story outline, I thought how bad can it be, so I decided to find out.

I was pleasantly surprised, at no point was this film hard to watch or
boring to me, just an OK thriller like many others that is worth
watching even if it's not blowing your mind away. I would say it
deserves about the same rating as 'man on a ledge' or 'alphadog' or
'savages'.

Anyway maybe there's some hate in some of these reviews because of some
cast members or because it could have been better (it could) or because
it sometimes gives you an atmosphere like your watching the departed,
however then the film isn't nearly as good or it uses historical cues
like argo but it's not as good as that either...all that doesn't take
away from my opinion that it's still an interesting story to watch with
generally decent acting.

7 out of 10 to boost the rating a bit, would give it more like a 6.5
myself.
<|_=00=_|>
Suitable for late night television only. Too slow and too boring. Don't
pay money to watch this. There's a lot of potential, though. The story
is actually quite interesting and the acting is not half bad. However,
the potential is never unleashed, unfortunately.

I gave up on this flick when I noticed that Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson
was wearing a brand new, present day digital Casio G-Shock watch. He
was wearing it throughout the entire movie, although the story is set
in the eighties, more than 30 years ago!

This little flaw illustrates the ambitions of both the actor, the crew,
the director and also the overall quality of the movie very well, in my
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Empire State is a very bad movie because it is based on a super weak
unrealistic script. It may have roots in a true event but so much
changed that it has become the biggest travesty.

If you can temporarily completely suspend your disbelief and lower you
IQ to 40 or less then maybe you can enjoy it, otherwise the probability
is you'll ask yourself if the screenwriter is openly making fun of the
audience or God forbid if he is completely retarded.

- Tens of millions of dollars (probably hundreds of millions of today's
money) are kept in an unsecured warehouse guarded by a single untrained
unchecked guard.

- Chris potamitis steals money but apparently money in the warehouse is
never checked. Then he goes on a shopping spree with his totally
idiotic retarded brother Eddie in a hip club in town, people are
wondering how in hell he's got so much money to spend, Eddie clearly
says in front of 3 girls that his brother stole the money where he
works but of course everybody get away with this.

- His brother is obviously so retarded that any sane person would never
ever have talked about a robbery plan with him.

- A highly unrealistic robbing takes place at exactly the same day and
time as planned by the 2 brothers: what are the odds? Assuming this was
possible one can only assume that the robbery was prepared with
internal help. The cops have to assume it. The brothers have to assume
it. The company has to assume it and all should change their plans
accordingly.

- But nope, the depository does not seem to think it has to increase
the guard count and take additional measures even temporarily.

- Main cop Ransome notices main character when his partner dies. Then
during the failed robbery attempt by strangers he sees Chris Potamitis
calling someone on the phone but there are no reasons to become highly
suspicious right? - Shortly after that the alarm rings again during
Chris' watch, and of course nobody is concerned that it is the second
time in a row that the alarm rings during Chris watch, that it also was
during his watch that a robbery attempt took place and that his partner
was shot while touring with Chris. Frankly it is really strange that
Chris hasn't been name president & CEO yet.

- 9 million dollars are taken, there is a huge hole in the ceiling, the
robber had to have the code or someone knowing the code had to open the
door but no problem, Chris can go home and doesn't spend a second at a
precinct.

- It's the biggest heist in US history but apparently it's not enough
to check employee cars trunks. Also, only a genius would hide the money
in the trunk of his brother's car trunk right? Because he knows for
certain that the least suspicious robbers are employees right? - The
cop is in his car, watching the 2 brothers arguing about what is in the
car's trunk. He was suspicious enough to follow them but he isn't
suspicious enough to run & go see what's in the trunk and confront
them.

- You are a drug dealer. You hear about the heist of the century for 8
million dollars. A few days' later 2 low life losers come and want to
purchase for 8 million of drugs. Are you A. suspicious or B. so happy
you just go the biggest order in the history of drug dealing? Are you
A. Taking the money and congratulating yourself or B. Try to rob they
guys that got you 8 mil? - You just did the heist of the century. You
A. Keep incriminating drawings in your locker for the fun of it or B.
try to be as discreet as possible? - You just did the heist of the
century. You A. lay low for a few years or B. think you will be the
next big thing in drug dealing and buy drugs? - I could go on and on
but you get the drill. Too bad there are decent actors there. If you
want to see a decent movie about a true heist go see 11.6. -
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the worst heist movies I have ever seen.
Usually I just try to go with the flow since it's just a movie. But the
really dumb aspects of this movie just really becomes overbearing after
a while. It does start out okay, with some decent acting. It even has a
good cast, although only one of them seemed to be actually trying.
After viewing it though, it just seemed like a movie where the actors
just came together in order to make a few quick bucks. The writer of
this movie did a horrendous job, I am not sure if they intentionally
decided to make a bad movie for the audiences to roast upon. But I got
zero enjoyment out of this and got really boring and slow really really
quickly. None of the characters are likable or even interesting.
Watching this movie just made me angry, it's not even a okay way to
pass the time even if you have nothing to do. Just pass on this one,
there are better heist movies out there. Heck there are way better
straight to DVD movies out there.

2.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The movie begins with catching scenes and interesting plot, but then
everything goes from bad to worse. Randomly put scenes, boring
characters, too *realistic* representation of the 1980-ies and
detectives that don't see the clues even if you poke their eyes with
the obvious.

There are no action scenes, no comedy scenes, just some boring
backgrounds with randomly placed actors talking to each other with much
development of the story.

If you have time to lose and want to see the gangster's side of the
epoch, watch, else better skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
In this movie there's a really annoying guy who is kind of like Edward
Norton's little brother or something. The only reason you won't abort
the movie is because you want to see him die and you keep watching to
see "Is he going to die? I hope he dies so I can turn this movie off"
Also you hope for the Rock to show up but he doesn't. He has 5ish
minutes of screen time and the rest of the time my fists are clenched
as I try to literally summon the power of Goku and go super saiyan
doing a kamehameha that could destroy the world itself because it would
be worth it to end this movie. Liam Hemsworth fans, you can still watch
this because the whole movie is just looking at him doing nothing. So
either watch this or buy a poster and look at it for hour and a half,
same thing. Still this movie was better than Iron Man 3. One star.
<|_=00=_|>
(Credit IMDb) A drama centered on two childhood friends who plan to rob
an armored car depository, and the NYPD officer who stands in their
way.

I've seen a lot worse when it comes to STD movies, but this just wasn't
all that interesting in the whole scheme of things. For a true story,
you would think more effort would be necessary. My main problem with
Empire State is how bland it is. It doesn't have that much action what
so ever, and it lacks the emotional punch needed for a film of this
magnitude, and the cast just simply isn't up for the challenge. I
garnered no emotional stimulus between Chris (Liam Hemsworth) & Michael
Angarano (Eddie) because not only did the film not make me care about
their fates, but their performances were rather poor. Liam Hemsworth is
not lead material, and made for a very boring lead. He also felt
miscast, and forced in the lead role. Michael Angarano isn't much
better. He grated my nerves with his wise-ass character, and I felt
like smacking that smug look off his face. His chemistry with Hemsworth
was off as well. Dwayne Johnson is criminally wasted in this movie as a
detective. Whenever he appeared on screen, my interest level was raised
significantly, but that was much too seldom for my liking. Dwayne has a
gift when it comes to charisma, and the fact that he has such a small
role here is incorrigible. He was far too good to have such a small
part in this movie. Emma Roberts is barely in this movie, aside from a
few pointless scenes. We get scattered clips in the beginning and the
end of the real life events that took place, but it didn't matter much
to me. 

Final Thoughts: A rather mundane account of a true story. I'm not gonna
tell you to avoid it, but don't expect riveting entertainment. It's not
a very good movie, and it went straight to DVD for a reason. 

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
"It's been reported that over 9 million dollars were taken in last
night's heist."

Empire State surprisingly begins with a lot of promise. The beginning
of the film sets the right mood and tone with an incredible 80's vibe
bringing out some nostalgic memories. It had the right look and some
interesting characters and the story is based on true events of one of
the largest heists in American history. I thought I was going to enjoy
this criminal thriller, but about half hour into the movie everything
began to go downhill. Dwayne Johnson and Emma Roberts who were on the
cover of the film are only supporting characters who get very little
screen time. You begin to see characters come in and out of the story
without any real purpose (Nikki Reed barely has a meaningless cameo in
this). The true lead actors in Empire State are Liam Hemsworth and
Michael Angarano, and their characters are portrayed in such a light
that we are supposed to sympathize with these guys, but that never
happens. Director, Dito Montiel (whose previous work include Fighting
and The Son of No One both starring Channing Tatum), never manages to
engage the audience with the film and it's disappointing because he had
some talented actors and a great premise to work with. Overall the
ending is probably the weakest and laziest part of the film after
having a somewhat interesting buildup. The script was written by Emmy
Award winning writer, Adam Mazer (You Don't Know Jack), and this is
probably his weakest film. Montiel hasn't had much success in his
films, but somehow he always manages to work with a high profile cast;
if he doesn't do something different he is going to have a short career
as a director. 

The film is based on a true story about a heist that took place at
Empire State armored truck company. Chris Potamitis (Liam Hemsworth) is
a young kid who dreams of becoming a cop in order to help his family
out. Unfortunately due to an incident that took place a few years ago
with his best friend, Eddie (Michael Angarano), he is rejected by the
Police Academy and is denied the test. Chris has to settle for working
as a security guard at an armored truck company which doesn't pay much.
To make matters worse, his partner is killed at a heist and the company
doesn't pay the insurance for his family. Upset by this, Chris decides
to steal a small amount of money from the company in order to help them
out. He tells his friend Eddie about this and Eddie thinks it's a good
idea to steal the millions of dollars that are stacked at this place
with little security. Along with some other small time criminals, they
plan to take it all, but they have to be careful because NYPD, James
Ronsone (Dwayne Johnson) is hot on their trail. They will also have to
watch out for the big mafia criminals who wouldn't appreciate a heist
taking place in their area without their knowledge. Stealing the money
might not be such an easy task as Eddie and Chris believe it to be. 

Emma Roberts, Jerry Ferrara, Chris Diamantopoulos, and Michael Rispoli
all play very small roles in this film. This is Dwight Johnson's fifth
film of 2013 but this is by far his smallest and most forgettable role.
Liam Hemsworth doesn't have what it takes to be a lead and so it was
very hard to care for these characters and what was going on. The
premise was promising, but somehow they couldn't create a decent
criminal thriller that would engage the audience. It is a shame because
this story could have been told so much better and some of the actors
could have been used better. Overall I enjoyed the 80's vibe and the
nostalgic feeling the first 30 minutes gave me reminding me of all the
films I watched as a kid during that time. The last hour is so messy
that it just ruined everything. The characters are completely one
dimensional and cardboard copies and the film is completely
predictable.
<|_=00=_|>
Chris Hemsworth is Chris Potamitis, the eldest child of a Greek
immigrant family living in America who thirsts for greater purpose in a
world of crime, thuggery and greed. 

Always at his side is his stereotypically loud-mouthed, crass mate
Eddie, who does not understand why Chris would want to aspire to bigger
things. Eddie's attitude reflects that of his struggling family who are
constantly bogged down in poverty and surrounded by negativity. 

As Chris struggles to do good in the world, he finds himself knocked
down a peg when his partner is killed during a robbery after he takes a
security guard job, and Chris is once again thrust into a world of
crime as he tries to make something out of the situation he's in,
eventually leading to greater and more dangerous repercussions than he
could imagine.

There's lots of potential in Empire State, and all the elements of a
good thriller are here. The trailer certainly set the stage for a grand
drama. Unfortunately, this film is less than the sum of its parts. All
of the necessary ingredients are in the recipe, but they are delivered
without any real bang. Set pieces fizzle, and the tired American
stereotypes tested my patience. There are twists that will peak your
interest and there is some good character development on Hemsworth's
behalf, but it all feels rather unambitious. The narrative never takes
the time to slow down crucial moments and transitions from scene to
scene of fast-talking Latin-Americans. Visually, the 80s have been
better depicted in many other films. Some care and passion in the
production process would have created a better product. 

Worth the price of admission? Hard to say. It's easy to enjoy if you're
not too critical, but there are much better offerings both in the genre
and from 2013.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 80's, in New York, Chris Potamitis (Liam Hemsworth) had dreamed
on joining the police academy but his best friend Eddie (Michael
Angarano) destroyed his dreams being caught by the police with
marijuana together with him. Chris is hired by the Empire State Company
to work as security guard in an armored truck with the driver Tony
(Michael Rispoli). When Tony is murdered in a heist and the Empire
States does not pay the insurance to the widow, Chris decides to steal
money from the depository to give to her. Chris comments with Eddie,
who is a lowlife and bigmouth person, the fails in the security system
of the Empire State and Eddie plots a scheme with another smalltime
criminal to steal the money from the depositary. The FBI agents do not
believe that two morons like Eddie and Chris could have planned the
heist but the experienced Detective Ransome (Dwayne Johnson) follows
his instincts to solve the case.

"Empire State" is movie apparently based on a true story with one of
the most unpleasant and irritating characters of the cinema history,
the loser Eddie. Consequently the performance of Michael Angarano is
top- notch. On the other size, Chris Potamitis is shown as a naive and
quite innocent victim of the heist but it is hard to believe in this
character. Therefore, despite the good performances, the screenplay is
badly written and waste the good cast. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
