
I think some people are expecting WAY too much out of this movie. It's
a kids movie which has a lot of appeal for adults. It's one of the more
appealing kids movies I've seen in years. It's definitely geared more
towards the 8-12 crowd, rather than younger kids' movies (like
Despicable Me, which is also great). The language is a bit course at
points, but nothing too bad.

I read all these horrible reviews and was not looking forward to it,
but it was SO entertaining! I was worried that it would be another
crappy Adam Sandler movie (I like him, but he has definitely had some
real bombs). But he did NOT try to hijack the entire movie like some
people suggest. He shared the screen well with the other actors.

Sure, Kevin James was a strange choice as president but, again, IT'S A
KIDS MOVIE! While some adults can't handle the package delivery guy
from King of Queens being president, most of the target audience
probably doesn't even know who he is. And he is NOT playing some
bumbling doofus like in Mall Cop. He successfully pulls off the role of
a president who is stuck in a video game and I cannot imagine anyone
else doing a better job.

All in all, the movie was very entertaining (better the the Minions
movie I took the kids too last month--snore...). How do you NOT enjoy
seeing Pacman gobbling up cars and people like dots on the streets of
New York City. Each game was parodied just the right amount. I wouldn't
have wanted 90 minutes of any one video game, but I think they are
successful in giving you just enough of each video game "battle" to
keep in interesting and not boring. 

It's exciting enough for kids that aren't familiar with the old- school
games, but gives some nostalgia (and some subtle grown-up humor) to
keep the adults entertained.

Sure, no one is going to win an Academy Award for this film, but it is
funny, entertaining and an enjoyable way to spend an hour and 45
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm really not quite sure what the film critics were expecting from
this film. It's a movie about a video game apocalypse starring Adam
Sandler. What in the world were they expecting? Citizen Kane? The
Godfather? 

The problem with these so-called film critics today is that they're
impervious to accepting anything at face value. I believe it got such
awful review from critics because it starred a lot of big name actors
and maybe they expected more substance from them; but you have to look
at the source material before making those determinations. This is a
tongue-in-cheek slapstick comedy that's meant to entertain people
especially those who grew up in the 80's and can relate to the video
game evolution nostalgia of that time. If you watch this movie with
that mindset, I guarantee you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I am actually a little upset I listened to IMDb on this and
didn't see it when it first came out.

This is my ideal type of movie, a Sci-Fi - Comedy, that is family
appropriate.

This movie was very well made, graphics were great, and the story line
and characters were fun to watch and kept you involved throughout the
movie.

Its one of the few movies I have seen this year that I actually
re-watched and was still loving the movie.

Yes, if you are hoping for a curse filled / sexually derogatory
movie... you will not be happy with this.

But if your looking for a family movie that does not have dora the
explore,care bears, barbies, or CGI animals in it... this is a great
movie.

Perfect for the 20-40 somethings that played the games as kids and now
have kids of their own.

Wish they would make more movies like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Really guys, for the whole movie I've just waited and waited for the
awful part but it really never came. Yeah, it's a bit geek-ish but for
all of us born in the era of Commodore it is a great reminder of time
when games were a lot simpler but we enjoyed them on a much more basic
level. If you think about it, those games didn't really have a story
but were insanely fun and addictive. It's like basketball V Halo, both
are games but..you know what I mean. Anyway, soundtrack was great, fun
parts were not hilarious but did bring smile to my face at moments,
acting was fine for the most part, pace also...in a nutshell: I had
great fun watching this and that's all you really need to know about
it. Forget the ratings and critics. Go watch this and you won't regret
it..at least not if you were born in the 80's.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review and i really had to write it after just coming
back from watching Pixels.

I'm not going to really talk about the movie, the premise is simple,
its just a show about the old arcade games attacking the world. 

Is it fun? Hell yeah it is. 

Is it funny? Yep, sure is, is it really really funny? Not really, but
are there really really funny shows out there anymore? Nope

Is it worth your money? Yes it is. 

So look here, the show is about ARCADE GAMES ATTACKING THE WORLD, so
why take things so seriously? The people who slam this movie are going
on and on about acting, the show being not funny, lame jokes, Adam
Sandler trying to make money

Please..who makes movies not to earn money? Look at yourselves, if you
didn't enjoy yourself at this movie, you probably are taking life or
yourselves too seriously. 

The ratings are low because people enjoy arty farty movies too much? Or
they are trying to show that they are sophisticated? Movies are
supposed to be fun and this one sure is. Looking at the ratings at
rotten tomatoes epitomizes the way people think nowadays, all uptight,
trying to find a perfect movie and just plain wet blankets.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been hooked on video games, especially the classic ones, since I
played Space Invaders, Pac-Man, Dig Dug, Wizard of Wor, Frogger, Donkey
Kong (etc., etc., etc.) at the arcades from the late 70's through mid
80's, and of course on home systems afterwards. My kids have played
many of these classic arcade games on MAME and on compilation disks on
the Gamecube. We absolutely loved Wreck It Ralph, so when I heard that
there was another video game themed movie coming out, I was looking
forward to watching it.

I wasn't able to get to the theater for the first month, but then it
was showing at a local drive-in as the second feature. I went to watch
it with my oldest son, who is not quite a teen yet. We were pretty
bored by the first feature, which was a failed attempt to reboot yet
another 60's TV show. However, Pixels really captured our attention,
and we both loved the humor and the video game action.

I could have done without the reference to Martha Stewart that they put
in there, and I would have liked to see maybe 4 or 5 more classic video
games featured. I also would have liked for there to be some form of
personal appearance by the alien A.I. in charge. Overall, however, I
think it was the most fun my son and I had watching a movie this
summer, and we've watched more than a dozen. After we watched it, he
came home and played a bunch of the old video games for a few hours. I
finally bought Pac Man Championship Edition DX+.

It certainly isn't a blockbuster, but with the international box
office, it will finish at about 2.5 times its budget, so it will
ultimately be another profitable movie. Is it the greatest movie of the
year? No, but it would be a good choice for anybody who has played
classic arcade games through the mid 80's.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler is so wealthy at this point, he could about anything he
wants, very well, but no.

This movie should have been made FOR me. I am the target audience, I
grew up in the 1980s and 1990s playing these games and I WANTED to love
th hell out of this film, but this could be the worst movie of 2015. 

The video games attacking earth is a great idea, and execution of the
game characters themselves is pretty good. The movie fails at its most
basic as it is supposed to be a comedy but it's just not funny. Adam
Sandler is clearly phoning it in, Kevin James is up to his usual
antics, the clumsy fat guy, Josh Gad screams at the top of his lungs in
every scene, and even the great Peter Dinklage is not good here, though
Dinklage delivers the one laugh worthy moment in the film.

I was disappointed when I discovered that Chris Columbus directed the
movie, as he is usually really good.

This is absolutely a 2/10 production, I'm not a hater, I wanted to love
this movie so much, but the terrible execution from script to screen
was too poor to even consider this as something that I could recommend
in good faith. With a different lead actor/approach, this could have
worked in spades, but the complete lack of effort here is the true
disappointment. It's as though Adam Sandler didn't even try.
<|_=00=_|>
The film starts well with a fun look back to the 80s, and then
immediately makes its first mistake. Hollywood never learns, using a
cookie-cutter approach by implementing a coerced, annoying,
unnecessary, implausible love story between Sandler and Monaghan, and
later (Spoiler alert) an even more ridiculous one with "Ludlow" and
"Lady Lisa", who (unfortunately even at the expense of QBert)
miraculously falls in love with him and therefore opposes her makers
... downright laughable, unnecessary, coarse, boring, this is a movie
about old video games, no romantic comedy!!!!!! The generous four
points are merely for the battle against Centipede, the one against
Pacman and for casting Sean Bean and Ashley Benson (albeit her unworthy
role). In short, the film could have been great, if the makers had been
concentrating on the core story, but when Sandler and James
notwithstanding the premise do their usual BS, the bottom line is only
disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that at some point in his career Adam Sandler lost sight of
what his demographic is. Most can agree that his 90's work is pretty
good if not great - Waterboy, Billy Madison, Wedding singer. But most
of us were kids / teenagers at that point and even now in retrospect
while we realize that those films are a tad idiotic, there was still
fun to be had. But not anymore.

Pixels does not know who it's trying to reach. It has all the retro
gaming references that will appeal to the 20-30 year old, but the humor
and overall acting that might amuse a 10 year old at best. The casting,
oh god where do I even begin. First of all, stop casting beautiful
women as Adam Sandlers love interest. I mean come on - Kate Beckinsale,
Jessica Biel, Salma Hayek, and now Michelle Monaghan? But the worst
part - Kevin James as the president. Have you seen Paul Blart Mall Cop?
Exact same character. I lost it there.

I won't even get into the stupidity of the plot because that would take
ages to get through. In the end I'd say that aside from the retro
gaming scenes that some might find amusing and spark a hint of
nostalgia, there is nothing appealing in this movie. Quite the
contrary.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was hard to watch. The first 10 minutes of the movie were
slightly fun, but the rest is unwatchable. When the pixel games came to
life I liked the way they looked, but they did nothing important or
cool. It was a boring movie and in my opinion a waste of time. There
was little to none character development. The first 10 minutes of the
movie just flashed through the story of a kid that's good at video
games. There should have been more in the movie about that kid and his
friend, it was just a combination of random shots and scenes that meant
nothing. Things Just Happened for absolutely no reason, like when they
met the little boy that was in love with the girl from the game - "you
have no friends, do you ?" said the good gamer's friend - "just my
grandmother" said the lonely boy - "well you can hang out with us" said
the gamer kid. What the hell was that? There was no point, no meaning
whatsoever, it just happened, that's the end of the conversation. We
know nothing about either of the characters and the movie just
continues like that's all we need to know. I'm very disappointed and
feel like I've wasted my time and I hope not a lot of people feel like
I do. That's why I'm giving this review, I'm trying to save most people
from having to watch this movie. Just don't.
