
For those who liked the play save your money and go see the play. This
film was a poor adaptation with maddening unsympathetic characters. The
extreme efforts and great acting of individuals could not make up for
the horrible script, pedophilia and rape undertones, and horrible moral
guidance. The songs are all sung in the near same tone and were poorly
integrated with the action. This is the first film in 30 years I've
wanted to throw my drink at, yell boo, and leave. I gutted out the last
of the film to give an honest review. The film was so horrible it
motivated me to open an account and review it. The premise was
interesting and brought me in. The cast kept me sitting, hoping it got
better. I can't get that time back. A very poor film for children,
annoying and maddening for adults. With plot holes and inexplicable
insertions. The cast tried their hardest and individually acted well
but the film direction, production, script, and song lyrics made for a
horrible product. The visuals were the only redeeming value. And not to
spoil but the moral lessons are questionable at best.
<|_=00=_|>
Left the theater I just could not take the pain. Many others left as
well Reading the reviews I am stunned at the number of positive
reviews. Perhaps one of the worst movies I have ever seen I want those
two hours of my life back. What am I missing, wonderful cast but the
movie just dragged on and on with most songs boring at best. I did
enjoy two princes singing - that was funny, but otherwise terrible
movie. Save your money!! Cast was great but unused talent. What were
folks thinking. Tried to nap during the movie but woken up by the the
notes off key. Movie was confusing and just wandered from song to song
without an much of a connection to a story. Again, I cannot get over
how many positive reviews are out there as so many left the theaters as
did I after about two-thirds of the movie and with no end in sight.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, first of all, let me address the 1-star crowd. Yes, it's a
musical. How could you not know that it was...this musical's been
around for nearly THIRTY YEARS NOW! Ahem. Okay, yes, it has dark
elements, including references to pedophilia. THIS WAS IN THE ORIGINAL
MUSICAL! In fact, Disney toned it down severely! Horrible score? Tell
that to Sondheim - he wrote the pieces (and won awards for
them)...sigh. Some people just don't "get it".

This is the first film adaptation of "Into the Woods". Several others
had been contemplated, worked out, even started casting for, but this
is the only one that was ever completed...NOT because it was "horrible"
"awful", or whatever, but because it was such a daunting task! I
thought that this movie was a wonderful work of art that addresses a
lot of life issues (after all, Sondheim is also a noted psychologist).
Others were upset that it was a musical. Oh, boo-hoo. People are
singing their lines. How un-Disney-like.

Okay, I will agree with one point: It is NOT your typical Disney fairy
tale. Nope. Not at all. Instead, it's more true to the original
Brothers Grimm stories...let me repeat that...true to the original
Brothers Grimm...if you don't know what I'm speaking of, if you think
Snow White was about dancing dwarfs and tweeting birds, then you really
need to visit a library.

People are screaming up and down that this is most definitely NOT a
family film. Um...hello? Do you even know what "PG" stands for? It
means "Parental Guidance suggested"...this means that you, as a parent,
should decide if it's right for your child to view. In other words, BE
A PARENT! Sheesh...

Okay, enough of that.

"Into the Woods" is a musical. If you don't like musicals, don't watch
it.

"Into the Woods" is a blending of different fairy tales from their
original DARK, FOREBODING, DISTURBING perspectives. If you want
butterflies and songbirds and happily-ever-after, go watch the earlier
Disney greats.

"Into the Woods" is dark. It's creepy. It's disturbing...and it's
great. You just need to be in the proper frame of mind. I knew what I
was getting into, and I loved it. If you're expecting "heigh-ho,
heigh-ho, it's off to work we go", you aren't going to like it.

This movie isn't for everyone, true enough, but for those of us who
"get it", it's WONDERFUL!
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers, you've been warned.

OK, so I've never been a Broadway/musical fan BUT, I do appreciate a
good story when I see one. Into The Woods was not one of those good
stories. First off, the story starts off with an incredibly repetitive
and rather annoying song which is supposed to introduce the major
characters but instead turns into a montage of all the major characters
spouting the same lines with slight variations over and over again for
15 minutes too long. In reality, pretty much every song is the same
repetitive nonsense with the exception of one song sung by the two
princes which is refreshing in it provides just a little bit of humor
which is utterly lacking throughout the rest of the film. Next problem
is the lack of character development. All the characters feel shallow
and you have a hard time finding a character to be interested in and
honestly I was more interested in the damn cow for the majority of the
movie than any of the main characters. Third problem I had was pacing,
things go from 0 to 100 real fast and then it likes to hit a wall in
the form of another repetitive 15 minute song in order to completely
throw you off. Fourth problem is the really disturbing and graphic
material that somehow slipped into a PG rated film i.e., Johnny Depp's
character and the rather obvious allusion to pedophiles using candy to
lure unsuspecting children or Cinderella carelessly sicking her bird
friends on her step sisters to peck their eyes blind in some twisted
sense of revenge, the list goes on and on. And last and probably the
biggest problem I had with this film was the overall confusing plot. My
girlfriend and I spent the majority of the movie trying to figure out
exactly what was happening and just when we thought we were getting a
grip on the plot the whole movie would make a U turn and head in a
totally different direction. Characters' thoughts and actions are void
of all logic. I may just be ignorant for never having read the play but
I was utterly confused when the witch just decided she had enough of
everyone and TURNED HERSELF INTO MUD. In addition, the story makes many
really interesting connections between the characters but then simply
fails to explore those connections, the biggest for me being that
Rapunzel and the Baker are actually brother and sister. Instead of
exploring this connection the two never even come into contact with one
other nor do they actively pursue one another. What's worse is that
Rapunzel seems to play no significant role in the movie whatsoever
which is apparent when she just disappears part way through the movie
with her prince never to be seen or heard from again.

Overall, the film is incredibly boring, confusing, and at times,
disturbing, and will leave you looking for any excuse you can think of
to shuffle out of the theater in search of a movie actually worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Very disappointed. Begins good but then downhill and keeps getting
worst. At one point you may find yourself wondering if some of the long
musicals are just to fill up time. Nobody can spoil this movie since
the ending makes no sense. Seems like the ending was more about
indoctrinating kids that wrong and right don't exist. I enjoyed the
beginning and how multiple stories are integrated logically. But,
around the middle it seems like all the steam is lost and as if they
just did whatever to finish it by ming the songs longer and they just
loosing all creativity. Seriously, while the beginning had creativity
the end did not. It was as if they lost the script and began ad-libbing
everything. Not only did I not like it but my kids hatted it also. My
wife did not like it and my mother fell asleep.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie, and everything was *awesome!*...

...until Act I ends. 

Before I get to negatives, let me say the music is very faithfully
reproduced here. The singing is good (in some cases great), the acting
is good, the costumes and "sets" are also often good. Everything was in
place to make this the definitive version of Into The Woods...

...and then they threw Act II out the window. 

People unfamiliar with the musical might not notice or care about the
changes to Act II (or technically Act III), but fans of the musical
should be warned that this show is completely drained of all gravitas
and pathos. Also, several wonderful songs have been cut- it will tick
you off. 

SPOILERS FOLLOW!!!

So if you've seen the musical, you know how Act II goes. More
importantly, you know the great songs there. Well for some reason (PG
rating, perhaps), Disney has cut everything about Act II that gives the
entire show meaning. 

#1- Rapunzel does not die. This ruins the Witch's arc in Act II. No
reprise of Children Don't Listen, and the witch leaves the movie rather
abruptly in Last Midnight. And of course, Rapunzel is almost completely
pointless to the story now, since nothing bad ever happens to her and
her prince stays happily married to her, which brings me to...

#2- No second "Agony." This was my favorite song in the damn show, and
they cut it. Of course, the cut everything building up to this too- We
don't get to see the princes and their wives tire of married life, nor
do the baker and his wife, which comes to...

#3- The Baker and his wife have no troubles in Act II. There's no fall
from grace for these two- they never have to deal with a stressful
marriage. The wife only kisses the prince (no sex), and the action
leading up to that point is far from justified. Her lyrics about
"And/Or/Both" are groundless here- it's still a fun song, but there's
no reason for her to be singing it. 

#4- No Narrator. He shows up as an apparition, but does not get to sing
"no more," which is the other best song in the musical. This also
hastens the Baker's journey- while he still hits the main points of his
arc, we're denied any real struggle here. 

#5- Arguably, the entire point of the musical is missing. The stage
version breaks down "happily ever after" and teaches a real lesson
about loss and how gray the world really is. The movie...does not. 

So I can't really recommend this to fans of the musical, unless you can
accept the loss of Act II. People unfamiliar with the musical might
still enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
If I could vote -10 out of 10.. That still wouldn't be a accurate
rating for this Musical/Fantasy film. Honestly I'm not going to go into
to much detail about why this movie is beyond awful, cause honestly I'm
completely drained after seeing it and the movies soundtrack/music
torture list is still corroding my mental state 50 minutes after I left
the theater. Story, BAD..like really bad...It's almost like halfway
through the film the Director and Writer got fired and they brought
somebody else in that hadn't even seen the first half of the film.
Soundtrack...dear lord... I had to come home and throw Sweeney Todd in
to get the taste of Into the woods "Musical" out of my mouth and ear
drums, honestly my entire body ached after the film from tensing up to
every excruciating song in the film, which coincidentally all sound the
same. Acting, Meryl Streep did a great job, but even she couldn't save
the soundtrack or make sense of the jumbled story, Emily Blunt does a
great job as the comedic relief, Johnny Depp, in his very short and
minimal role on screen reminds me of a child rapist/predator who was
just released from prison and spent what little money he had on candy.
Miscast plagues the film. Special Effects.. None... Plays out like a
play/opera..nothing, absolutely zero special effects worth mentioning
which made it hard to get lost or enveloped in the world. Picture a
forest....a very generic boring forest...you have just seen 90% of this
films setting/locations. 

Go support a local theatre, opera, anything..But do yourself a favor
and avoid this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
OK...so first of all I "did" know this was a musical, and "do" like
musicals. I don't always go out of my way to watch them, but this one
looked fun for the family and I to watch. Waste of my money, waste of
my time, waste of acting talent, etc etc etc. The music was weird and
didn't make any sense. Basically rhymes for the sake of making a rhyme.
Johnny Depp seemed like he was trying to seduce Little Red Riding Hood
by getting awkwardly close to her, the strange lyrics, and weird
dancing. Plus the odd re-telling of how the girl got out of his stomach
when the baker cut her open made it seem like they were on drugs when
they wrote that scene. The only scene that was slightly enjoyable was
the Agony song, mainly because it was hilarious whether it was meant to
be or not. When the supposed ending came where everyone seemed pretty
satisfied and then everything went down hill, my wife and I looked at
each other with a "are you kidding me?" face. Things just got weirder
and weirder, and once the prince started making out with the bakers
wife we pretty much threw in the towel on the movie as a whole. My 7
year old daughter even recognized how odd things were getting and told
her Mom how weird this movie was. We just left with the disgusted
feeling that this movie actually exists in this world, and the fact
that people rate a PG movie so high when it involves so many immoral
things in one. Shame on you Disney. I hope this was a huge loss.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a musical, based on a Broadway play (no really, it's a musical). A
misrepresented boring film, how the movie could have received a green
light, just shows how little fresh ideas Hollywood has. Okay, am I
being too harsh, I'm sure there will be some enjoyable tunes,
interesting sets, adorable characters or some interesting twists on
stories that really is en vogue at this time. No, No, No, and No! 

Not one memorable song, how is that possible Stephen Sondheim! Okay
maybe it's not his fault, apparently Disney took a PG-13 to R rated
play and tried to recreate the movie as a family picture. 

Where is the millions of dollars in production values? drab, dark sets
with deficiency of most color. I wouldn't want to say that the movie
has horrible special effects, more an absence of them. 

A majority of the actors are miscast, it is literally impossible to
care about any character. The philandering prince and baker's wife are
certainly people, I would want my kids too aspire to be. By the end of
the movie, where you have dedicated over two hours of your time, you
start imagining how, if all of the characters die, maybe the movie
would make sense. 

Just stick with televisions, "Once Upon a Time", for interesting twists
on your favorite fairy tales.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely, positively HORRIBLE in every sense of the
word. I generally don't write reviews but I was so incensed by the
stupidity of this absolutely ridiculous crock o' s*** that I had to
spread the word. I don't see how this movie got any positive reviews at
all. I had high hopes because of the cast and I generally like what
Disney makes, but this was horrendous. From the first song on, it was a
disaster filled with repetitive, pointless songs that attempt to
provide moral guidance but definitely DOES NOT. This movie instead has
hints of rape, pedophilia, adultery, shitty parenting and basically
half the cast is killed off with the remaining cast not seeming to
really give a damn as it ends with the Baker starting to re- tell the
same shitty story that just happened to all of them (in which his wife
died, little red riding hood's grandma and mother died, and Jack's
mother died)... 

This movie actually got me to dislike Meryl Streep a bit, which I
thought was almost impossible. Johnny Depp was really not in it, he was
in it for maybe 5 minutes top. Chris Pines was the ONLY good thing
about this movie, and that was basically just for one of his songs
which was amusing. The actress who played the little red riding hood
was incredibly annoying and emotionless - if she had been killed off
the movie might have been decent. 

I almost walked out of this movie but stayed hoping for some kind of
salvation of the film towards the end -but NOPE! All in all, this was
ONE OF THE WORST MOVIES I'VE EVER SEEN, and I don't say that lightly.
Please don't waste your time and money, or at least consider yourself
warned.
