
(1) It just steals the E.T. plot line without much improvement. It even
steals the concept of finger touch in its poster. 

(2) The bicycle riding, and echo saved them from the truck (E.T. make
the bike flying), all too familiar. 

(3) Echo as a character is very poorly presented and developed. 

(4) The kids are not as adorable as those in E.T. 

(5) The female character is added awkwardly, almost as an afterthought. 

(6) This is the super annoying one, the found footage technique. It is
not a horror movie, can we not use this for a kid's movie? It is just
uninspiring.
<|_=00=_|>
Kids movies seem to be monopolized these days by Disney with their
numerous animated masterpieces acting as a beacon for families to flock
to the theater. Yet there are a few studios outside of the enterprise
that still dare to dream and break the mold. My review focuses on
Relativity Media's latest production of Earth To Echo, a science
fiction journey for the new age. Now from first trailers and a few
reviews, the description is pretty much a new version of E.T. with less
organic alien and more Wall-E. Yet I wanted to get a look myself at
what this feature had to answer the question: Is it really just an E.T.
knock off, or is there something more? What were my thoughts? Read on
to find out. 

In agreement with my fellow reviewers, I do agree that Echo has a lot
of similarities to Spielberg's original work. The story in particular
matches the classic tale of earthlings, in this case kids, stumbling
upon an alien life form stranded on our majestic planet. It's goal?
Merely to find it's way home and avoid harming humans in the process.
From there though, the tale becomes a patchwork of references to other
movies, whose qualities we haven't seen for some time. Now this takes
away from the originality I will agree, but I was pleased with the
integration. Movies today tend to forgo the art of story telling for
the top of the line CGI and special effects, hoping the visuals and
"action" will please the audience. Earth to Echo returns to what the
classics do though, bringing about simplistic shots and sequences and
focusing on the adventure. The simplistic journey of riding bikes into
the unknown pays tribute to E.T., while the bonds of true friendship
and enjoying the time of youth references The Goonies; both movies that
are still in high demand to this day. One gets brought into the
adventure from the first person perspective of video cameras, ala
Cloverfield, adding further depth to the movie to bring you deeper into
the tale. 

Although simplistic and predictable, the adventure is fun and
entertaining for kids and the kid at heart. It takes one back to the
days of exploring the world around you, grabbing your toys and gadgets
and creating quests from the mundane world. For reviewers like me, such
adventure is the true magic of movies, and brings fun and enjoyment
that modern films seem to lack these days. Packed into the adventure
are some deeper morals, built around the characters' problems, which
are the typical back-stories you see in most tales, i.e. neglect and
abandonment issues. These morals though are very touching, and gave me
goose bumps as the issues resolved themselves. Sure the presentation is
a bit cheesy, overdramatized with just the right music to get the
emotions going, but I still think it was well executed to drive the
point home. Those looking for twists and turns are going to be
disappointed in this film, as there are none present, which is pretty
typical for a kids movie. 

Of course with how much fun I had in the movie, there are some faults
that older fans might get caught up on. First thing is the fact of the
kid's leaving the house, which becomes completely unnoticed nor
questioned by anyone. Such negligence is rather comical, but I guess
necessary to allow for unrestricted access to the frontier. The second
weakness comes in the fact that these kids manage to travel miles of
open highway in the span of a few hours on just bicycles. Now we see
this in the tour de France, but the mileage they cover takes days not
hours. The convenient lack of cars on a major highway is something else
that is a bit stretched as well, and when it is populated no one seems
to have any concerns or hesitation to stop. A third weakness is how
easy the kids were able to get in/break in to businesses and again the
lack of questions or obstacles they had to face. Apparently everyone in
this town are idiots because the kids were able to get away with
felonies at the drop of a hat. As for the first person camera angle, it
is much more stable than some of the films, but there are a few points
where it gets dizzying, often when they are doing a panorama shot or
fleeing from the cops. Finally comes Echo, the little robot is
adorable, his squeaks and infantile design will met the hearts for most
of the people coming to this film. While a bit of a knockoff of
Wall-E's Eve, the little dude will most likely have action figures and
stuffed toys coming soon. Unfortunately you don't see much of the
little guy as the movie tends to focus on the boys and his outer shell
than the actual robot. I assume they cut his time short, to save some
money, but for a movie about a robot, well you expect a little more
screen time for their hard work. 

While Earth to Echo is not the most original movie, it takes a step
back to the art of storytelling while maintaining some technological
features. The kids they hired to act did a nice job, and all the other
mentioned elements are combined to bring one into a fun adventure.
Honestly, this may have been the first movie I've had fun seeing in a
long time. While there are some stretches here and there, and their
title star was lacking, I think this a great movie to see. 

My scores for Earth to Echo are:

Adventure/Family/Sci-Fi: 8.0 Movie Overall: 7.0
<|_=00=_|>
I really do not understand why people didn't like this.

I liked it very much. This has got to be the cutest alien I've ever
seen.

It is actually my first review because I was so frustrated to see such
low scores on this one and such hating reviews.

OK, I can understand that some people do not like the filming style but
c'mon!

And the movie had me moved as a movie should do.

So I would definitely recommend it.

Though I must say I expected it to be "deeper" is terms of meaning and
general philosophy but then again, expectations mean nothing.

So.., enjoy watching!
<|_=00=_|>
Filmed in the popular "found-footage" fashion, Earth to Echo is a
refreshingly original family film that I enjoyed as much as my kids. 

Funny with lots of heart, the movie was really well done, with great
acting from the mostly young cast. The kids acted and spoke like real
kids. Dealing with real problems like divorce, adoption, awkwardness
with the opposite sex, and having to move away from friends, there is a
lot here for the audience to relate to.

I initially thought that there wasn't a whole lot of character
development with the Echo character, but in hindsight, the movie had
little to do with Echo and more to do with the kids' journey - on their
last night together - to get Echo home.

Too often do I find myself nodding off at these kids movies. This isn't
the kid movie you think it is. Lots of action, suspense, and humor -
with an edge, yet I'm pretty sure there is no profanity...and no
violence. Here is a little gem that I fear that will get lost in the
mix of all of the other Summer blockbusters, but hopefully a little
word-of-mouth can make this a surprise hit.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really excited about this movie after watching the trailer.
Unfortunately, I think the trailer picked up the most stable of the
shots.

Although there was a strong resemblance to E.T., and I could relate to
The Goonies too a little bit, the movie got off to a good start and it
maintained the pace throughout.

Three buddies, Tuck, Alex and Munch are soon to be separated by a
construction project causing their families to move. Tuck, an amateur
videographer almost always has a camera handy and tapes all moments
with his friends. A few days before the move, all their cell phones
start behaving weirdly. Alex discovers it's a map and soon their last
night together turns into an adventure. Tuck tapes the whole adventure
and we see the story from whatever was taped (found footage).

Cons: 1. Shaky cam - I'm usually neutral to shaky cam. I know it's
supposed to be amateur footage, but why subject the audience to a
dizzying IMAX screen of shaky cam the entire length of the movie? I was
fortunately sitting in the back but I felt sorry for the people in the
front rows. If you're prone to motion sickness, do not watch this. Even
I take better videos than this with my hand-held camera.

2. Screen time of Echo - Given that the movie is about an alien, the
screen time of Echo is very less. I would have loved to see more of
Echo definitely. The departure of Echo is rather abrupt.

3. Unnecessary character - Emma was definitely a purposefully
introduced and totally unnecessary character.

Pros: 1. Good acting - By all the three kids. They did their part well.

2. Good soundtrack - I think the music plays only for a few minutes in
the movie but I liked it.

3. Good graphics - The graphics were really nice. Echo and rest of the
sequences were well done.

Like another review, I would consider this more of a good rental movie
than one that's good to see in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was cheaply made, along the lines of Paranormal Activity,
web cam horror flicks, etc. As has been stated by several other
reviewers, it is a cheap knock-off of E.T. 

We were misled by the poster, which made us feel it would be a great
movie for our 7 yr old. NOT! The movie had the characters in bars, teen
parties with kissing and alcohol consumption, etc.

Parental concerns aside, the movie was nothing more than a hurried,
choppy view from a portable cam. 

Save your money and watch a Youtube video...which is what this 'movie'
really was.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is something like ET meets Wall-E, in a modern style. Solid
entertainment for kids and people who don't care about realism that
much. I do enjoyed the film and it definitely deserves a better rating
than 5.8 (the actual IMDb-rating) Don't get bothered by the people
complaining this movie is just a bad copy of ET. It is done for people
who are young right now wanting to enjoy a solid movie and not the old
ones living in the past. Sure ET, the old Indiana Jones movies and the
other stuff was great, but that doesn't mean new movies are bad by
definition.

Whatever, if you want to enjoy some light entertainment made for kids
you can definitely be happy with this one - but don't expect a
mindblowing classic ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Because of the posters, every little child who can talk wants to see
this movie. However, most of the dialogue and jokes go right over the
head of anyone under the age of 8-10. It is a beautiful movie that
reminds me of Batteries not Included and Goonies (with that first
person camera work directors love now-days), but (as with both of those
movies) the target audience seems to be older families, not little
children.

That being said, there is nothing overt that you want to hide your
little ones from, they will just probably fall asleep as my 4 year old
did. If you have a 12 year old and you want to see a movie with them,
then this is the perfect movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my Grandson to see this movie thinking it would be a nice non-
animated movie. It was awful. The people in front of us walked out
within 20 minutes and I wish we had. It is all about the boys and very
little about the alien. And they should warn you that the filming is
shaky and poor. It looks like a home movie. The trailers lead you to
believe this is about finding an alien. It is about adolescent boys. If
you enjoy listening to adolescent conversation you might like it. The
story is also lacking in background and therefore difficult for younger
children to follow what or why things are happening. I found it very
boring and slow moving. I would NOT recommend this movie
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to love Earth to Echo: it has found footage scifi, a group of
rambunctious kids, a good score, and a lovable Wall-E-esque robot.
Sadly, it's just not good and, more importantly, unneeded. Despite some
decent humor and some fun in the scifi action, it brings little new to
the kids-on-an-adventure genre. It's at best bland and at worst
annoying; awkwardly performed, style-less, and forgettable. It's the
story of three pre-teen friends in a town being leveled by a mysterious
government project. They spend their last night together on one final
adventure, befriending an alien robot. If E2E's plot sounds familiar,
that's because it's a shameless mix of E.T. and The Goonies, only worse
than both. The unknown young actors are completely out of their depth.
The main protagonist is unbearably irritating, and the characters are
nowhere near true: way too focused, determined and emotionally in touch
to be believable. These performances hurt the found footage gimmick,
which must feel natural in order to work. Not only is it not natural,
the found footage rules are often broken, with strange edits and camera
shots totally unexplained. It becomes more of a distraction than an
effective tool. My father-in-law describes The Goonies, one of my
favorites, as simply a bunch of kids running around and yelling. Maybe
I'm getting old, but that's how I would describe E2E. It's the classic
"adults just don't understand" story, but everything the kids do is so
incredibly destructive I found myself siding with the antagonist
adults! Kids will undoubtedly enjoy it, but it's just too familiar and
unremarkable for me to get behind.
