
Franchise fatigue has definitely set in with this tedious fourth
instalment. 

After taking things off on a slightly different tangent with the
previous film, the same writing/directing duo instead plump for the
same old, same old - lots of nothing happening before LOUD NOISES!
freak out the teenage girls in the audience and the less discerning
horror moviegoers. 

And, despite some spirited (ha!) performances, the lack of any real
plot development leaves the mythology treading water and the series as
a whole rather confused.

Ultimately, PA 4 is a step back and the textbook definition of
'diminished return'.
<|_=00=_|>
what a waste of time and cash.. the movie was pointless. with no flow.
no questions answered. just a waste. I never review movies but had to
share how bad this was..compared to part 1- 2- and 3.... i don't know
what else to say other than how misleading the commercial is.. the
commercial was cut and spliced with video and audio that didn't even
match what happened in the movie... you have been warned. when the
movie was over.. people actually Boo'd. hopefully people will spread
the word, and save others from throwing their money away. i know
die-hard fans will go and give it a shot, but will be disappointed as
well. Sinister was better and actually made you jump quite a few times.
<|_=00=_|>
I am never giving this franchise another dime, nor another minute of my
life; mark my words, so long as I live. That's four movies, at
approximately two hours per film, twelve opening-weekend cinema passes
at three tickets per release all for what?? There's no bigger-picture,
here! There's no larger story being told there *IS* no story to this
story! 

The writers are doing nothing more than frantically clamoring to try
and keep the series going for just one-more-year. Short pay-off,
because they realize they've got NOTHING of substance. Like "Lost," in
it's final season, you're left holding the bag, realizing it was all
for nothing: the writers had sh*t, and so that is what they gave you
sh*t. 

Me? I'm embarrassed I stayed this long. This is my stop, this is where
I get off.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so I'll admit that I found the first "Paranormal Activity" to be
overrated, and the second to be largely an extension of the first. The
third one, I must admit, I found very effective at times, and it was
the best of the franchise in my view.

Now we have "Paranormal Activity 4," and I must admit, I found this one
utterly ridiculous in so many ways.

The base story is that Katie, the possessed woman from the first two
films, and the sibling who was haunted by Toby in the third film, has
moved next door to a new family with her adopted son "Robbie" in tow.

Robbie has a propensity for wandering onto the property of the
neighbours across the street, giving Alex, the daughter of the family,
and her best friend Ben the creeps...something that they mention
seemingly every 30 seconds in the first half of the film.

One night Katie is taken away in an ambulance, and so the family across
the street takes in Robbie until Katie is well enough to come home.
During this time Robbie bonds with the family's young son Wyatt...and
introduces him to his unseen companion...who we assume is "Toby,"
though I don't recall this ever being made clear.

Paranormal activities begin to plague the family, in particular Alex,
from the moment that Robbie enters the home...but her efforts to alert
her family of what's going on falls on deaf ears until, by the end,
they meet the typical franchise fate.

Now it has to be said that I think the found footage element in this
film has been stretched to the max. I mean, there are no home video
cameras in the film...it's all captured apparently on laptop web
cam...which requires Alex to basically cart along her laptop wherever
she goes, while the other laptops are set to remote record.

Apparently no one closes there laptop after they're done using it, but
I digress...the formula is obviously warn out.

As is the need to rely on jump scares and CGI. Seriously, aside from
some menacing moments when Katie appears behind someone, and you're
waiting to see what she does, there is literally no scares besides jump
scares.

The most bizarre moment of the entire film...is when Alex and her
Father are under attack by the witches coven and the paranormal
force...and presumably as she's running for her life, Alex is carrying
around her laptop.

To be honest, I just think they've run out of ideas on this franchise,
which is I suspect why the film, even with about five minutes of clips
from the first two films, just barely makes it over the 80 minute mark.

My advice: if you're looking for a scary film that will be with you for
days...go see "Sinister." If you see this one, prepare to be
disappointed...as it wouldn't be incorrect to say that the scariest
scenes...are in the trailer...some of which somehow don't even make it
into the film itself.
<|_=00=_|>
What complete and utter garbage!! I want my money back!! so slow and it
didn't really get going at all....makes you jump a couple of times and
that's mainly due to the loud bangs...and the ending,what was that
about??? really hope they don't make another one !! if they do I
certainly will not be going as much as I love the cinema,it says I have
to write ten lines to be able to post my view...can I really moan about
it for that long?? yeah I guess so,and would I be able to put a
spoiler,well no you can't spoil what is already rubbish ....really
disappointed with this but then again they kind of did go down hill the
more they made,if they do make another one it will be the same again I
suppose cause what else is there do with it,the same happens over and
over..OK well rant over,if you do go and see this be prepared,you may
nod off.
<|_=00=_|>
At first, i want to say, that i was expecting a lot from this movie. I
went to cinema all pumped up with a lot of my friends and i prepared
myself for something really scary. Even when "night #1" appeared on the
screen, we were ready to pee our pants. But all my hopes ended within
40 minutes. At first, 80% of the movie was completely pointless, and
i'm not even mentioning the fact about absence of shocking moments,
even "traditional paranormal activity jump scares" were left out. Most
of the intense moments were interrupted or not finished at all. The
main characters were acting like a group of idiots. So many "no reason"
things throughout the movie. Horribly written script which ruined the
whole paranormal activity "thing" in it. And a trailer shows a lot of
the moments which didn't appear in the movie itself.

P.S. Result: Hollywood makes good movies in a pile of dog crap. Period.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the movie not expecting it to be as good as the other
Paranormal Activities. They all seemed to go downhill since the first
one came out. This one was just too slow. There were the obvious
suspenseful scenes but there just wasn't enough. The movie had hope at
times but then it was just squashed by rushing through. They didn't go
into much detail about the demonic possession and skipped over plenty
of unanswered questions. The last twenty minutes of the movie were by
far the best. And that is the only reason it got four stars. I do hope
they give up and don't plan on making another one. The few screams that
the movie did get wasn't worth the $11.50 I paid for the ticket. Wait
until it comes out on RedBox.
<|_=00=_|>
First off let me just say that as a film in a franchise this was
absolutely horrible!!!! I was bored out of my mind and my friend was
yawning throughout the film. We did, however, get a good laugh when the
grown men in the theater were screaming. Much of the scenes shown in
the trailer did not make it in the film which is disappointing. With
about seven scenes where we actually flinch, the movie is completely
drawn out and a sad attempt to end a franchise that was held in such
high regards. Other than that Katie's presence was a plus and the
acting of the young girl Alex. Please do not waste your money, time or
screams.
<|_=00=_|>
I would just like to start by saying that if you are a true fan of the
original and know the story through and through, then this movie will
not do anything for you. BUT, if you are just there for a few cheap
jump scares, go for it.

Still here? Okay lets continue.

From the get go, you are introduced to the films before it, but none of
the true mythology the previous films have built up (which is a shame
because the third film left things to be explored). You are also
introduced to a new family and that all you should really know for now.

This movie is not worth it. Unlike the first film (and to an extent the
second film) tension is not built up to a satisfying ending, as 20
minutes into the film we are already well established and getting
scared by things popping out at any time. The acting in the film is
okay for a horror movie for a film. BUT for a film so late into a
franchise with no set direction for a 5th film, i think they should
just let it die (but i'm sure 13 yr olds will just LOVE it for the fact
things jump out which is NOT scary) And the Ending. I will not even
comment as i believe it to be not a proper ending and i will go on a
rant.

Don't expect too much and you might enjoy it but for what its worth, it
was atrocious, just another franchise getting run into the ground like
the Saw films.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, they definitely messed this one up big time, there was
absolutely no major scary scenes....it was extremely slow for the
audience to even keep them frightened in one pace. In the movie, they
show you dates of incidents, and the first incident I believe it
started from November 1st 2011, and I kid you not, some small jumpy
parts started in incident November 9th 2011....your just sitting there
questioning your self, when the hell am I going to fly off my seat??
because lets face it, we're all there to enjoy an actual horror movie
right, the 1st one was scary as HELL, 2nd one was OKAY, 3rd was GREAT.
It just bothers me how they don't keep the movie exciting enough for
the Paranormal Activity fans, how would they like to have the people
come back to watch the movie again? or be able to trust the director or
writer of the movie? I was very VERY disappointed in this one, and if
there is 5 its just going to get even more sillier and sillier and just
come up with stupid ideas and story, not with this movie they won't be
able to keep up! EPIC FAIL IN THE 4TH ONE. enough said.
