
now, I'm quite the metallica fan, so naturally when i heard they were
making a movie, i was psyched, confused by the trailer but still.

I watched it in 3d with all the overpriced sugar and toppings of
today's cinemas, and it was truly a great experience. The sound was
superb. But as to the actual movie, it was (a bit to my disappointment)
almost entirely a concert. The 'story' about trip and his 'trip' has
probably a total running time of 10-15 min. They said the were making a
movie, they advertised it like a movie, so i imagined it wouldn't be
85% concert. It's a great concert though.

I gave it a 5 because i simply didn't know how to rate this. The fact
is: if you love metallica and want to see a concert DVD with some
interesting and surreal side story between songs, then you will love
this and it would be a 7.5/10. But if you want to see a movie by
J.Hetfield coupled with metallica songs, your gonna have a... well not
a bad time, just not a very good one either.
<|_=00=_|>
Before anyone starts going off-topic in the comments, yes, I'm a fan. I
also understand the irony of starting with that statement. My point:
this is a review of a cinema experience. An outstanding one. Made more
exciting to me because it happens to be by and about my favourite band.
This is NOT a discussion of the merits of said band's existence.
Although it will strike a mighty blow for Metallica when those
arguments do inevitably come up, hopefully elsewhere. Moving swiftly
along...

This is just a truly mind-blowing sensory overload. Never has a band
showcased their live performance with such an ambitious, technical,
multi-sensory project. I wouldn't have even thought it possible. They
don't just use the handy 3D technology to add gimmick to the next in a
long line of live video releases. No. Metallica have pushed the
boundaries of the technology itself, and added dimensions to what we
see as possible within the realm of 3D cinema. 

I had the privilege of chatting with Lars about this when they played
some shows here in March, and he described it as their "attempt to
truly showcase what they do and who they are." Man, does this
emphatically succeed.

The stage is a kind of mutant super-setup, comprising video screens,
pyro, tesla coils and the best parts of everything they've ever done in
their live shows. As the audience, you're in/on/under/part-of the
stage, alongside the band, in glorious 3D.

And, it's tasteful. In as much as Metallica at their tightest, hardest,
loudest, biggest and fiercest can be "tasteful." 

As for the little story within what is really the best ever technical
and technological presentation of a rock concert, it's a lovely
compliment to the energy of the performance itself. I don't wanna
give-away too much, but as the show begins, a young roadie is sent on
an errand. Things go badly (surreally and beautifully) wrong. It's not
just exhilarating, but wonderfully interwoven with the songs and the
"storylines" within them. 

I'm proud to have seen Metallica live seven times. I count this as the
eighth. And it probably ranks fourth amongst those eight live (or, in
this case, damn-near live) experiences. Truly, truly mind-blowing.

Metallica have truly - and astonishingly - documented what they do and
why they are the very best there's ever been at doing it. 

Essential for fans, and absolutely worthwhile for all but the most
hateful of heavy music in general. Bravo.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got home and thought I had to write something about this movie.

First of all, I've seen Metallica 9 times live, and I am a fan, but
when it comes to their movies, I get sceptical. Remember "Some Kind of
Monster"? The movie starts off with an introduction of all characters,
which seems unnecessary, except the roadie character Trip (DeHaan).

The band starts their show and Trip gets an unexpected assignment. It
seems to me that DeHaan's parts are not more than 10 Minutes in the
whole movie.

The rest of the movie is just an awesome Metallica gig with their stage
sets from the past, well at least Lady Justice and the Enter Sandman
part from the "cunning stunts" video/DVD - box from 1997 and of course
some new stage setting ideas.

The roadie has to look for an item, which is somewhere in the city,
which seems to be in a parallel universe or Trip is having a trip. 

*Spoiler* Its a leather satchel bag, which the band needs to play the
gig. As Trip finds it he looks inside, but the viewer cant see whats in
it. When Trip then returns to the venue, the movie is over and we are
left, not knowing whats in there. BUT if you are a Metallica fan, and
stay in your seat, you probably can assume what it is, as the band
plays "Orion" during the credits... I read it somewhere else a few
minutes ago and I also thought the same while seeing the ending
credits,... it's probably Cliff Burtons soul, because its always with
Metallica.

A good ending honoring a great bass player!
<|_=00=_|>
Metallica does it again! These guys always know how to raise the bar
for every other metal band out there. IMAX 3D is the way to go! Almost
everyone was amped in the theater and we were all pretty much rocking
in our seat and singing along. We were even clapping like it was an
actual concert! Metallica provided total energy throughout the film. It
was 70% concert (like you were on stage with them), 25% action movie,
and 5% music video! Anyway, they did not skimp on the effects or the
sound! I'm not sure what ssp113 was talking about when he/she stated
that the resolution was awful. It was the coolest and clearest thing
ever! So, if you are a metal fan and, especially, a Metallica fan, you
are going to love this film and rock your way through it!
<|_=00=_|>
As many here have said, I love Metallica, but I feel disappointed, I
was expecting a movie, and even though it isn't a movie but a concert
with a little tiny movie within, the movie doesn't have any explanation
on what was all the crazy stuff on the little movie shoots, and what
was in the bag at the end, it makes me angry.... but a great concert
after all, Cunning Stunts on steroids... or "Cunning Stunts on HD, 3D,
Dolby Atmos and 15 years later".

There is not a single reason or explanation on why there are zombies,
why there is some kind of rioting, why the guy in the truck is scared
or what is happening to him, what is the meaning on the horsemen, no
explanation at all.

Some argue that the bag contained Cliff Burton soul, but again, nothing
concrete.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie made me want to set myself on fire and run flailing into an
angry mob of baseball equipped, bike-less bikers.

I just waded through a sea of reviews praising this 'masterpiece' and
time after time was brought to tears with laughter. This isn't a movie!
It may have been a good concert if Lars was replaced with the phonics
monkey from South Park and James started drinking again. The timing in
all the songs were so interchangeable that one would think it was a
documented case of rhythm perceived by a person with half a brain. The
concert was not one of their greatest and I get that not every concert
is going to be great but this was the one they put their stupid movie
to. Well... Maybe calling it a movie is a bit too much. I've read in
reviews that people shouldn't bad-mouth it for it's content and watch
it like you would a concert... No. Watch a concert like you would a
concert. They released this as a movie, with a movie trailer and
everything, then they lazily put badly written scenes from a story with
absolutely no direction in between songs. Yeah I'm done writing this
sh!tty review. The movie was sh!t but it was at least hilarious.
Download it, watch it, laugh or cry. Warm gooey pen!s butter in your
eye.
<|_=00=_|>
I have allowed a week to pass before writing this review, mainly so I
can be a bit more critical than I would have been otherwise. After some
time to absorb this experience, I stand behind most of my initial
thoughts. 

It rocks. Plain and simple. 

Okay, so if you are not a Metallica fan and have nothing better to do
than bash this film for being egotistical or lacking in plot or some
other such nonsense, please save your breath. This is a movie
experience designed for musicians and metal heads. Is it flawless?
Absolutely not. Are there scratch-your-head moments? Yep. But is the
end result worth it? One hundred percent!

The wraparound storyline seems a tad forced at times, but the imagery
and scenery are a welcome break from the flashing lights and grandeur
of the concert performance. Metallica prove themselves worthy musicians
even after all these years. They also prove that there is a Metallica
riff for any type of sequence you will ever encounter in a film. The
song choices compliment the action perfectly, building an added layer
of depth among a movie that is somewhat lacking in that department.
Let's face it, this IS basically just a concert. Like it or not, you
are paying to watch a performance first, subplot second. 

As a musician, I was hoping for a bit more behind-the-scenes looks than
were offered. I know that there must be numerous crew members handling
sound mixing, guitar effects, lighting and set changes, all of which
would have been an added bonus. (Although perhaps they choose not to
give away too many secrets?) A few more camera shots of the fingers,
particularly during solos, would also have been great, but I was
certainly satisfied with what they offered. 

Overall, tremendously mixed, well-imagined experience for anyone with
even a remote interest in metal (or just good music). See it in IMAX
while you can. It's cheaper than a true concert and you don't have to
dodge a moshing mob of sweaty drunks. Well worth the price. 

Also they play Orion during the credits. Enough said.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a concert film, it's not a movie. Metallica fans or anyone that
has ever taken acid will relate to the cut scenes and the metaphors
within the journey of Trip the roadie, as ridiculous as they are.

To anyone else, it's pointless, over the top & completely rudderless,
but to the hardcore, lifelong fans who revel in the spectacular. It's
too short, not loud enough and not a moment too soon.

The first review in IMDb is from "ssp113" he called it the worst "film"
he'd ever see. I use my real name on this site, but I've got a feeling
his real name might be Dave Mustaine? Ego's..............don't make me
laugh, it's METALLICA BABY!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing Metallica on an IMAX screen in 3D and hearing them come through
the amazing sound systems in IMAX....WOW, what a treat. If you are a
Metallica fan DO NOT MISS this opportunity to see the best possible
concert experience outside being there in person. The "move" aspect was
a fun little adventure, but lets face it, I was there to HEAR Metallica
on an amazing sound system.

The Audio was the highest quality best sounding I have ever hear
Metallica (or any other band) in my entire life. The sound was loud yet
crystal clear with the ability to hear each individual instrument as if
they were performing right in front of you. It was astounding! You will
not be disappointed in your ears. Watching this on IMAX you will
understand why the MP3 format finally needs to die and we need a much
higher quality sound format to do our ears justice! I'm desperately
trying to find this album in 192khz FLAC, but no dice...guess I'll just
have to wait for it on Bluray.

The 3D was equally as good. IMAX 3D is far superior to other theaters,
you forget you are wearing glasses and you are completely immersed into
the film. It's so crystal clear that it actually feels as if you are
right there. IMAX 3D never fails to disappoint!

Bottom line, if you love seeing Metallica live GO SEE THIS
"MOVIE"...it's spectacular!
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched it and went back home in awe. It's not only because it was
the most spectacular show i 've ever watched, nor because the back
story freaked me out. It was because i realized that through the never
i got a glimpse from future music entertainment. 

Let me guarantee you some things about Through the never. -You WILL
have a good time. -You will head bang. -You will grab the person next
to you saying "this is surreal mate" -You will sing Metallica songs for
the rest of the week. -You will start imagining other bands doing the
same thing in the future. 

But let me just say some cons -You will have a small headache, similar
to the one after a loud concert -You won't see any plot -If you are not
a Metallica fan or a metal fan in general you are in for a shock -If
you are Mustaine, you will feel like crying again.

Seriously now, nobody should miss it especially in 3D. It is like a big
concert video clip. It will change music live shows in the future.
Metallica are still pioneers.
