
Let me preface this by saying I'm a big Transformers fan. I love the
series. I love the concept. I loved the animated series that used to
air on TV. I even loved the previous Transformers movies. (Well, maybe
not the third one, but I thought it was okay.) It is one of my favorite
franchises and I just watched it being butchered for over two and a
half hours.

Transformers: Age of Extinction is a disaster. I was thrilled to get
the chance to see it before most of the world but ended up being
thoroughly disappointed. The movie is 165 minutes of incoherent
nonsense and if you thought that's what the previous movies were, well,
you might start appreciating them after seeing this.

First of all, it has that god awful Michael Bay humor that we saw in
the previous movies. It's not funny at all and there is so much of it
so often it makes you cringe. It's like watching a senile old man
running naked on the street. It's sad and it makes you feel
uncomfortable.

But that stuff was there before as well. What I loved about the
Transformers movies, or what anyone loves about them, was watching the
robots transform and fight. The previous movies had memorable moments.
I still remember the scene from the first movie where Ironhide jumps up
and shoots missiles mid-air in slow motion as the woman is screaming
below, and Starscream jumping and transforming mid-air and flying off,
Sideways getting sliced in half by Sideswipe, Scorponok rising from the
ground, and the brief scenes with Demolisher and Devastator in the
second movie and finally the Shockwave sequences and that time
Bumblebee transforms with Shia LaBeouf still in the car from the third
movie.

But nothing of that sort happens in this movie. Other than Optimus
Prime and Bumblebee, there are three other Autobots in the movie, all
of whom are new. They try to come across as interesting but you don't
really give a damn about them. Bumblebee is so seldomly seen on screen
you forget he's even there in the movie. And Optimus Prime goes through
his usual routine of getting his ass thoroughly kicked in the first
half of the movie, only to rise again later, something which has been a
common theme of previous movies. This is why I don't feel particularly
strongly about the movie version of Prime because he fails so often and
so hard in combat it's difficult to take him seriously as a leader.

There are plenty of action sequences in the movie but the first half
has about 10% of them. And considering the first half is about 90
minutes long it means you are treated to a lot of talking and other
stuff that is either plain stupid or just boring. When sh*t does start
hitting the fan later, it's just a bloody mess, with so much happening
at once that you don't care about anything and none of it is
particularly cool or memorable. There is also the nausea-inducing shaky
camera technique being thoroughly abused here, which actually makes it
hard to see what's going on because everything is shaking so god damned
much all the time. Except when there is a product placement going on,
then the camera is absolutely still so you can see the brand name
clearly.

The only redeeming aspects of this movie are the exceptional CGI with
some stunning 3D and the incredible sound. The movie looks and sounds
fantastic and if you do make the mistake of watching it, do it in IMAX
like I did because otherwise there will be nothing there to enjoy.
(This film does have the highest amount of IMAX footage I've seen in
any movie, with practically half the movie being in IMAX. However, I
did not like the way it constantly keeps jumping between IMAX and
non-IMAX footage between every other scene. This probably won't bother
you as much as it bothered me and if you watch it in a regular theater
then you won't see it at all.)

Overall, Transformers: Age of Extinction is a horrible mess of a movie
and a complete waste of time and money. The previous Transformers
movies were a guilty pleasure and scratched a very specific itch for a
very specific audience but this one doesn't even do that while
inheriting all the flaws of its predecessors. It takes a special kind
of idiot to mess up something so simple but Michael Bay does it with
aplomb.
<|_=00=_|>
Worst of the transformers movies. Was okay until about a 3rd of the way
through. Mark Wahlberg was better than Shia, but the movie was bloated
with too many similar scenes.

Enough chase scenes and slow motion explosions for the whole of 2014.
It would be nice to see some sort of characters developed for the
transformers. Because they are created as one dimensional punchlines
there is no possibility to have any interesting story that involves the
transformers interacting with each other.

Wait for the DVD if you must see it, but you wont be missing much if
you avoid it all together.
<|_=00=_|>
Ahhh where to start. I usually don't write reviews. But yesterday's
disappointment in watching this had to be expressed either through
punching an anvil, or writing this review. But i need my hands this
week so I'm going to write a review.

I am a fan of transformers, i loved the cartoon series and the first
and second blockbuster hit. I saw quite a substantial amount of plot
holes in the third installation and I knew it was going to go downhill
from there. I had hopes that the age of extinction would clear some of
the plot holes i saw from the dark of the moon, and after seeing the
movie trailers I became somewhat excited and felt all warm inside.

I brought my two boys with me, bought some overpriced pop-corns and
sugar drinks to stimulate my mind so that my brain could focus and
absorb the new concept of the story, hoping to satisfy my hunger for
unanswered questions that left my joy decimated at the last series.

I like Walhberg during action scenes, but not when he starts making
lame dialogues. And those lame dialogues deviate from being a bit
funny, to just stab me in my thighs, depending on who wrote the script.
Lame dialogues pervaded the whole friggen movie! 

There are countless, pointless, perpetually boring ass things that
prevented the story, or just the movie as a whole from being
appreciated. The characters were annoying, namely Lucas, Tessa and that
friggen Shane who is nothing but a disrespectful little sh*t to
Walhberg and exhibited this attitude throughout until third quarter of
the movie. I'm a dad alright, and I just wanted to punch him the f**k
out! And Walhberg should've done the same, what the hell? Few good
actors, but the characters were weak. 

Every time i thought that the movie was trying to make people laugh, I
look around the entire cinema and see people staring at the screen, not
laughing. I look at my boys and they're not laughing, and they're the
type that laugh at anything that moves. I'm not laughing because my
mind is struggling trying to keep that hope alive while at the same
time enduring the thought of another ominous outcome, "when is this
going to end?", "stop doing stupid things", "stop trying to make me
laugh", "just stop talking", "OMG what am I doing here?"

I finish the giant popcorn and my big tub of sugar drink after an hour.
I thought that if i just go out for a smoke, maybe i'll be able to
appreciate the rest of the movie because my mind will be refreshed.
I'll take my time, maybe say hi to that nice ticket collector and make
small talk. That's 10 minutes to recuperate. It couldn't be that bad.

I get back to my seat. Nothing changes... 

Every new main event that was introduced in the movie was not properly
explained in the end. In other words, it just came out of nowhere and
went nowhere. This just piled up leaving me with more and more
questions. It seems as if plots were inserted in holes and the viewer
was left to create his own resolution of it. The story is incongruently
incoherent. 

Why after all this time, can't Bumblebee talk? With all the autonomous
robotic, high alien-technologically advanced race systems that are
available that they can't rectify his voice box?? I wanted to see more
of the dinobots. And why were they in the... never mind, no spoilers.

Yes most of the action scenes were great, but come on, don't make it
lame by adding something that doesn't belong there, like another
horrific comment, phrase or something that isn't funny. It destroys the
entertainment. In fact, just don't even talk during the action scenes
please!

Graphics are awesome. That's the only thing I appreciate. 

So unfortunately i left disappointed once again. More than
disappointed, irritated and frustrated. I asked my boys what they
thought, they said "ummm... awesome?" as if that definition has lost
it's meaning and they weren't entirely sure how to make me feel better.
I wanted to research on the writers and directors who created this
movie to try and figure out how they defiled a great science fiction
theme, but I couldn't give a cross-bun anymore. I'll let it roll this
time. I feeling a bit better now.

In the end i figure this movie suits those who don't care too much
about story lines and great characters and dialogues. Mainly those who
like to see giant robots fight. but the movie is rated for matured
audiences and robot fights only took place during half the movie. So
then I question what are the creators of this film trying to achieve?
Use the name for profit and create something primarily for
entertainment purposes. But today's audience are rational thinkers who
want more than just action scenes and loud explosions. So...
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I only went to the
release because some parts were filmed in Detroit. The first hour was
plot driven and tolerable to watch. Wahlberg is always fun to watch and
the main chick is cute but the last 1.5 hours is straight action and no
plot and I wanted to walk out before I had a seizure.

Special effects were visually pleasing, but would have been better if I
cared what was going on. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a hater. I tried
so hard to be interested in this flick but I found myself looking at my
watch obsessively for the last hour.

On the lighter side, the idea behind the plot was interesting and
though provoking but poorly executed on screen.

I have never written a review before, but this movie was so utterly
disappointing that I felt obligated to warn humanity. We are truly
living in the age of extinction when we allow a piece of garbage like
this to pass as a major motion picture release in the 21st century.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I am a fan of the previous movies. they were not masterpieces
of story telling or acting but at least they were entertaining and
somewhat funny. Secondly this is one very very boring movie. there is
no plot to speak off, no characters to get any attachment to, no sense
of a story what so ever. the only thing that is there is Michael Bays
trademark explosions. 150 minutes of them... You could take away every
human in the movie and still have the same result. You could take away
100 of the 166 minutes and still have the same result. The fights are a
constant mess where you cant really root for someone cause you cant
really understand who is doing what. All in all I spent more than half
the movie trying to understand where it was going and praying for it to
end.
<|_=00=_|>
Set five years after Dark of the Moon, Transformers: Age of Extinction
sets out to continue the franchise, taking a new path in more than one
way. Lots of explosions, action scenes and robots wrecking cities up
and we've got ourselves the fourth one.

To begin with, there were a lot of weak points, the biggest challenge
being the fact that the entire human cast was replaced. I felt that
Wahlberg and Tucci did a good job, but the rest of them were terrible.
A lot of it has to do with writing: the characters were shallow and
didn't have any depth at all. At a running time of 2h45min you think it
would be enough to flesh them out but no. Wahlberg's daughter just
yells "Dad!" and screams her entire screen time. Her boyfriend is
shoehorned in just to complete the clumsy romance but in the end is
just a tool to move the plot. Sophia Myles, amongst others, is
completely wasted. The fact that Bay chose to concentrate on the humans
again, and failed with it again, speaks volumes.

It was, however, good to see how Cade (Wahlberg) first comes across
Optimus Prime and being a mechanic/inventor, revitalizes the beaten
leader. The focus also shifted from Bumblebee to Prime as the main link
to the protagonist, but oddly it was never explained why Bee left Sam
in the first place, being his most loyal protector.

Now, speaking of techs in the film, there was a lot of slow-mo. A lot.
And it really took away from the action. It is okay to employ slow-mo
sometimes, for example when the robots are transforming, but not at
every single shot. Moreover, the transformings themselves were weaker
than in the previous installments. I mean, in the first one when
Starscream transformed into a plane in the middle of the flight or they
were fighting/transforming in the narrow street, or in DotM during the
fights, this depth was lacking in AoE. Also the fights weren't as good
compared to the gigantic robot battles or human black ops tactics in
previous films. Lastly, as cheesy as it may sound Optimus Prime riding
Grimlock was pretty awesome. Even if Grimlock was in the movie for
about ten whole minutes. And Lockdown the bounty hunter as the main
villain was also done nicely.

The film is way too long, the beginning stretches a lot, the middle
even more, the finale as well. We are treated to a lot of badly written
human characters who just slow the movie down and stretch. Even the
endless explosions got tiring (boom, boom, boom and slow-mo all the
time, why oh why?). But honestly, going in I thought this would be
loads worse. In the end though, not as good as the first or the third,
but still better than the second (not that this should count for
anything as that was plain awful). Altogether, too long, too stretchy,
way too much slow-mo, too shallow characters, some decent fights and
action, Prime riding Grimlock and Wahlberg being his usual self. Could
have been worse but not by much.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't watch it. Extremely long, extremely boring. How many more parts
are they gonna make? The story is very confusing and not well
thought-through. Everything has already been chewed over and over and
they keep squeezing the last bit out of the transformer-idea. The
actors apparently didn't like it either because even my little sister
could have done a better job. Especially the voice acting for the
transformers is very weak and one just feels stupid listening to their
voices. I had enough of this movie after a little more than 1 hour.
That's more than 1 and 1/2 hours left which I still watched, thinking
maybe something would still happen. Guess what? It didn't. Long story
short, this movie is really, really bad.
<|_=00=_|>
this is the really the worst movie i have seen this year.Let me make
this short .It is extremely boring .I wanted to get out of the theater
is mid way.plot is confusing.action and graphics are excellent,but
whats the point when there is no story.above average acting,repeatedly
irritating jokes,unnecessary music .music is good but it is added at
unnecessary places.the movie could have been wrapped up in 30 min but
it almost stretched for 3 hours.older actor was definitely a better
actor.you wont be able to sit throughout the film if you haven't
watched the other parts,but even if you have watched the other parts it
wont make much of a difference.Don't waste you time and money for this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst Michael Bay movies yet.

It never stops, it taught i was going insane... just mindless action
with almost no breathers.

Escapism at its worst.

Tough if you like a confused plot, bad performances, disgusting
monologue, horrible mindless action, horrible comedy, really bad
timing, terrible editing and getting your energy sucked out slowly and
brutally during what feels like eons... Then by all means, go waste
your money.

This is not a tribute to Transformers. It's a hymn to the mindless, and
shallow escapism which has boomed in Hollywood the last 20 years with
the coming of the digital era(Even tough there are good digital
movies). Not even worth the illegal act of downloading. Glad i got this
paid by a friend who insisted i joined. Last time.

Cheers
<|_=00=_|>
I seldomly write reviews, but sometimes (every 4 or 5 years or so) I
just have to warn people before spending hard earned money on something
so incredibly awful as this film. I see most films at home but I saw
this one in the theatre with my stepson who really wanted to see this.
For me it ended up even way below my expectations, which were already
very low. Note: I really liked the first one. I don't dislike Bay (even
liked Pearl Harbor and Armageddon and Bad Boys II), but this is just
simply not very good. It's plain awful actually. Even my 11 yr old
stepson thought it was boring.... need I say more...? It doesn't go
anywhere, you don't care at all what happens to the characters, human
or alien and there is literally never any sense of urgency or peril for
anyone involved. Please let another director have a shot at this
franchise and let Bay direct another The Rock. And why Spielberg is
executive-producing this turd of a movie is beyond me. Waste of time
for everyone involved, only good thing is it's making a ton of money
for Paramount. Lets just hope they invest in something with more
substance.
