
St. Vincent, starring Bill Murray as Vincent, asks us to define the
qualities of a saint, while we enjoy the decidedly unsaintly Vincent.
He defines curmudgeon, a cranky old misanthrope unhappy with his life
and ready to dress down practically anyone who talks to him. The film
itself is an amusing character study with unanticipated turns.

But don't think you can write the script because Vincent and the motley
crew of his life have surprises that do not fit the usual bitter old
guy formula. The saving grace is the honesty Murray invests in the
role, which requires him also to display caring characteristics not
immediately apparent. That we are probably spying into the eccentric
character of Bill Murray through Vincent is an added treat.

The catalyst for the clichéd curmudgeon turnaround is a new pre-teen
next door neighbor, Oliver (Jaeden Lieberher), who is thrust on Vincent
for after school babysitting by med-tech mom, Maggie (Melissa
McCarthy). While the bonding is to be expected, Vincent and Oliver do a
long dance before any saintly traits emerge. Yet Oliver learns what
saints don't ordinarily do, like fight and gamble. As we learn, those
aren't necessarily negatives.

Although Naomi Watts' Russian hooker is a bit over the top in beauty
and heart of gold categories, she manages to project a simple love for
Vincent, a symbol for everyone who loves Vincent even as rough as he
is. Although Vincent could be loved for only his Vietnam experience, he
does low-key, un-Mother -Teresa-like acts of kindness that could
qualify him for sainthood.

That's the important theme of this tragicomedy: Being good, loved, and
saintly are within the grasp of the most common among us, implying that
imperfection is a constant of being human and maybe a bigger credential
than piety when that sinfulness is transformed into good deeds.

St. Vincent is an entertaining film with a well-worn message, but Bill
Murray, in his finest role since Lost in Translation, transforms it
into holiness.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a school of film reviewing which suggests that a film is like
a symphony, to review it, don't bother with minutiae, just listen for a
false or off-key note, and deduct points accordingly.

By that approach, this film would be a 10 because there are no false
notes.

And it is really that good.

The key to these sorts of films is trust your script, trust your
actors, and trust the director to simply to give them lead and let them
run. Which is precisely what we have here.

The iconic Bill Murray gives his most memorable performance since
MEATBALLS -- which, BTW, launched the entire Canadian film industry --
even though it is not actually a comic role. Impressive.

Naomi Watts give her most memorable performance since MULHULLAND DRIVE
where, as a glowing young ingénue, she stole scene after scene. She
steals here too.

Even Melissa McCarthy, who many consider a scenery-chewer and
over-the-top, is wonderfully restrained and actually creates an
empathetic character.

Delightful.
<|_=00=_|>
BY RYAN C. SHOWERS

If you have seen the trailers for "St. Vincent", you probably think
avoiding it at all costs is the best option with the film's release.
The judgmental thoughts I had with the previews were: recycled
storyline, serious actors taking "lesser" roles, and award season junk.
But that really wonderful thing happened to me while watching "St.
Vincent" where all my preconceived notions dissolve and the film
revealed proffers an sweepingly enjoyable time at the movies. It looks
like every area of the film could be a disaster, but mostly everything
in the new comedy moves fluidly.

Three or four times, "St. Vincent" really stumbles, completely
misfiring an already risky move. The first of these blunders is when
Vincent fights a group of punks bullying Oliver in an alley-- even the
trite set-up of the scene sounds like its asking for criticism. The
whole screenplay has a sense of predictability, but director Theodore
Melfi makes your see past the stale clichés and reminds you why
audiences were so moved by these overused plot devices for years and
years. (Melfi's directing is well completed, shooting and editing the
film adequately.) Accepting the screenplay's banal set-up will allow
you to see the acutely written dialogue in "St. Vincent". The film's
climatic pay-off is the best example of vigorously written, directed,
and acted dialogue through a speech recited by Oliver.

A selling point for any comedy could be the ability to make the viewer
really laugh. Not giggle, not smile from the film's cleverness, but an
erupting, uncontrollable laughter that captures your mind in bliss.
Time after time, "St. Vincent" made me laugh like this, out loud. It
runs the gambit over all methods of comedy: physical gags, one-liners,
banter between actors, situational comedy, and awkward moments. The
actors and execution are responsible for creating comedy where there
may not have been any to begin with, yes, I'm looking at you, Naomi
Watts.

At first sight, Watts made me laugh to myself thinking, "Man, 'Diana'
really did a number on her career options, huh?", but the more Watts
got to flesh out the character, the more she made me chuckle, and the
more I saw her commitment to the obnoxious role. She throws herself
into territory where she usually does not trend, as does her
co-supporting actress Melissa McCarthy. McCarthy gives the performance
with the most value, cranking this character out of the park. She
radiates her dramatic talents to extents only hinted at in her more
serious roles like Sookie in "Gilmore Girls". Get McCarthy out of films
like "Tammy" and "The Heat", and let her pursue roles in which she can
create a real person, like she does here.

Bill Murray has been the actor hailed by critics and the selling point
of the picture, and he brings exactly what you would expect he would
bring to the role: perfect comedic timing, a faultless empathy to the
scumbag, and movie star strength to carry the project. But who brings a
movie star power more than anyone is newcomer Jaeden Lieberher, who
transcends past typical annoying children archetypes.

"St. Vincent" is a sweet, lovable film that grows on you with each
passing laugh. It's the most I have shamelessly laughed at the cinema
all year.

* * * 1/2 / * * * *
<|_=00=_|>
This film is recommended.

The old curmudgeon has been a screen staple from Lionel Barrymore to
Walter Matthau to Jack Nicholson. Yet no one has played this type of
character so well these many years as Bill Murray. Even as a young man,
the actor brought with him that droll view of life, a wicked acerbic
wit, and a unique ironic humor to his many film roles from Ghostbusters
to Scrooge to Lost in Translation. So his portrayal in St. Vincent may
not be much of a stretch for the actor, but it is wildly captivating
performance that needs to been seen.

Yes, the story is far from original. Crotchety old man finds love and
redemption by the love of a young kid who he befriends begrudgingly.
Vincent is a drunk and a gambler. Yet, his new neighbor, Maggie (a
subtle and convincing Melissa McCarthy), hires him to babysit her son,
Oliver (Jaeden Lieberher), while she is at work making ends meet. Now
right there, one questions the entire sit-com set-up and implausible
story of the film, but one goes along with the preposterous notion for
sheer entertainment purposes.

Placing Mr. Murray in that pivotal role is the force that binds this
story together. He is both charming and repulsive in this part and the
actor is an absolute comic delight. Vincent's the man-child, a boy who
never grew up, a loner who survives from day to day and Murray nails
his character. His droll asides when taking his young charge to a bar
or racetrack, or cavorting with strippers and other unsavory persons
are key to the film's enjoyment, as is his wonderful chemistry with
Master Lieberger, who gives a natural and lovely performance as a child
who seems to have more common sense than any of the adults in this
film.

St. Vincent is an auspicious film debut by director/ writer Theodore
Melfi. While his initial premise is spotty, the filmmaker more than
acquits himself with his funny script and fine casting. Rounding out
this wonderful trio of actors are Chris O'Dowd, Terrence Howard, and
especially Naomi Watt as a Russian call girl with a heart of platinum.
The entire ensemble delivers their lines with brutal accuracy and
delicious comic timing, even if the film leads to a rather mawkish and
sappy ending that some may find to be poignant. One just can't help
relishing in the overall fun.

Technically, Melfi needs to learn more restraint as a director. He
tends to overuse pop songs to reinforce his message and overdoes many
scenes with melodramatic spurts. As a writer, he creates effective
dialog mixed with one-liners that, at least, stay true to his
well-written characters. But his plot structure is too conventional and
simple in every sense of the word. He may easily achieved his goal in
making a crowd-pleasing film, even if it lays on the pathos a bit
thickly. And from the reaction of the moviegoers in my audience, the
film scored highly amid the audible aahs and sniffles to my left and
right. It doesn't merely tug at the heartstrings, it plays two part
harmony too.

In truth, St. Vincent owes so much of its success to a small blessing
known as Mr. Murray. It is his compelling presence that is the main
attraction on display, and on that, everybody can rejoice! GRADE: B
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Moments after Bill Murray's Vincent
cracks a rare on screen "Chico and the Man" reference, we get our first
glimpse of scrawny Oliver (newcomer Jaeden Lieberher), and we
immediately know where this story is headed. The fact that we never
lose interest is thanks to Mr. Murray, the rest of the cast and
writer/director Theodore Melfi (his first feature film).

Though this is ultra-predictable and even strains credulity, we
nonetheless connect to Murray's Vincent - a grumpy, drunken, slobby,
chain-smoker who has a bond with a pregnant Russian
prostitute/stripper. Melissa McCarthy plays Oliver's mom Maggie, who
has separated from her philandering husband, and is intent on making a
life for her son. It's here where it should be noted that Ms. McCarthy
plays the role mostly straight - none of her usual funny-fat moments.
Instead, she excels in a scene with an emotional dump on Oliver's
principal and teacher (a standout Chris O'Dowd).

Surprisingly, this could even be described as a message movie. Vincent
quickly notices that Oliver is lacking street smarts and sets out to
correct this. The story reminds us that all people are multi-faceted.
The good have their rough edges, and the "bad" likely have a back-story
and some redeeming value. Vincent is so cantankerous that it takes a
kid as appealing as Oliver to balance the story. Even knowing a feel
good ending is coming, we as viewers don't mind being dragged through
the sap.

Murray is outstanding, and if the script had a bit more heft, he would
probably garner some Oscar consideration. McCarthy deserves notice for
going against type, and Naomi Watts flashes some real comedic timing
(maybe the biggest surprise of all). O'Dowd has some of the best
one-liners in the film, and shows again that he is immensely talented.
Terrence Howard seems a bit out of place as a loan shark, but he has
limited screen time, as does Ann Dowd as the nursing home director.

Prepare for the feel-bad-then-good ride, culminating in a school
auditorium event that reunites the key characters, and allows the child
actor to draw a tear or two from the audience. Good times that end with
classic Murray over the closing credits.
<|_=00=_|>
Bill Murray shows his acting range in this film by playing a despicable
human being that you can't help but to like, as Vincent, an angry old
man who takes on the job of a babysitter to his new neighbor's young
son in order to make some extra cash he surely needs. 

Melissa McCartney, who plays the neighbor is also in the movie. I love
McCartney, but it was obvious from the start that this is Big Bill's
show and he's leading this dance, while Melissa and Naomi Watts, who
also stars in the film are just tools to move the story along. A task
any actress could have done, but having Naomi and Melissa makes the
movie better to market. 

I wish I got more laughs for McCartney, but like I said, this is
totally Bill's ride, and it was a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
As a picture of real life, and all the superficial BS, and as ugly as
real life can be....spot on..thanks to all that brought this to the
screen. VS the mind numbing Crapsicles they usually serve us in most
movies. Murray is AWESOME as he was in the Razor's Edge..when he was at
his tragic comedy best. Proud to be a Murray! Want to know what REAL
life is like...go see this. This is by far one of his best roles.
Human-yes, flawed-yes. Bring a few tissues. None of us are perfect but
this makes us realize that our flaws make us, in other words, a saint.
I think tat this is one of the Best Roles ever that I have seen Bill
in. Sure, it is funny when he is the clown but watching this will break
your heart....in a good way
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a touching story. It is about a boy who befriends a
crusty curmudgeon in Vincent (Bill Murray) and discovers some facts of
life. But the deeper story is that family is really the friends you
choose and the wide cast of misfits are brought together by a mix of
circumstances and events. They are lost but then are found. The story
also showcases the lost heroes of Vietnam. These veterans are dying off
and as a nation we have forgotten their contributions in this senseless
war. The boy is the glue to the cast and he bridges the gap from the
wide differences between the characters. I would highly recommend if
and is sure to conjure up a tear or too. A real good feel movie that
shows how saints are everywhere, everyday, check out St. Vincent. Bill
Murray is a masterful actor that becomes the character,
<|_=00=_|>
Bill Murray can mug with the best of them and in this film he is pretty
much the whole thing. Playing a Vietnam vet, Vincent, who has seen
better times, he parlays his drunkenness into opportunity. The film
begins with him totally wasted, backing his car, an old woody
convertible, over his picket fence. The next day, a couple of Hispanic
movers bringing a middle aged woman (Melissa McCarthy) and her son to
their new digs, damages a tree branch. Murray uses this to threaten her
with a law suit unless she pays up. It's obvious that she doesn't have
much money. It turns out that she and her son are escaping her husband,
a philanderer, and the two are on the road to divorces. What ensues is
a relationship that grows out of necessity as Murray is enlisted to
look after the boy, Oliver, at significant cost to the mother. The kid
now becomes a part of Murray's daily forays into irresponsibility:
bars, horse track, joy riding, etc. He also brings the child to a
hospital where his Alzheimers stricken wife lives. Murray is devoted to
her, even though he has an ongoing thing with a Russian hooker, Naomi
Watts, whom he may have impregnated. She has the heart of gold in a
combative personality. The boy, Jaeden Liebehrer, is a gem of an actor.
He has this fatalistic sense to him. He knows he will remain the
perpetual victim, but when Vincent comes into his life, he begins to
absorb tools to try to get by. Mom works sixteen hour shifts and has no
idea of what goes on after Murray picks the boy up from school. What is
heartening is that nothing is simple here. Murray continues his bad
ways almost throughout, but we know he has a marshmallow center. With
all the darkness in the world, give this one a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Lee Trevino, the comedian golfer from the past, once announced in a
courtesy car I was sharing that he could say ANYTHING and the gallery
would laugh. So it is with Bill Murray. The only thing funny about this
movie was the joke he told in the 1st 30 seconds about the Porch and
the BMW.

I know now that I could never write a movie screenplay. Who would have
thought you could take a loser slob criminal, use him to teach a kid
his tricks and vices, then have the kid nominate him for sainthood at
his religious school's ceremony while detailing it all in a Power Point
presentation? All you have to do is cast Bill Murray as the loser and
presto, it's a comedy. Just in case someone like me see's through the
charade, add Vietnam War hero in the presentation which I guess
justifies the rest of his sorry life.

Hey, I wasn't in a sour mood. I kept waiting for there to be a twist to
make me like it. It didn't happen. I suggest after you get a chuckle in
the 1st 30 seconds, fast forward to the credits which are superimposed
over Murray singing Bob Dylan's SHELTER FROM THE STORM. If you enjoy
that garbage, I suppose you may like the movie.
