
A late night car chase through the cosmopolitan streets of Sofia,
Bulgaria; throbbing with that distinct and exotic coolness European
cities exude when darkness falls... it's an idea that could have been
executed very well. Unfortunately not in the case of Getaway, which
instead slaughters the idea so poorly you can't help but feel sorry for
it. 

Everyone loves a good car chase. You won't find one in Getaway though.
All the chase scenes are nothing more than a nauseating rapid
succession of very brief cuts. It's literally   impossible to get a
wider picture and understanding of what is going. Many scenes could
have been quite impressive if they had just been shot at a wider angle
and held a longer frame. This does not happen once though. The
breakneck speed at which the cuts are made (close up of car
headlights-exploding box-back wheel-driver-back to headlights) just
doesn't allow the chase to flow and is frustrating to watch. How can
one appreciate what's happening when they can't even see what's
happening?

Selena Gomez may be trying to break out of her Disney image (and good
for her) but that doesn't mean she's suited to every role. Her
performance here feels weak and definitely isn't helped by an even
weaker dialogue. Ethan Hawke's performance is more believable, but it's
only one taste bud of sweetness in the overall bad taste this movie
leaves. 

There's pretty much zero laughs, the first half is filled with the
characters bickering annoyingly, the chase scenes are visually
unwatchable, it's painfully unnecessarily noisy and the plot is nothing
but mediocre. 

Fortunately I viewed the film at an advance screening and therefore
given it was free I just felt disappointed, rather than feeling ripped
off as I would have had I actually handed over my hard earned dollars
in exchange for that mess. I tried my best to enjoy the film, but to be
honest all I wanted to do was getaway.  
<|_=00=_|>
Getaway (2013) 

BOMB (out of 4) 

What on Earth could Ethan Hawke have done that caused the producers of
this thing to be able to blackmail him into appearing in this film? In
the film, Hawke plays a former NASCAR driver whose wife is kidnapped by
some maniac on a phone (Jon Voight). This maniac forces Hawke to drive
all over the place, cause large amounts of damage and it's up to the
poor viewer to figure out why. GETAWAY is without question one of the
worst movies of the year. It takes elements of SAW, TAKEN and DRIVE and
puts them in a blender but the end result is just downright horrid. The
most shocking thing is the fact that director Courtney Solomon has made
one of the ugliest, more boring action pictures in the history of
cinema. He has bragged that no CGI was used in the car stunts but it
really doesn't matter if it's true because the scenes are so poorly
shot and many times it's just one second clips with quick editing,
which is just annoying. The entire visual style of this picture seems
like some kid got ahold of some editing equipment and didn't know what
he was doing. While watching the picture I couldn't help but think of
the director and editor in the editing room giving each other high
fives and saying "awesome" non-stop. Another problem is the dialogue,
which is just downright horrid and it's amazing that actors like Hawke
and Voight can keep a straight face while saying it. The performances
are even worse with Hawke sleep-walking through the role and every
scene just seems like he's wanting to walk away from the camera and go
home. Voight pretty much gets to do nothing except talk with a funny
accent and this adds nothing to the picture. As for Selena Gomez, I've
seen her acting ability before and it's the time I saw a dead goldfish
sitting at the bottom of its bowl. GETAWAY doesn't have a single thing
going for it but my expectations were low going in. I just never could
have imagined that a major studio would release a picture like this
into theaters. I'm sure even the low-standards of Cinemax would have
turned this thing down.
<|_=00=_|>
The "plot" follows Former race car driver Brent Magna (Played by Ethan
Hawke.) Who discovers that his wife has been kidnapped by a mysterious
man referred to as the Voice,(Played by Jon Voight.) Who promises to
promises to return her to safety if he completes a series of broad and
laughable tasks while driving through the streets of Sofia, Bulgaria in
a supped up Shelby Super Snake Mustang. Along the way, he runs into the
original owner of the Mustang named "The Kid" (Played by Selena Gomez.)

Now, at first glance it's very easy to see that this movie's plot and
characters are there to serve as a backdrop for the action, which would
at least be tolerable, if the action was any good, sadly that is not
the case here. Getaway is weighted Down by it's clunky script and
frantic direction. The action sequences are unwatchable, consisting of
exhaustingly monotonous and poorly edited car chases. And in the rare
moments where it escapes that monotony, it usually crosses the border
into unintentional hilarity.

The Acting is terrible. Though in Ethan Hawke and Selena Gomez'
defense, the horrible dialogue (which consists mostly of sh*t and
a**hole) is to more to blame then they are.

Never has a movie been more apply titled than "Getaway". Because it's
warning you to "Getaway" and avoid this clunker at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
According to another user, this movie is "brainless fun", which I
really must contend with. This movie sure is brainless, but there isn't
much fun to be found here. The script is dismal, the central plot makes
no sense, and the chase sequences are edited in the contemporary
shaky-cam style that makes it hard to tell what is going on at some
points, which really gets my goat. The whole reason I went to see this
movie is to see some kick-butt car cinematography, but there is better,
free content on youtube that I could have watched to whet my
appetite(like Ken Block's gymkhana series or vintage rally B-group
footage). To say that I am disappointed would be a lie, I had a feeling
this movie would be a dud because they hardly marketed it at all and
released at the end of summer, which is always a bad sign. 

Ethan Hawke's performance may be the only redeemable part of this
movie, as I could really tell he was working hard to make the 11th
grade level dialog work. Selena Gomez's acting was predictably sub-par,
it seems to me the only reason she was included in Getaway was to get
guys my age into the theater. And if the two other dudes in the theater
besides my friends and I are evidence, it didn't work. 

In short, don't waste your time on Getaway, watch The Transporter or
Top Gear instead to get your gearhead action fix.
<|_=00=_|>
Completely pointless. A waste of my money, hollyweird's money, baby
sitter's time, and life in general. The movie is one long chase scene.
You think I'm kidding but I'm not. They do take very small breaks
waiting for their next location assignment but it's one constant crash,
bam, boom. Must been easy for the actors to remember their lines as the
script couldn't have been more than a couple of pages. I watched it at
a local drive-in (yes they still exist) and it reminded me of the old
"B" movies but wasn't as good. Must be an "F" movie. Bring back Return
of the Killer Tomatoes! At least I could laugh at how bad it was. With
this movie I just cried.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh boy where to start....

If I'd list everything that is just utterly wrong in this movie in
terms of character motivation, logic glitches .... pages would be
filled.

A crash car derby has a plot that makes more sense. At least there you
know its all about turning cars into scrap metal. In this movie it
happens to more expensive cars and there's not really anything else
happening. Cars get destroyed left and right and you sit there and
think: "Yeah this should all be filled with tension and be exciting."
Instead i was just bored. Just in terms of making sense as a movie so
many thing were done wrong early that i felt sort of detached and was
not caring about what was happening or who it was happening to.

I did see this movie in a sneak preview screening. The audience there
is somewhat different. We were having our fun after all, because this
movie gives you so many opportunities to laugh at it. And once we were
resigned to just how bad it was, it was rather funny (unintentionally)
in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I've walked out on two movies in the last dozen+ years and this was
number 2 (pun intended). From story line to acting, this was all goofy
and bad, to say the least. Worst of all and what always drives me nuts
is the damage, oh wait, the non-damage to cars. Ya, great car. But
cars, much less the tires, can not last constantly skid, breaking,
hitting things and going down stairs. You don't miss every possible
person. The car maybe amour plated but it's still dents when you slam
it into another object. You can't scratch and dent the side of a car in
one scene to then have it without scratches and dents in the next. You
can't have bullet holes before guns are involved. The acting. Ethan,
well your Ethan Hawk, you should have chosen a better roll. Selena, you
poor thing. The way they try to make you hard made you look lame and
quite pudgy. Is s**t the big bad word that you can use to give you some
credit...I think not. Esp over used. That storyline, which is played
out, was exhausted 5 minutes into the flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad script, bad story, unbelievable scenes! What do you call it, I
think it's second hand embarrassment or shame. Within the first 20
minutes, I saw 2 people walk out of this show, and I kid you not when I
say I swear there were lots of people who slept all throughout. How
could they even release this movie? I'm all for Ethan Hawke but c'mon!
Bad chemistry between Ethan and Selena. Unbelievable scenes where you
might be wondering if this was all a joke or not. All throughout the
movie my mind was floating else where. This was so painful to watch.
I'd save money and just watch another movie if I were you. I still
can't believe this movie was actually released. Who were they kidding?!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't normally take the time to write reviews as I don't feel I have
much to add to everyone else's take. But Getaway has been so poorly
received, unjustifiably so in my opinion, that I thought I'd weigh in.

This is a popcorn movie. Nothing more. I understood that going in. It's
not high art. It doesn't revolutionize movie-making, and is not even
the high point of the genre. But it's entertaining, and that's all I
ask of a movie. Give me some popcorn and a Coke, and dim the lights,
let me forget about the world for a couple hours, and I'm happy.

The two leads are very good in my opinion. Ethan Hawke is a very
capable actor, and he brought a depth to his character that I didn't
expect. He expressed concern without being overly dramatic or gnashing
his teeth or chewing up the scenery, and conveyed his character's
limitations without appearing dumb. Selena Gomez was bright, and had
the expected attitude of someone her character's age without being
precocious or annoying.

Most of the plot was admittedly easy to figure out early on, but the
movie still provided plenty of excitement in how it got there. There
were some aspects of the story that were dismissed without explaining a
lot of detail, but it didn't rely on otherwise smart people doing dumb
things to make it all work, and I appreciated that as well.

I've read criticisms by others concerning the "shaky-cam" technique
during the chase scenes. I didn't find that to be a problem in the
least. It was much less annoying or even apparent than in movies like
Transformers. I found everything was easy to follow and served the
story well - I didn't think any style choices got in the way. And there
was one street-level point of view sequence that I thought was
especially well done - presumably a single take - that gave me a real
rush.

Overall, I enjoyed Getaway, but that may be in part because I went in
with low expectations due to its opening weekend box office and some
negative reviews. With stiff competition this summer there are
certainly better choices for your entertainment dollar. I don't know if
I'd even consider this in the top ten or twenty films this year. But
for cheap ticket at a matinée or second-run theater, or later as a
rental it's an entertaining diversion.
<|_=00=_|>
GETAWAY (2013) 0 stars Ethan Hawke, Selena Gomez, Jon Voight, Rebecca
Budig. Epically ridiculous action thriller with Hawke (dialing in his
performance flatly for a quick paycheck) as a washed-up professional
race car driver finding himself forced to steal a muscle car for an
unknown kidnapper (Voight, shot only in extreme close ups of his jowls;
ditto) who has his wife hostage and a time clock ticking. Gomez is the
unlikely owner of the super up automobile who is along for the ride and
arguably the most laughable 'techie nerd' ever (!) Courtney Solomon's
excuse for a movie is simply to show a shiny toy speed really fast and
a ton of police cars paying homage to any other action film with an
unending loop of a 'chase'. Easily the worst film of the year; heed the
titular warning - I wish I did.
