
Being a lifelong fan of animation and ballet, 'Ballerina' seemed very
appealing to me. Plus who doesn't love an underdog/person who wants to
succeed at something they love against adversity story.

While not up there with my favourite animated films, or one of my
favourite films of 2016, 'Ballerina' is nonetheless charming with a lot
of delights. It will delight the younger crowd, but fellow ballet fans
will also be charmed and there should be enough for adults to find
value. 'Ballerina' is much more than a film for "little girls" or "just
for kids" and does a good job telling a type of story that would be
relatable to anybody.

Coming from somebody who overcame disabilities and bullying and wanted
to sing professionally and get training and experience, it took a long
time but I got there and have not looked back, 'Ballerina' clicked with
me.

Of course 'Ballerina' isn't immune to flaws. The story is very familiar
and does get predictable, while the characters are very likable but
slightly skim-surface archetypes. However, this may seem very nit-picky
and can easily be ignored by people and only problems for the toughest
of critics.

Aside from these, there were also reservations with some of the
soundtrack and one voice cast member. The music is often beautiful and
infectious, with some genuine enchantment, but could have done with
more classical music choices and less pop. A good deal of the pop tunes
are very catchy, but more Tchaikovsky would have suited the film better
and been more dynamic and a few others grate. Dane DeHaan doesn't sound
right as Victor and doesn't fit, sounding too mature for a character
clearly intended to be much younger, either he should have tried to
sound younger and more boyish or the character should have been voiced
by somebody in his late-teens.

However, the animation is very good, often excellent, especially in the
beautifully studied and meticulous background details and the intricate
and graceful choreography that synchronises with the music very well
and shows animators that have clearly done their homework. As said, the
soundtrack does mostly work, while the script makes a real attempt to
appeal to both children and adults (being a family film) and, with a
nice mix of humour, pathos and life values and never being
over-complicated or childish, it does succeed.

The story, even with the familiarity and predictability, goes at a neat
pace and as well as having a lot of charm and heart the messaging never
comes over as preachy and very much valuable. It is also easy to see
why anybody would find it inspiring and easy to relate to, as a young
adult both were very easy for me. Even though archetypal, the
characters are still likable, the title character has her flaws but it
is easy to quickly warm to her. The voice acting, DeHaan aside, is
strong, with Elle Fanning and Carly Rae Jensen bringing emotion and
spirit to their characters and Maddie Ziegler stealing the show.

In summary, a familiar film but a very charming one and one to be seen
without prejudice. 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Something tells me there's more to the film than just a wannabe
ballerina setting out to achieve her dreams. I could be very wrong but
I believe his to be a personal accomplishment for French
director/screenplay writer Eric Summer who comes from Brittany himself,
where this story starts at an orphanage in 1879. 

Enlisting the talent of French animator who was partly responsible for
one of my favourite animated movies, Belleville Rendez-vous, Éric Warin
sits alongside Summer in the director's chair and what they give us is
a delightful underdog story. 

The focus of the story is on Félicie, voiced by Elle Fanning, an
ambitious yet rebellious orphan girl who dreams of becoming a dancer,
constantly attempting to flee the orphanage to Paris, in pursuit of her
ambition. 

She's not alone in either dream-chasing or escaping the orphanage.
Victor, voiced by Dane DeHaan, an obvious admirer of hers also wishes
to leave to become a famous inventor, so the two of them embark on an
adventure finally reaching Paris and with various strokes of good
fortunate, end up where they both want to be. 

The voices don't necessarily match their characters, DeHaan being far
to old (apologies, 30 isn't old, but...) to voice a teenage orphan. Pop
singer Carly Rae Jepsen does a fine job of voicing broken ballerina,
Odette, but I'm most impressed with Sia's music video dancing star,
Maddie Ziegler, voicing the spoilt, stuck-up Camille. 

It has all the ingredients of a simple yet pleasing underdog story with
some impressive and enticing animation. The dances themselves are
superbly gracefully and the details are brilliant. There's troublesome
emotions, difficult choices and quite a few triumphs with a clear
message of never giving up and what ever you do, do it with heart. 

It's predictable but that's forgivable being a children's film. It's
loaded with touching gestures and typical twists that make the film
memorable but is equally loaded with unnecessary silliness and feels a
little rushed in places, possibly to keep children's attention. 

It's not a musical but the soundtrack that accompanies the film really
stands out with some great tracks from Magical Thinker, Chantal
Kreviazuk and Camila Mora. Klaus Badelt does a graceful and enchanting
score that does well to stand alone from Tchaikovsky's ballet greats of
Swan Lake and the Nutcracker. 

It's good sign not hearing any disturbances for the young audience and
my God-Daughter seemed to enjoy it giving a little dance at the end.
It's far from perfect but there's some great scenes and you can see the
effort was put in. It's good light-hearted entertainment for the whole
family. 

Running Time: 8 The Cast: 6 Performance: 7 Direction: 7 Story: 8
Script: 7 Creativity: 8 Soundtrack: 9 Job Description: 9 The Extra
Bonus Points: 0

69% 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tired of watching modern dance movies that has you say: Another one of
Hollywood street dancer groups with all its acrobatics that must have
come from America's got talent aiming for Hollywood that tosses aside
the traditional dance of Ballet? 

Produced at L'Atelier Animation in Montreal, Canada, Ballerina (2016)
is majestic at all levels from the animation to the story itself. 

A basic story of a young orphaned girl Félicie (Elle Fanning) who
dreams to become a ballerina leaves with her friend Victor (Dane
DeHaan) who also has a dream that of becoming a famous inventor, both
go to Paris to meet their destiny.

What makes this a beautiful animation is that the story is not bogged
by irrelevant metaphors or irony that distracts from the story that
would have us distracted to the relevance of the movie based on
something that could happen anywhere such as achieving one's goal. One
does not say during the film that this scene is ridiculous that it
diverts us from the message.

A success indeed. 

First of all, the story itself. Set back in the 1800's where Paris is
growing and where all hope is possible and notwithstanding the fact
that Félicie (Elle Fanning) will take the identity of another person
Camille Le Haut (Maddie Ziegler) is not new in the move world. Yet, the
story progresses logically to have her be discovered as a fraud. What
Merante (Terrence Scammell) sees in Félicie when he discovers the truth
is what he sees in himself, one with passion. As a fact when he says to
Camille and Felicie why they dance, in his harshness in his selection
of candidates lies his humanity. He doesn't insult Camille but asks her
why she dances? 

Here we have the theme: Are we born to dance or do we become dancers
that can be applied in all aspects of society? Are we born with a gift
or do we become the gift?

Secondly, the choreography is absolutely amazing. It compares with all
the acrobatics seen on America's got talent or in movies such as Rocky
Balboa. Remember his training against this Russian guy? We see two
types of training, the natural versus the mechanical training using
modern equipment. 

What about the competitive choreography between the two girls? Superbe!

If the film gave me shivers three times then I admit to the success of
the film animation to have struck a chord in me. And, if my grandchild
was able to relate to his life one scene which was the union of Félicie
and as Odette (Carly Rae Jepsen) and which has also brought me back to
when I bought tickets to the Ballet then I consider this animation a
true marvel to which I give 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I praise a lot, particularly the European animations for
preserving the 2D animation. That does not mean they lack behind in 3D
format. The recent film 'The Little Prince' was the perfect example of
a quality 3D animation outside Hollywood. Pars with Disney, Pixar
standards. Technically, as well as the story contents. But the
quantities are very less and also making it a bit expensive. So they
usually prefer producing it in the English language for the
wider/international market, keeping North America particularly in mind.
This is a French English-language film that co-produced by Canada.

This is a nice film, that particularly targets little kids and mostly
the girl audience to inspire Ballerina. Cute characters and scenes, but
very familiar story. Shares lots of similarities with 'August Rush',
except the field of interest. I am not an expert or know all about
Ballet, but some of the parts involving them were turned me off. I know
the gravitation force is irrelevant in animation since they're not real
world to comply with science, but maybe I'm being an adult and knowing
that stuff might have influenced me to think that way. It reminds me
I'm really an adult, though this film should be watched as a kid
despite whatever you are. However, nothing affected me from enjoying
it.

It sets in the 80s of the 19th century France. At the time when Eiffel
Tower and Statue of Libery were on the construction, a poor orphan girl
named Felicie escapes orphanage with another boy to pursue her dream to
be a ballerina. Then they arrive in Paris, and very soon they find
their separate ways to achieve the goals. Not all smooth sail,
especially for her. So she takes the opportunity that comes her way,
even after knowing it was wrong to do.

❝You have something that she can only dream of: passion!❞

From there, with all the complications tailing her, how far she could
go to make her dream come true. Which also includes the amount of
dedication put on her undertaking to meet the expectations of her
trainer, rivals and many others. And to show the world the interest is
not simply based on enthusiasm, but willingness to sacrifice anything
for it. Her journey from nothing to the edge of something new to define
her life is the film that briefs for just short of 90 minutes.

This is not another 'Billy Elliot'. Animations are usually comedy,
fantasy and musical, but recently the adventures and science fictions
are surging. I don't remember I ever have seen an animated dance flick.
Not the classical dance, not in the modern 3D animation format. The
closest one was a decade old 'Happy Feet'. So that makes it is a unique
product and comes under a must see for all the animation fans. But the
storyline is predictable and many sequences were intentionally dragged
to be cliché. Because it works, particularly if they're aiming for the
younger generation who haven't seen many films in their lives. Only we
the grownups whine.

Most of the voice-over artists are well known Americans actors which
boosted the film. The character combinations are good. It brought the
variety, especially slightly to ride off the main theme in a few
occasions. Like the boy's interest in inventing things which were other
major parts of the twist and turns in the narration. It is not a great
animation if it was from Hollywood, but coming from France and the
theme it focused on, the effort must be appreciated. Overall a much
better film than what the average reviews and ratings around the
internet says. It is a ballet film means not those who love it should
watch it, but those target audience should not miss it. That means
generally worth a watch, but not for everyone.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to keep this short with a list of positives and negatives;

Positives: It looks beautiful, both the settings and the movements.

Negatives: Horrible story. Terribly written dialogues, characters and
comedy. The action scene at the end makes no sense and comes out of
nowhere. The moral of the story seems to say that it's OK to cheat and
lie, for as long as you have passion everything will work out. Music
that doesn't fit the scene, mood or time-frame. Horrendous voice
acting, going for "star power" instead of talent.
<|_=00=_|>
Im a huge fan for animation, I heard about this movie and didn't really
know what to expect. What I got was a beautiful movie with the positive
messages of chasing your dreams and never giving up on them no matter
how hard things may seem.

I do kinda wish the subplot of victor could have tied in more with the
main focus of Felicie but it is what it is, I ain't complaining.

Finally, It was hilarious and very charming too. Perfect for families.
Enjoy the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this just few days ago in a local theater. In brief:

The good: + Great visuals + Nice music + Cool story

The bad: - Teen pop in a music about classical ballet! - Daisy
Dukes-like pants in a 1900 France?

So generally I enjoyed the movie. It is sort of Cinderella story. My
little one did not wanted to see it, so I went alone. However, this is
a movie about classical ballet. There are few moments, where they
actually are supposed to dance on a classical music background, so in
the beginning of the movie there is a scene with the music from Swan
Lake, in the middle of the movie there is a ballet school with
classical music background and in the end, the final scene is supposed
to be showing The Nutcracker, however on this one they play (*drumroll
please*) ... CHEESY TEEN POP!!! Yep, that's right - we get ballerinas
dancing ballet, supposedly on the music of the Nutcracker, but instead
there is some cheesy teen pop! This is the major fail I talk about.
Seriously, you cannot ruin a movie in such a bad way normally. No idea
what talent you need to come up with such a stupid idea. Instead play
the Nutcracker music for a minute until the credits start to flow, then
transition to the teen pop. Would be much better, but no - they failed
it. Also - in 1900 France they show us a girl wearing leggings and
something similar to daisy dukes on top. Hellooooo? Reality check here?
There is no such a girl, even in Paris in 1900s which would wear such a
thing.

But again - in general the movie is fun and amusing, despite the few
horrible moments I mentioned. It is also little surreal, as they show
some pretty cool flying, but it's a cartoon after all, so I don't mind
the daisy dukes so much (but I seriously do mind the music!).

Bring your kids, enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Although there are many children's movies in recent memory that appeal
to aspiring singers, the offering of films and even television shows
for aspiring dancers is dismal. It's not like there isn't an audience.
How many millions of young girls across the world take ballet classes?
"Leap!" offers an alternative to recent children's movies like "Sing"
to cater to all the aspiring dancers and ballerinas among us.

"Leap!" truly captures the magic of Paris at the turn of the century.
As far as an animated film can anyways. The scenes of Paris's
cobblestone roads and the Eiffel tower under construction are
mesmerizing. Although the animation isn't necessarily top-notch for
2016, it is decent enough to be entertaining. "Leap!" tells the tale of
an orphan from Brittany named Félicie, a fierce and strong spirited
redhead who strongly resembles Anastasia from the iconic 1997 flick in
both appearance and backstory. Félicie is an orphan who doesn't know
her parents or origins. Her only link to her past is a music box with a
dancer which sparks a passion for dance that leads her on a journey to
Paris where she steals the identity of a cruel aristocrat's daughter
named Camille Le Haut to join the Paris Opera Ballet in her place. She
is accompanied by an aspiring inventor named Victor who becomes Gustave
Eiffel's assistant and almost names the Statue of Liberty, "The Statue
of Puberty". 

While the story of "Leap!" isn't exactly unique, the best part of the
narrative is the girl positive message. Although there is a chosen
romantic lead for the main character, this side-story doesn't
overshadow the broader story of overcoming adversity and rivalry. The
lack of romance in the film makes it more realistic and puts it in
stark contrast to Disney's usual offering. Felicie and her rival
ultimately compete for the role of Clara in The Nutcracker. Guided by
her mentor, the retired dancer Odette, Felicie overcomes her lack of
formal training and becomes very talented. At one point, Odette tells
Felicie, "Build on this. Feel your anger and your pain and your sorrow
and your joy, and put it all into your dance. Live the music, feel it.
Every note, every sound, every harmony needs to have your body
vibrating from the end of your hair to the tips of your toes. And then,
and only then, will you take her down". The rivalry between Félicie and
Le Haut culminates in a final fight scene that occurs on the top of the
Eiffel tower. 

Overall, adults may find "Leap!" enjoyable on its own. But it is
definitely made for kids. At least the soundtrack was on point. From
classic ballet music to Demi Lovato and modern pop. If you have a
daughter, or son for that matter, who has ever shown interest in
dancing or ballet. Then your child simply must watch this movie.
Another one like it won't come out for a while. That makes it a
parental obligation.
<|_=00=_|>
Leap! is a great film with a big meaning. This film teaches it all -
honesty, perseverance and the importance of practice, family, believing
in yourself, believing in your dreams and passion. Felicie makes a lot
of mistakes during her journey, which set her back, but that doesn't
stop her from continuing to push through.

The story begins when Felicie and her best friend, Victor escape from
an orphanage. They take a train to Paris so that Felicie can attend a
dance school there and Victor can become an inventor. They arrive in
Paris without any money. During their journey, they encounter many
challenges. As Felicie meets new people, a love conflict arises as well
as a conflict with a wealthy lady who is pure evil and wants to crush
Felicie's dream. 

A wealthy woman Regine (Kate McKinnon) is cruel, rude and arrogant, but
a boy with a crush on Felicie protects her from Regine. McKinnon makes
Regine sound totally wicked in a bad but great way. The boy, Victor
(Natt Wolf) is portrayed as a timid, but an optimistic and caring
friend. 

The animation in this film is spectacular! It is very detailed and
their mouths move with the words they are saying so well the animated
characters seem real. The voice acting is spot on. The voices are
filled with emotion and an inspiration to the audience, including me. 

My favorite part is when Felicie watches a ballerina at the French
dance school. She takes just one look at the ballerina's dance and
knows she wants to dance and that she can dance. You can really see
Felicie's passion for dancing right there. The whole movie is all about
passion and the movie will inspire viewers to follow their dreams.

The message of this film is to follow your dreams. It show how, in
order to succeed, you have to work very hard, believe in yourself and
have passion. Felicie is an exemplary role model. 

Leap! is a very inspirational film with a very important lesson and a
pleasure to watch. I give it 5 out of 5 stars and recommend it for ages
3 to 18. Adults will love this movie as well. I really enjoyed watching
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Ballerina is a great french-Canadian animation film about 2 waifs who
escape their orphanage and go to Paris to reach their dreams & never
give up, Félicie (Elle Fanning) with a passion a natural talent for
dance & Victor (Dane Dehaan) an inventor. Beautiful music, landscapes &
sceneries, a Belle Époque tale that involves the construction of the
Eiffel Tower & the Statue of Liberty. A kindly maid & a distinguished
professor manage her to succeed. A movie for the whole family.
