
I don't usually write reviews but this was such a disappointment that I
felt I had to put something. Most of the good jokes were shown in the
trailers, so if you've seen the trailer then it's probably not worth
the money. There were 3 of us watched this and although we all loved
the despicable movies none of us enjoyed this. My son (11) said it felt
like it was 2 hours long it was so boring. I can't really explain why
it came across as so poor - but it just seemed really lazy and without
Gru to play against the Minnions were just to simple. It was slapstick
with no soul. The music although quite good didn't really seem to fit
the film - just seemed to be tacked on at bit were they felt they
should have a soundtrack and a famous song. Buy yourself a copy of
despicable me and watch it again and again. Much better value for
money! This just felt rushed, with loads of stock jokes, maybe hoping
enough of them would hit the mark - they didn't.
<|_=00=_|>
What an enviable list of voice-over stars. 

What fun characters mouthing multi-language pseudo-meaninged gibberish
(as opposed to just gibberish). 

What a great start with a series of interesting minion history snippets
(all of them already in the trailer - yes, those are the best bits and
nothing else in the rest of the movie comes close).

What frustration when the gear just gets stuck - and the whole thing
numbingly grinds into predictable land with uninteresting plot, an
array of boring characters  blah blah  and ends up just another
multimillion gibberish animation.

After the first 10 mins, Minions is plagued by too many unnecessary
pointless characters, plain villains, inconsequential dialogue and
actions  and the boredom (and depression) that the Minions experience
on screen is unfortunately also paralleled at the same time by the
audience and never really lifted up after that.

Surprisingly, Allison Janney's character and voice was the most
distinctive, but it was only a minor role. Sandra Bullock's villain
Scarlett Overkill is way underdone, and the character visualization
lacks any wickedly engaging factor, just boringly unlikeable. Jon
Hamm's character adds nothing at all to the flimsy plot and his voice
is too generic to matter as to who is doing it. All the other stars had
inconsequential and indistinctive who-cares voice-overs.

The whole thing is so bland that the leery voice of Young Gru (Steve
Carrell) right at movie's end was such a welcomed relief - at last (and
alas it was the end) a little promise of inventive fun  but way too
late.

Watch it, but don't expect too much and you'd probably be mildly
entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
You'd be hard-pressed to find a historical account that acknowledges
the influence (much less the existence of) the Minions throughout time.
No matter how many textbooks are produced and released each year,
almost ZERO of them note the presence of this incredibly powerful
minority group. 

Well, where history has silenced the Minions, let this surprisingly
accurate documentary speak volumes. I found no embellishments of
history throughout this 91-minute feature. It would have been easy to
swing the pendulum of power to overemphasize the history of the Minions
as it relates to major world events, but the filmmakers didn't go for
the easy shots. They simply told the truth, and what we are left with
are the clear facts of what really happened to the dinosaurs, the
cavemen, and--what I'm sure will be most controversially-- the true
lineage of royalty in England. Very bold.

If this doesn't win the Oscar for Documentary Feature, we will truly
know which side of history the Academy stands on.
<|_=00=_|>
with all the sponsorship of all kinds of commercial products and
exhibitions and promotions this rubbish has become a must-see and
nobody dares to say a bad word against it because you are not sure
people dare to agree with you while in fact almost everybody falls
asleep in the theater. you could only keep quiet during and after
seeing the movie. the story is not suitable for children. the plot is
so weak it can hardly called a comedy. the characters are a bunch of
scrambles. a total disappointment. the only thing i could do is to
sigh. in this generation we are living in a pool of propaganda.
popularity rules.
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided watching Despicable Me for a long time. I just didn't like
the look of it. But as it turned out, I loved the film when I was
eventually coerced into seeing it by one of my nephews. It was thanks
to him that I also liked the second movie. As for the third movie, I
don't know why some IMDb users are complaining that this movie is more
suitable for 'kids and families'. It seems odd to expect anything more
from The Minions when that is the main target audience! I watched this
film with my own family and since this was the first time I took my
toddler to the cinema, it makes it extra special. I enjoyed the movie,
laughed out at several points and liked it even more to see how much my
daughter loved it. We all had a good time and there were no complaints
at all. This one, like Despicable Me 1 and 2, was great entertainment,
lots of villainy and slapstick humour. It is the best kids animation
I've seen in a long time. A lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
My seven year old was excited to see it. I expected it to be pish. But
it was worse than I imagined. I fell asleep a few times but the
annoying yelling pretend dialogue woke me up. I couldn't even get a nap
out of my wasted afternoon. At least I didn't have to worry about my
kid laughing too loudly and disturbing anyone else's sleep. He got
bored too. Just utter crap. They clearly spent a lot on the music. The
Beatles, the kinks, and van Halens eruption as a guitar solo at the
merciful end to this travesty of a film. If only they had spent the
money on a scriptwriter rather than the over- caffeinated sixth graders
they got hopped up on juice boxes before handing them some paper to
defecate on and call that a script. The humor in the film was non
existent. I expected lots of broad fart jokes and low brow stupidity
aimed at chimps, five year olds, and the same kind of morons who made
Kevin James a star. What I got was obvious pop culture references not
as punchlines or set up for jokes. Just there. As if the existence of a
reference to something recognizable was in and of itself funny. Perhaps
it served as a confidence booster for the gump-like, slack jawed,
troglodytes that were the target audience. They could all feel jolly
clever after recognizing such obscure references as the Beatles. Well
done. If I had a time machine and only choose to change one thing in
the pas, forget hitter, I would go back to stop whoever green lit this
cinematic excretion.
<|_=00=_|>
First, as I mentioned in the title of the minions movie definitely had
to be done. Because it is one of the most important elements bearing
the serial Despicable Me minions. Despicable Me minions in the series
of the effect of being so famous too big. This film has been put very
clever jokes. And Despicable Me keeps it also replaces the series has
been really fun. England have made a nice joke. But I think that
members of IMDb get a little serious. Because it shows voting. Overall
I think this is an animated film would not hurt a little joke. Here I
saw a lot of flying animation and animation scores this could be a bit
better. But unfortunately IMDb's not tolerate this kind of thing.
Despicable Me series of lovers almost think I will get the same
pleasure. In addition, this film is graced with great rock musics
director for Kyle Balda and Pierre Coffin thanks.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sitting in the nearly vacant theater on premiere night and thinking
somewhere there must be a struggling movie maker pondering how
Hollywood could pump millions into this pedestrian cartoon babble and
not into his or her creation? If you feel like you have to see this
movie I have four suggestions: 1) pop in any CD of Back to the Barnyard
and watch 3 episodes, 2) pop in any Penguins of Madagascar CD or its
variants, 3) watch the Croods, but with the sound off, or 4) bang your
head against the wall with medium impact for 1 1/2 hours. The best
thing about this movie was the short running time, even with the
pressure these days to fill and expand movie lengths this was so spare
to begin with that they had no place else to go. One other alternative
is to watch the trailer 100 times. My son just barely made it through,
he gave it a 6 1/2 on the way out. Most of the (unintelligible) lines
are in Minion gibberish, maybe this was a good thing? I mean it when I
say pass 'em by.
<|_=00=_|>
The popularity and the huge profits of Despicable Me franchise has
driven the eagerness of Illumination Entertainment to produce a minions
spin-off solely to entertain the fans. Caught in variations of the same
scenarios, the decision to put more focus on the three minions - Kevin,
Stuart and Bob might remind audiences about Alvin and the Chipmunks or
the three daughters of Gru. While the animation does remain the fun,
hilarious and ridiculous behaviors of the characters, the theme of the
scores and the nonsensical language of the minions, it does not have a
strong villain to support the three, also it lacks of character
development, warm emotional engagement and moral values. The cuteness
of the minions is the main element for entertainment rather than the
dialogue itself in which the jokes aren't as funny as Despicable Me's
series. Nonetheless, it is still energetic, actions packed, visually
stunning and colorful for family audiences even its creative mistake
drags its overall quality, proving that these banana lovers are far
more effective and surprising to be supporting characters just as in
the main franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Words fail both me and my girlfriend in describing this awful piece of
digested food. This movie is bad even by kid standards and, frankly, I
don't think they could've managed to ruin the Minions any better. Half
the dialog in this movie is in Minionese, of which nothing can be
understood. The jokes are so bad, all they managed was get a single
l.o.l. out of us. Nope, not a laugh, a l.o.l. The "villainesse" is
boring, overdone and, frankly, unforgettable for how bad she is. Even
the Minions are boring (how they accomplished that is beyond me). To
say nothing of the way they portrayed the Queen of England and England
itself. I'm Romanian and it still made me angry! If you want to watch
this, just don't. Spare yourself the time, boredom and probably money
and SEE SOMETHING ELSE.
