
Had a lot of promise... poor acting let it down. Oh and the special
effects was laughable. It was looking OK on the first act but when the
monsters started appearing, I just felt sorry for the director and
actors involved. I heard from insiders that the producers rushed this
movie so they could be entered in the Metro Manila Film Festival. 

My advise for the director Erik Matti, next time hire good lead actors.
Keep the intent, but get stronger actors. 

Ramon Bautista was also a huge let down. I was counting on him for some
comic relief but he could not deliver his lines effectively. Looked
like a deer in the headlights. 

Joey Marquez was a poor choice as Janice De Belen's husband. How he was
selected for the part, I don't know. Must have been a special favor. 

The only shining light on this was Janice De Belen. She nailed her
part.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is ridiculously awful. Let me point out the ugly points. 

1.) Color correction made the film more unrealistic (not to mention the
plot is already unrealistic). 

2.) Lots of flaws in the script (ridiculously unrealistic script.

ie. The kid's father died, he seems a LITTLE affected at first, but
hours later he seems enjoying himself killing beast/mutants/tik-tik.
and worst, he killed the enemies with "GARLIC FLAVORED" snacks. 

3.)The rifle seems to have unlimited bullets.

4.) This film is a big ADVERTISEMENT for product brands everywhere.
from cigarette to snacks,candies,soaps etc. 

5.) Terribly initiated ending, I mean really? she just splashed the
Beast leader with salt? they could have done that from the start. It
seems like the intellect of people portrayed in the film is that of a
10 year old.

--

Don't, just don't ever waste your time with this garbage. cant believe
I've sit through the end of this crap. you've been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
It is true what they say that Tiktik is not just your typical
action-horror film. Yes, that is very true. It is action-packed, that I
agree. But I don't think I can categorize it as a horror movie in my
book. The scary factors in horror stories are not present in this film.
My rating for Shock and Scare is half a heart. So there, no need to be
wary of watching this movie because you have a weak heart. Tiktik is
more of an action-comedy with just a tiny bit element of horror because
of the human-eating monsters). But for Laughter and Tears, I give it 4
hearts! It was a really fun movie to watch.

Joey Marquez was his usual funny stupid but with a big heart character.
I must admitseeing him again after a very long time of absence in
movies, I realized that I kinda missed his antics. Janice was also
funny as the typical nagging wife and mother. Ramon Bautista, on the
other hand, was a nice and fresh addition. Contrary to what I expected,
he was not overacting or corny. He delivered a natural and right amount
of comic expressions. Lovi Poe also gave what was required from her and
did not overdo it. Like what Eugene Domingo calls a "No Acting Acting"
:) The lines and their delivery were simply perfect! Even Dingdong
Dantes, whom I never really liked, was great at being an ass****. A
natural! Oh, I meant that in a good way, okay? Writer-Director of this
film, Erik Matti, made the right choices in his personally hand-picked
actors to play these roles.

So, for Character Performance I give Tiktik 4.5 gems . Considering that
the actors had to act frightened out of their wits by monsters that
they don't even see. They were all believable. And oh, let's not forget
the villains and their remarkable performances and saliva-dripping
appearances. They acted in all seriousness of their monster characters,
especially the two patriarchal figures: Mike Gayoso as the avenging
father of the mischievous teenage monsters; and Roi Vinzons as the
powerful head of the monsters' tribe.

It would be hard to separate ratings for Cinematography and Special FX,
since Tiktik was shot entirely in green screen and everything depended
on computer graphics animation. I was really impressed with the opening
credits. It's the first Filipino movie I've seen where the creators
really put in too much time and effort in the artistry of the opening
credits. It was like watching the opening credits of Batman or
Spider-man. Wellnot really but almost! And that's saying something,
right? READ FULL REVIEW here -->
http://heblogs-sheblogs.com/topics/arts-lit/
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING BITS OF SPOILERS AHEAD

I watched the movie, and I began to wonder about the sets used, the
props the acting and most importantly the story. So with each passing
minute I waited for a wholesome story, what I found was plain and utter
bullshit. The acting is laughable, I think the only actor that I like
was Dingdong Dante's character because he puts his effort in acting,
the rest look stupid and forced to act, the sets look nice, but too
small, and the CGI, while some are good, some are bad, The director &
writers of this film should have realized how much they failed as a
filmmaker. I watched the movie, laughing and at the same time
disappointed, there are characters in the film that proved to be
useless, and I swear I heard a 'Predator' snarl in one scene and I
think I just saw Ryuk from Death Note. I mean ain't that like
plagiarizing content, some scenes and story-wise are cliché'd, the
characters in the film are dumb enough to not know that the 'aswang'
are inside, and as a critic on the net said: "How can I take it
seriously, If the film doesn't even take it self seriously." Those are
the words that echoed in my head, as I watched the film. 

No wonder the film bombed at box office, losing it's 50 million peso
budget to Vice Ganda's "This Guy's in love with you Mare". A low budget
comedy that went on to sell millions. Tiktik The Aswang Chronicles is a
huge waste of money. 

It proves that these P.O.S should never be made. The filmmakers should
be ashamed of themselves.
