
Spoilers and review coming from a Spider-Man fan. I want to say if I
knew nothing about Spider-Man, this movie was good. But sadly I loved
him and grew up with spidey. The movie was a typical marvel movie and
funny at parts. But the rest, they hurt my inner child ruining spidey. 

Tom Holland was a great Peter Parker and Spider-Man. But the producers
and creative team behind this, ruined Spider-Man. I don't know how Stan
lee could could happy with this. My god. They ruined Spider-Man.
Spider-Man never needed a high tech suit, with all the gadgets and a
damn voice helping him like batman and iron man. They made him look
pathetic and took away his intelligence. Spider man relied on his
abilities, not tech. This movie made iron man look responsible for the
creation and power behind Spider-Man. Any kid could have been
potentially Spider-Man with iron mans help then. Other than sticking to
walls according to this movie. No spidey sense and no further
explanation on his abilities. 

Next, the flash. My god what were they thinking with him? A small
Indian kid, smaller than tom Holland even?? Not a jock and hardly
intimidating. That's not flash. He's suppose to be a dumb jock and
bully. Not a hardly noticeable nerd bully on a math team picking on
Peter. 

Aunt may. What...why they make her a hot mom figure. She's suppose to
be old, not long luscious hair and sexy. People hitting on her all the
time. Why?? 

Spider-Mans webbing was lame and made him look oblivious to using it.
He barely created it, tony did all the work. Other than a moment in
class we saw him making some and the end where he used his old webbing. 

His love interest was lame and they made the vulture her dad??? Really?
And then end put a nail in the coffin. The Michelle random
character....calling herself MJ. Please no. She cannot be or replace
Mary Jane. And can't even nod to Gwen Stacy. 

There was so much political correct crap in this. I don't mind changing
the characters into other races, but doing it just for the sake of
doing it was lame. Making flash Indian, making his friend who also
could be the hobgoblin Asian, and probably maybe getting rid of Mary
Jane as Michelle who is black. Does Hollywood have something against
red heads?? Every girl or hero who has red hair in the comics is never
ginger. 

The shocker was terrible. No custom and lame. And they needed two of
him too? Stupid. 

Just everything about this movie killed my inner child and spat in my
face for making comic book and cartoons of my beloved Spider-Man a
waste of time. 

Oh and people figured out who Spider-Man was quickly. The vulture, his
friend, iron man obviously, and drum roll....his aunt may. Already aunt
may?? Unless they make another movie and add a dumb excuse like, oh I
just like the costume and I made one. How stupid. 

I'm sorry to tom Holland for being involved in this. This was not a
true version of Spider- Man. If you know nothing of Spider-Man then
you'll probably enjoy this movie. But if you know anything about him,
his story and who he is, Hollywood shat on it. 

RIP spidey in the movies. They can't get a simple concept down of him.
They have to add a bunch of garbage. 

This is my one big review of a movie and I never bothered to make one
this in depth, but I couldn't keep it in. Plus the post credit scene
was even lamer at the very end. To add to that, they brought back the
ugliest captain America costume that made him look like a joke in the
first avengers.
<|_=00=_|>
With good CGI and an interesting take on The Vulture, but extremely
cringy jokes forced in seemingly every line of dialogue, bad acting by
everyone except Keaton and Holland, and the inexplicable reason to have
Iron Man & his tech dominate a film that isn't even his (and make
Spider-Man seem weak/dependent). SM: Homecoming is disappointing. 4/10

... *Spoilers* (Compensating for shockingly overrated reviews)

I don't want it to seem like I'm a hater. I love Spider-Man. He's my
favorite Marvel hero and one of the first ones I ever followed as a
kid. But, that doesn't mean I can just ignore this very flawed film,
especially when critics are unfairly over-inflating reviews for Marvel
movies again (literally every one gets 90%+ when maybe 1/3 of them
deserve that high.. fishy) and even mentioning it in the same sentence
as "greatest superhero film ever" when in reality, it's not even the
best Spider-Man movie.

Let's start with the bad. First, the jokes. Literally almost every line
of dialogue in the movie had extremely cringy jokes forced in centering
around immature and stupid things like puberty, Larb (you'll understand
once you see it), male body parts (repeatedly, Flash is soooo clever
with that joke man), pretend-hugging to open doors, and Zendaya's
hipster girl hating on everything & flicking off the camera for no
reason. I understand Peter's in High School, but the jokes were
INSULTINGLY juvenile & unbearable even by MCU's joke standards (which
have been bad). I really want to like Marvel's movies and do for many
of them like Civil War and Winter Soldier, but I cannot explain this
weird trend they've been on recently to kill their own movies with
overloaded humor and make the movies jokes instead of art.

Also, the acting and characters except for Michael Keaton and Tom
Holland were just horrible. Usually don't go into superhero movies
expecting Oscar-level acting unless it's The Dark Knight, but this was
so bad I felt the need to point it out. Spider-Man's overly giddy best
friend is annoying and overdone in superhero movies, while every other
supporting character like Zendaya's hipster girl who hates everything,
Flash Thompson who is completely miscast, and Aunt May who people
bizarrely crush over are dull, uninteresting, and badly acted.

Next, the one I came into the theater fearing the most: Iron Man and
his tech DOMINATED the movie when it's not even his. I like Iron Man,
but his forced shoehorning into a movie he had no business being in was
a hated decision by many from the beginning (myself included), but was
worse than I thought it'd be. He, Happy, and his tech in the suit
literally make up 3/4 of the movie, so much that it's made to seem like
Spider-Man is weak and dependent on Stark's tech when in the comics he
doesn't have an ounce of that sophisticated tech. Also, he is belittled
by Tony constantly, a fact that as a Spider-Man fan, I find absolutely
infuriating when Spider-Man is Marvel's best/most recognizable hero.

Finally, the film is riddled with plot holes, action scenes not nearly
as wowing as other superhero films, and forced diversity. Spoilers-
E.g., how could aunt May not see Peter's suit when he reveals to Ned
for the first time and puts it on the ground when she walks in? Also,
the movie begins after Avengers in 2012, then jumps "8 years" to 2020
but is after Civil War in 2016??.. The diversity in the movie is so
overly forced to copy WW's praised real diversity that it ends up
rubbing off the wrong way like it's a last-second afterthought to
increase box office #'s instead of cleverly working it in. Every single
couple in the movie is biracial, which is cheating diversity-wise as
it's the easiest by FAR to write in. Finally, there were sequences that
were just dumb, like the selfie video sequence that lasted a good 15
minutes in the beginning of the film. 

While there was a tornado of cons, I looked for positives too. There
were bright spots. For one, the new suit looks great. Having an All-CGI
suit was actually a good idea as it came out beautifully, even if I
hate how they made it too tech-based. The CGI throughout the film was
admittedly good as well, especially in Vulture's case, although with an
insane budget like this movie had, that should be a given instead of an
achievement. Holland was a good Spider-Man, although he sometimes
overplayed the role by talking too much.

Also, Michael Keaton as The Vulture was great. Keaton is a gifted actor
(Batman!) and gives a new light to a previously cheesy villain and
makes him likable. His character was well fleshed-out and his take on
the character fascinating, which is why he should be even more upset
the rest of the movie did not perform to his level.

Overall, I came in wanting to love this movie as much as I loved the
originals, but was very disappointed. Convinced there is something
going on here as I cannot possibly explain how the MCU gets 90's every
time from critics, influencing the public perception into wanting to
agree based on the basic psychological want to agree with people of
perceived higher authority like critics instead of thinking
differently.

Raimi's Spider-Man 2 = still the best Spider-Man film by almost EVERY
metric of cinema.

Most Memorable Moment: Plane-side Spider-Man vs Vulture fight

Pros: Good CGI and a great Spider-Man suit, good performance by Holland
although occasionally overacted, great performance by Keaton

Cons: Extremely cringy jokes forced in seemingly every line of
dialogue, bad acting and characters except Holland/Keaton, Iron Man and
his tech dominate Spider-Man's movie and make him seem weak/dependent,
plot holes, forced diversity by lazily making every couple biracial
instead of writing in cleverly, action scenes not as wowing as previous
MCU entries

Rating: 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Did the Homecoming writers actually think that pushing together the 2
split halves of the ferry boat would stop the boat from sinking? And
why did Iron Man just fly away after pushing the 2 split halves of the
ferry boat together, without even checking if any of the passengers
might be injured and need to be air-lifted to a hospital? And why were
there cars on the Staten Island Ferry? Don't the writers know that cars
haven't been allowed on the Staten Island Ferry after 9/11? And why
doesn't Spider-Man have Spider-Sense in MCU? When Peter ditched Liz at
the Homecoming dance and leaves the building, he gets ambushed outside
by 1 of the bad guys. No way that should happen with Spider-Sense. So
he definitely doesn't have Spider-Sense in MCU.

Also, the absurdity of the Washington Monument scene. The elevator of
the Washington Monument gets blown up by a bomb that the fat kid had.
DHS would've interrogated the fat kid about where he got the bomb and
the fat kid would've been held in custody until he gave up Peter as the
guy who gave him the bomb.

Then DHS would've investigated Peter and would've been suspicious as to
why Peter at the last minute decided to re-join the Academic Decathlon
after quitting the team earlier and travel with the team to Washington,
D.C. only to skip out on the Decathlon competition and the skip out on
the team's trip to the Washington Monument on the same day that his
best friend blows up an elevator in the Washington Monument using a
bomb that Peter gave him. And DHS would've gotten a warrant to search
Aunt May's apartment.

Just more bad writing, as is usually the case in MCU movies.

In addition to the bad writing, SMH's shallow and uninspiring portrayal
of Spider-Man's motivations make SMH the worst movie adaptation of
Spider-Man ever. Without outright mentioning Uncle Ben's death, Peter
being Spider-Man is reduced to a simple show-off. There's nothing
driving him other than wanting to look cool and impress Tony Stark -
and that's a shallow reason which betrays his true comic origins.

Superman is shown by Jor-El how he can unite the human and Kryptonian
species and bring hope to Earth. Batman is driven by the death of his
parents and vows to do everything in his power to stop crime in Gotham.
Wonder Woman feels that it's her duty to end war and bring peace to
Mankind.

Those are noble reasons which are inspiring. Spider-Man is in 1 of the
4 most iconic comic-book superheroes along with Superman, Batman, and
Wonder Woman. But his motivation for being Spider-Man in Homecoming
isn't because he believes he has a "great responsibility" to use his
powers for good (as he learned from his failure to prevent Uncle Ben's
death when he could've) but simply because he's hoping to get a reply
from Happy Hogan.
<|_=00=_|>
Spideman: Homecoming was TERRIBLE and by far the worst spider-man film.
This movie was a HUGE set back for Spiderman but sadly we live in a
very tight lip controlled marvel press that have told us this is "great
movie" because it came from another soulless product cake factory from
marvel. This is the same Spiderman/Peter Parker from Civil War??? They
severely dumbed him down for his solo movie and turned him into whiny
clumsy idiot who screwed up constantly. Despite that Tom Holland is the
best on screen Peter Parker and Spiderman to date. He deserved a MUCH
better movie.

I like Michael Keaton but his performance felt phoned in only to find
that Keaton turned down this role twice before excepting it. Not his
fault, am I'm the only one who thought the Vulture was lame? He was so
hollow and them tying it up with the whole Damage Control thing felt
forced and rushed.

The high school stuff in this movie is awful. This movie was trying to
so hard to be a John Hughes movie and it failed miserably. Homecoming
was nothing like those movies. The teens in those movies were real,
they smoked, drinked, swore, and acted like real teens. The supporting
teen cast in Homecoming are nothing but terrible caricatures. Liz is a
stock love interest with all the personality of a dry brick. She's
useless and Laura Harrier and Tom Holland have zero chemistry. I never
bought that these two liked each other. All they're very few scenes
together are awkward. Flash was turned from a big jock bully bully into
a annoying little doucebag who's about as threatening as a newborn
kitten. Ned is stock fat friend comic relief who's not funny at all.
Michelle was some wannabe hipster Daria type girl who hate everything.
She served no purpose and the twist with character at the end was so
forced and stupid. Aunt May's transformation into an object of male
gaze/desire (and nothing more). No mention of Uncle Ben which is
ridiculous. I didn't need to see him die again, but replacing Tony
Stark as Uncle Ben's place as a father figure is absolutely ludicrous!

Dull washed out cinematography. This looked like a TV movie. Michael
Giacchino's uninspired score. Bad CGI on Spiderman, it looked WAY too
cartoon. The action scenes were forgettable and had zero stakes. The
Rubble scene had potential but it was poorly done, rushed, and ruined
by water reflection with Tony's voice over. It's sucks because Holland
acted his but off in that scene. All the Avengers/MCU references were
forced and shoehorned it was eye rolling. The worst was the F, Marry,
Kill game with Thor, Hulk, and Iron Man during the gym class. Really???
Speaking of gym class, those Captain America PSA segments were unfunny
pointless filler. Jon Watts was a poor pick to direct this movie. His
direction is bland and uncreative. He also doesn't know how to direct
action scenes. At least the Raimi movie had their own distinctive zany
kooky style. Homecoming looks like every other MCU movie. This movie
also had 6, yes SIX writers and it's shows.

The The forced diversity is so in your face. His best friends is
Filipino, love interest is biracial, his bully is Guatemalan, weird
girl is black, the Chinese and African kid on the decathlon team. No
story-line progression. The movie is Peter wants to impress Mr. Stark
to become an Avenger. That's.... it. The terrible childish comedy. "Hur
duh penis parker", "I was watching porn", "your aunt is so hot". This
is the comedy were supposed to laugh at? What was with the cringe built
by slaves comment in the Washington scene? That has no place in a
spider-man movie.

Bottom line! Spiderman: Homecoming is another over-hyped Summer
blockbuster that will be forgotten about after a month which is exactly
what happened. These MCU movies have no staying power. I already forgot
Guardians 2 came out 3 months ago. By the way that movie also sucked
too!
<|_=00=_|>
This is what I was afraid of when Disney took over marvel,it should
have been called Spider-Man,high school musical ,I know it,s comic-book
movie ,but we came a long way to show that comics are not just for kids
,but this sets us back ,none of the characters are like they are in the
comics ,Peter was a nerdy school kid but not like this ,flash was a big
school bully ,but this flash is a wimp ,my grandmother could take him
,and aunt May is a hottie in this movie ,not the old caring aunt of the
comics ,why ,why ,hope this is not a trend ,the suits sucks too.i know
they are trying to hit a new up to date audience ,but really.good
graphics and action but lame characters and story .guess I,m just
getting old .
<|_=00=_|>
Now we have Spider-Man Homecoming (2017)!!! OK, true believers; let's
begin with, NO ORIGIN STORY! Yes, finally, no more freaking origin
story! We ALL know Peter gets bit by a radioactive spider which gives
him his powers. DONE! Point scored to fans! Let's move on. Second,
Spider-Man Homecoming is still a Sony film but Marvel Studios has MUCH
of the creative control when they struck a deal. What this means for
fans is, we finally get to see a Spider-Man that we want! ... All in
All, this film hits a freaking home run! It's funny, action packed,
great writing, true to the character/source material, and leads into
some serious Avenger easter eggs! I LOVED THIS version of Spider- Man!!
I still love 2002's Spider-Man, but this is leading right into the
future of the MCU. EXCELSIOR !!!!! 

Read my FULL review at www.superheroesultimate.com
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, getting someone to review this movie who has no understanding
(from reading the review) of everything that went into making this
movie, and what this movie actually has to offer is sad and a detriment
to this movie by expressing opinions of something that the reviewer has
no proper knowledge of. 

Firstly you ask what went wrong for a reboot to be made. The Amazing
Spider-Man is what was wrong, the mediocre pieced together story with a
dark and depressing premise for a character that's meant to be light
hearted, goofy and young. Getting a 30 year old Actor of Andrew
Garfield to portray a young Peter Parker didn't gel at all.

Secondly Sony didn't want to continue with Andrew Garfield after the
2nd Spiderman movie and due to the licensing rights Sony made with
Marvel (pre Disney Ownership) they have to make a Spiderman movie
within so many years or they lose the rights which then go back to
Marvel, now owned by Disney. 

What transpired from this was Amy Pascal from Sony and Kevin Feige from
Marvel coming to agreement as quoted "Sony has the rights, that's not
changing. Have Sony pay for the movie, distribute the movie, market the
movie. Just let us make the movie and incorporate him into our
universe." and in doing so a reboot of Spiderman was born. I see no
issue with this due to Marvels success so far with their franchise.
Marvel gets the rights to all Spiderman Merchandise which they will
make quite a bit of money on, also using Spiderman in their movies in
which they keep the profits, and also Spiderman Homecoming 2 (probably
not the name) will lead the MCU into Phase 4, which shows the
commitment and investment from both sides to make this work. 

In doing this Spiderman has a great mesh with the Marvel universe, and
what comic book fans and Spiderman fans have always wanted since the
The Amazing Spider-Man reboot wasn't that well received. In this movie
there are so many Easter Eggs, from mention of Miles Morales (
Black/Latino Spiderman), brief showing of a possible Villain in
Scorpion. The showing of the Prowler, Shocker, The Tinkerer and
references to previous Marvel films. 

If you wanted to go into this movie expecting a full on action and
story-less movie and lots of spider-man flying through the city and
saving the world, then you wont get this here. What will you get though
is a great introduction to a character of Spider-man showing his true
self as portrayed by the comic books, but not told the same old way, a
fresh and dynamic approach to creating the character making us feel for
the character, and showing that Spider-man doesn't have to save the
world but still can make a difference and save the day even if the
stakes aren't that high. 

All in all I feel this movie has to be watched more than once to truly
see and understand how brilliant a director Jon Watts is, and how he
made a perfect comic book movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Jon Watts (Director of Clown and Cop Car) perfects the character and
charm of Spider-Man that we all love from the comics without doing
disservice to either fans of both the Raimi and Amazing Spider-Man
franchises with a fun superhero movie oozing with joy with its great
cast and characters, big and small, as well as an 'amazing' performance
from Tom Holland who brilliantly combines what Maguire and Garfield
brought to the character by truly demonstrating the differences and
similarities between the awkward nerd Peter Parker and the quippy crime
fighting Spider-Man. The film also gives many critics of Marvel's lack
of great villains what they want most, a relatable villain that is as,
if not more, interesting than the hero itself and not only is great
adversary physically but also psychologically and we see this with
Michael Keaton's excellent portrayal of the Vulture. What Spider-Man:
Homecoming does best, however, is its attention to detail and world
building put into the town of Queens, which feels more real and
believable than any other fictional world we have seen in the MCU,
making Spider-Man: Homecoming one of the best chapters of the Marvel
Cinematic Universe and another great example for future superhero
movies to learn from.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Spider-Man Homecoming on the opening night of the movie,and its
my favorite Spider Man movie since the 2nd Spider Man movie from the
original series.Tom Holland who plays as Spider Man in the Marvel
Cinematic Universe does a terrific job on being passed the mantle of
playing Spider Man.Michael Keaton also does a great job as playing as
the main bad guy of the movie Vulture.The new take on Spider Man of not
being dark and gritty its nice to see for a change.And I have a feeling
that Tom Holland will keep impressing me on his performance as Spider
Man in future Marvel movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Spider-Man, at his core, is the original kid superhero. His innocence
and naivete are as important as his intellect and wit. After two
previous incarnations and five movies, it's this version that finally
puts together a truly faithful portrayal of Peter Parker. Fittingly, it
took the MCU to do it. Tom Holland eschews the portrayals of his
predecessors, and infuses Parker with a genuinely optimistic view of
the world, and almost a boy crush on Tony Stark. Peter is awkward,
nervous and ambitious, to the point where he nearly wrecks himself in
order to show Stark how useful he can be. There is a lot of fun to be
had in this movie, be it through Spidey's quips, his amusing
interactions with people, or just times where he falls flat while
trying to be this great superhero. Peter's classmates get a fair bit
more work; this is the most complete Flash ever put to film, and Ned is
a perfect best friend for Peter. It's a fast movie as well, and Michael
Keaton helps keep that going as the counterbalance, his career
renaissance continuing in excellent fashion. Vulture is not the most
headline-grabbing Spidey villain, certainly, but neither was Obediah
Stane for Iron Man, nor Abomination for Hulk. They worked well because
of who portrayed them, and this is another case of that working in the
favor of the story. Keaton's motivations are simple, but not the same
as a typical villain, which makes him stand out, and potentially shows
that the MCU can create guys who are more than one-trick ponies. This
movie paces itself well, and just when you think it's safe, it pulls a
sharp right on you to bring the final act into focus. There's just
enough Tony Stark to bolster the bottom line, without having him take
over the film. He's the dad, such as it is, who'd have thought? Iron
Man is the interweaving thread in this universe, so it's appropriate he
be here, and the aforementioned dad role is amusing and in a way the
perfect method to bring Spidey along. Overall, a great time. The stakes
aren't as high as they're going to be or have been in MCU movies, but
that's okay. Spidey just needs to keep his feet on the ground.
