
It's pretty easy to review this one. If you liked the first one, you're
in for a treat. It holds up to the expectations and plays cleverly with
'being aware' of making basically the same movie again. The good thing
about this flick is, that it doesn't take itself too seriously while at
the same time delivering a good and fast paced story with quite some
surprises and good action. I basically laughed from the first minute up
to the (awesome!) end credits! If you like that type of comedy, this
one is for you, as it delivers on point and, without a doubt, is the
funniest flick this year so far! Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum have a
great chemistry and you can see and feel, how they enjoyed doing this
movie. Like the first one, 22 Jump Street does a great job observing
the different aspects of college life, students and teachers (or
professors for that matter). Everyone who's been to college can relate
to those stereotypes (e.g. the pseudo intellectuals, the sport jocks,
the art students etc.) and directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller
("The Lego Movie") do a great job spoofing those clichés while at same
time debunk the downsides and shallowness of those groups or college
life in general. 

Verdict: Go see it, if you liked the first one. I can't say if it's
better, but it certainly holds up. And I liked the first one pretty
much. So there you go...
<|_=00=_|>
My initial expectations were that '22 Jump Street' would be an
over-the- top and cheesy sequel created solely to make money... I was
wrong. '22 Jump Street' truly builds on the basis of the first film,
further expanding upon the bromantic chemistry between Tatum and Hill
creating an even more solid sequel full of good-natured humour and
relentless action that made its predecessor such a great film. With Ice
Cube having more of an impact this time round, the trio pursue their
leads to ensure the villains are brought to justice. The direction duo
have pulled off another amazing film to add to their filmography, a
truly impressive and hilariously funny film.
<|_=00=_|>
How on Earth is this film rated so highly? There's no true wit or
intelligence within the script, it's just stupid, lame jokes & a lot of
unnecessary swearing which the movie seems to think is funny. I'm not
saying swearing doesn't have a place in film, but overusing them to
this extent is extremely noticeable & came across as childish.

The story is about as boring and formulaic as they come. First act;
they enter college, second act; their relationship is tested, third
act; everything works out, happy ending. It's like they didn't even try
to be different or original.

Every single character is a one-dimensional stereotype. They never
exhibit traits that show any form of depth; they were all so formulaic
it felt like all their actions were generated from a computer.

Overall, absolute piece of garbage. If you're American and enjoy
flat-out idiotic humor devoid of any wit or intelligence, I recommend
it, but otherwise stay away.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen such a bad movie like this one. The script is a huge
load of illogical and absurd events which in the end collapse together
into am anti-climax ending. And the acting even manages to out-worsen
the completely trashy plot. Every actors and actresses in this film
seem to worry that the audiences might not be able to hear them clearly
so they just yelled at a maximum volume and it was not pleasant at all!
The the slap-tick humor could have been able to save this film from
becoming a total disaster but frankly it didn't work at all.

Trust me, there's literally nothing good about this cheap piece of
B-rated half-ass movie. Save your money and never give it a go!
<|_=00=_|>
All these reviews are bashing the crap out of this movie. 'It's aimless
drivel and only for mindless idiots'. Well....Yeah. When I watch a
comedy like this that's what I hope for. Sometime you just want to turn
off your brain for an hour and a half and watch two familiar "actors"
play out ridiculous but easy enough to grasp scenarios while they
foolishly react. A post-viewing critique is pointless because the
directors have no intention of it being able to hold up on creative or
any kind of artistic merit. If you want to think about what you're
watching, or enjoy good story development, or simply see some great
acting then there are plenty of movies like Rashomon, Eraserhead, The
Man from Earth, Memories of Murder, Hitchcock films, Miyszaki films, or
something like Life Is Beautiful or It's A Wonderful Life(I forget
which is which, both great). And there's nothing wrong with a good
documentary know and then either. But something good and properly
stupid can be just the right thing when you need to take a respite. Not
all comedies are going to be a quipping Woody Allen flicks. It's really
about getting a good balance in your movies types and picking the right
one for your current mood. In other words this movie is just what it
intends to be and just what wanted it to be. Pure and easy
entertainment.

...Now I'm going to get my Audrey Hepburn on and watch My Fair Lady.
<|_=00=_|>
Loaded with potential, 22 JUMP STREET is the sequel to the comedic
buddy teamup (based on the 1980's Johnny Depp TV show) where
Christopher Tatum and Jonah Hill posed as high schoolers to bust a drug
dealer Not only did it score at the box office, 21 JUMP STREET was
actually really funny and involving, and the duo made a fantastic polar
opposite team.

The first of many inside-jokes is when Ice Cube's grouchy Captain of
the 22 Jump Street's new abandoned church location comments on how no
one thought the first "reboot" (referring to the church within the
movie, but not really) would actually work like it did... And now
they're piling more money into this new one (again quasi-referring to
the church) Something sequels actually have to do to win over
audiences, a second time.

The intentionally mirrored storyline of Hill's Schmidt and Tatum's
Jenko in college lacks the suspenseful undercover element of keeping
their identities secret: Not only do they constantly shrug off the
mission at hand finding the drug dealer that sold to a girl who
fatally overdosed but the students they're involved with are equally
pointless and unmotivated.

Jenko bonds with a fellow football jock while Schmidt scores (much too
easily) with a girl way out of his league. The twist on who that girl's
related to provides some laughter but the joke gets old after a while.
As do the bromantic metrosexual comparisons about the bickering
cop-partners being in and out of a close relationship... You're
straight but seem otherwise: We get it already! 

The best scenes take place after the weary college story peters out
Not like it had any real juice in the first place Hell, even their
current psychedelic overdose is lame and contrived. So when the boys
infiltrate Spring Break/Mexico there's a neat burst of overboard
sequel-action to make us forget two things: 22 isn't as good as the
first venture, and the first 3/4ths of this movie isn't very good at
all.
<|_=00=_|>
11 June 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - 22 Jump
Street. This film was a hoot!!! I only watched 21 Jump Street at the
weekend in preparation for the sequel and although I enjoyed it I have
to say the sequel was much better. Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum are a
great double act and the film provides just the right amount of
slapstick humour combined with witty banter and the serious side of
undercover police work. Imagine if you will two undercover cops, not
the brightest pair, sent back to college to infiltrate the latest drug
ring. Whatever you are imagining.....it's in this sequel. Hill and
Tatum are tight.....they have each other's backs and are best buds but
going back to college shows each of them a new direction and their
friendship is severely tested in this world of frat parties, pledging
and that oh so American Institution.......Spring Break. A giggle from
start to finish and Channing Tatum's not bad to look at either. Stay
for the credits!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Quickie Review:

After a successful undercover drug bust operation in high school,
Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing Tatum) get their next big
assignment. Now in the sequel 22 Jump Street, as Ice Cube so eloquently
put it, these "two sons of b***hes are going to college." As the cop
duo take on yet another drug ring, they go through multitude of
ridiculous yet hilarious situations. In doing so, there are some
formulaic traps that the movie does fall into. Despite that, it is just
an incredible ride with non-stop laughter and great comedic chemistry
between the lead actors. This is a must-see for fans of 21 Jump Street
and people who generally like to laugh.

Full Review:

The original movie, 21 Jump Street, was a surprise hit back in 2012. It
was a movie filled with many belly aching moments of laughter. For that
reason, of all the comedies of 2014 this sequel may be the most
anticipated, at least it was for me. So the question is: does it
deliver on the high expectations? And the answer is: oh hell yes it
does.

There is one absolute in this franchise that no one will dispute, the
chemistry between Jonah Hill and Channing Tatum is incredible. As soon
as their on screen you immediately start smiling, just because you feel
the need to prepare yourself for something amusing. Then when they do
go about their shenanigans, numerous twists and turns occur that are
fun to watch unfold, to hilarious effect. The jokes are fast paced and
relentless, without it being tiresome. More importantly the comedy is
actually clever, even during some of the scenarios the are more stupid
due to some absurdity. The combination of the comedic duo and the
intelligent humor work flawlessly, making the flick all the more
entertaining. As great as the two leads are with their comedic timing,
I need to especially mention Ice Cube. I won't spoil anything of
course, but there are points in this movie where Ice Cube actually
steals the scenes he is in. I'd pay the full movie ticket price just to
see that dynamic between Ice Cube and the two leads. It is that good.

I do recognize there are some faults with 22 Jump Street. It did stick
with the philosophy of "if it ain't broke, don't fix it." In that
sense, the general story plot is pretty much the same as the original
movie. 22 Jump Street is self-aware of what it is, and pokes fun of
itself for being a sequel that follows the formula. However, addressing
this fault in that comedic way will not be enough for everyone to
forgive it. Still, I think this is something that you can easily look
past because of how enjoyable the movie is.

The one purpose of a comedy is to make you laugh, and 22 Jump Street
fulfills that requirement consistently throughout the movie. By
throughout the movie, I mean even during the credits. Your cheeks will
have a good exercise, because mine were in pain with all the laughing.
It is well worth your time and money, so don't miss out on this one. If
they keep this up I will be there even at 1022 Jump Street.
<|_=00=_|>
Hilarious, often outrageous, but above all thoroughly entertaining, 22
Jump Street manages to recapture all the humor and audacity its
successful predecessor had to offer, while also offering some new
thrills and unpredictability along the way. The film strikes a unique
and clever balance between exploring new comedic ideas and continuing
the themes from the first installment, as it maintains its core story
but also offers enough twists to create new excitement. Although the
storyline is very much similar to the first film, it does seem fresh
and original at the same time, which creates a sequel that can be
differentiated from others, as the plot is not merely redesigned in an
awkward and uninteresting way. But perhaps the film's dominant feature
continues to be the strong chemistry between the two leading men, who
again combine their talents to create the ultimate comedy team. Overall
this comedy sequel stands out due to its ability to embrace the success
of the its predecessor, as 22 Jump Street uses the power of repetition
to recreate the unique comedic atmosphere, which allows the film to
establish a very distinct comedy series.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was about to give up on modern comedies, here comes a sequel
that outdoes the original ten times or more. Tatum is excellent as the
slowest of the pair, proving he's a very good comedian, both physically
and delivering some of the funniest lines in the movie, and his
partner, Hill, redeems himself from the depths of "Wolf" with a turn
that shows how talented he can be. His multidimensional geek fully
forms a perfect whole with the physical and sweet jock turn by Tatum.

Before we can catch our breaths, the leads are back in school, this
time in college trying to stop the viral distribution of a new drug. We
all know how it will turn out, but the set up is to put these two in an
environment where they will not fit because of the obvious. Hill, well
spins his character in a different dimension and takes on a romantic
and bromantic persona. His romance and break up scenes rank way up
there with the zaniness of "Some Like it Hot", and we are not prepared
even in the more open times for some of the exchanges between the two
actors when every other lines has a double meaning. This is classic
comedy. In particular, the scene in the psychologist office had the
audience laugh out loud because absolutely no one on screen was tuned
to the same channel, and it kept getting funnier and funnier. For a
moment, I thought I was watching "Tootsie" and some of its best bits
when the main character was having a nightmarish experience. This time,
Hill and Tatum do an amazing job by taking their bromance into new
levels.

Tatum is definitely having the time of his life, as he finds his soul
mate in school and apparently his destiny in life. Here he is living
his dream, succeeding at every possible endeavor, being popular,
sharing every moment with his newly found friend. This is serious
competition for his undercover buddy, and the writers take flight with
it when we see the reactions in Hill's face and their further
exchanges.

The silly action scenes and the vulgarity that peppers and ruins much
of what they call comedy nowadays take a second seat to the development
of characters here. We're not sitting listening to boring expositions
or innumerable descriptions of bathroom humor. Yes, those elements are
carefully placed, and what comes out is the silliness, the naivete and
stupidity of how the characters deal with their relationships with each
other. What might have been vulgar in another film, here ranks with
some of the best comedy in the movies. There are many tributes and
references to those films throughout "22". Be ready to acknowledge the
talents of Allen, Benny H., and a few others as winks are given to the
audience. This might not be highbrow comedy, but it is beautifully
delivered. Much of the credit once again goes to the incredible work by
Tatum and the fine support Hill gives him. You will be laughing out
loud over and over.

There is one scene that has the explosion of a parent in a visitation
day, and Ice Cub's outburst is one of the funniest ever on film. His
rantings and reactions to a sudden realization about something one of
his undercover agents has done was a moment to treasure because of his
excellent timing and the rest of the cast's facial reactions. Whoever
wrote the screenplay did his homework and made sure that the skeleton
didn't go in without every other element to make a fantastic comedy. So
many times we have been given trash, full of unnecessary and stupid
jokes that are more shocking than funny. The recent "Neighbors" being a
prime example of everything that can go wrong with miscasting, misfired
lines, and lazy direction.

To close, there is beauty in all kinds of art. We have incredible
harmonies in rock and heavy metal anthems. Class and perfection doesn't
only occur in historical and pretentious comedies. Those are bound to
be disappointments because they appeal to people who think only a
particular type of productions should be considered fine entertainment.
Some of the classics surprised us because we didn't expect much at
first, but we felt pleased, entertained, and we were moved with the
depth of what lied behind the the facade. "22" is a whole piece to be
savored and enjoyed, and to laugh out loud, too.

HAVE FUN!!!!
