
Useless waste of my time and money. There were maybe three spots that
were funny. Most of it was old regurgitated jokes. Black people
complain about 'token blacks' and then do EXACTLY the same thing with a
white guy. Couple of places I was bored to the point of yawning.

Kevin Hart failed so badly that I was surprised when I heard this made
a lot of money in the first weekend.

The first one was hilarious and I laughed all the way through. I barely
was able to stay in the theater for this one.

They should have spent more money on the script and more time.

This movie was so bad that I have run outta things to say about it but
I have to fill space because for reasons unknown the webmaster thinks a
review has to be at least a certain length.
<|_=00=_|>
I never review movies, but this one was so bad that I'm writing this as
soon as I got home. I didn't expect much, but I knew that there were
some well known actors in this movie. I found that Kevin Hart's
character was so obnoxious and that the only good part of the movie was
the 30 seconds piece with Drake.

I NOT recommend this to anyone--even if they're a Kevin Hart fan. If
you like comedies like 22 jump street or the neighbors, you would be
wasting your time by going to see this movie as it does NOT compare
what so ever.

I am so upset with what I saw and I regret seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Within the first few minutes I knew this movie was going to suck, I
just didn't think it would suck this bad. I had a sick feeling in my
stomach through out the entire movie. I actually felt embarrassed for
the actors. This movie was NOT funny at all. The jokes were so lame,
the movie was flat, there was NO chemistry, everything was forced. I
was just annoyed, like other reviewers have said Kevin Hart has way too
much screen time. His jokes were corny, uninteresting. Really, why. So
predictable. I wanted to fast forward so many times. The pacing of the
movie was terrible. I have never rolled my eyes so much. Really sad
This was was terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not enjoy this movie. I felt it was too much coonery and poor
dialogue. Kevin Hart in my opinion is not funny. He tries way to hard
to be funny. I have read both of Steve Harvey's books and felt the
movie should have been more of a comedic drama in the vein of Waiting
to Exhale. Here was a chance to make a slick, sexy, glossy movie using
the guidance Mr. Harvey provides in his books. Instead it was turned
into a slap stick vulgar train wreck. Dennis Haysbert, Jennifer Lewis,
Tarji Henson, Jim Piddock and Michael Ealy are good actors whose
talents were wasted in this movie. Even Gary Owen who is funny could
have been utilized better. A lot of the scenes were contrived and
predictable. I knew at the end that Zeke would walk across the water to
get to Maya. Regina Hall has the makings of a good actress but she has
yet to get the right material to showcase her craft. They just threw
celebrities in the movie probably to attract more viewers. For example,
Drake, Floyd Merriweather served no purpose in the movie and Drake's
lines were terrible. I'm surprised that Mr. Harvey would sign off on a
movie where the "N" word is used. This movie is no different than the
chittlin circuit plays produced by Mr. Perry. Just a greasy bag of
chicken.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie, not expecting a masterpiece, but at least
something decent enough to get my mind off things in life.

But NOPE!!!

This was so terrible, I had to scramble back to the things I was trying
to escape in the first place, just to escape from this.

"Think Like A Man", the first movie, was good. I laughed, and generally
enjoyed it. "Think Like A Man Too", the second movie, was a disaster. I
giggled/chuckled thrice. THRICE. The remaining parts of the movie felt
forced, mostly due to the extremely clichéd nature of the plot. 

Speaking of the plot, it was predictable. Wedding-gone-wrong-then-at-
the-last-minute-everything-is-saved, except this time, that applied to
every single couple in the movie sans one. 

I left the cinema at the end feeling robbed of my money and time. It's
sad to think I nearly dragged a friend into the fire with me. I made
sure to let him know how lucky he was. 

Oh yea, I ticked the "Contains Spoiler" check-box because my one-line
analysis of the plot above, is generally the entire movie. Hardy har
har.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie of course wasn't like the first. I mean how many movies are
better than the first one? Other than The Godfather II? Hardly any. Yet
it had its hilarious moments and it's cute moments. 

Kevin Hart was still funny, although I feel that little by little he is
losing his touch. When he first came out, he had everybody laughing so
hard their stomachs hurt, but now it's alright. Jenifer Lewis and
Taraji P. Henson were the only people who I felt were the best actors.
Oh and we can't forget Dennis Haysbert. These characters were the ones
who I would say, did the most acting. 

The plot was a little different than the last. Only thing was that
there was a wedding and they had to try to celebrate with each other
before it was wedding time. I still liked the movie either way, I
walked out with a smile on my face and OK with having spent the money
to see it. 

I would recommend watching it. If you're one of those The Fault in Our
Stars girls or.. Guys? I would recommend watching this movie afterwards
so that you could have a good laugh and replace the sad tears with
happy ones. 
<|_=00=_|>
And my apologies to two year olds everywhere for insinuating that they
in any way act like the characters in this movie. Most two year olds
are far more thoughtful and mature. This is a movie that everyone
involved with should be embarrassed.

It is not funny at all. There is no dialog, just jokes without
punchlines. There is no plot, just random scenes with no direction or
sense. Infidelity seems to be the goal of this Las Vegas Bachelor
Party. And Kevin Hart's emotion ranges from talking very loud to
shouting (neither of which is enjoyable).

What was filmed in Vegas should have stayed in Vegas.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been two years since we last saw the characters of 'Think Like A
Man', which was based off of Steve Harvey's book 'Act Like A Lady,
Think Like A Man'. The first film followed a group of guys and girls
falling in love with one another with all of the ups and downs of a
relationship. It was funny, charming, and worth the time. Director Tim
Story is back in the director's chair again for this second outing.
Statistically and historically, if a film on a modest budget does well,
more than likely there will be a sequel.

'Think Like A Man' was made for under $12 million and ended up grossing
almost $100 million at the box office. It seemed like it was the right
decision to go ahead with the sequel, but in order to have a sequel,
you need to have a thought out story, which unfortunately for this
sequel, didn't have. It seemed like 'Think Like A Man Too' was just
thrown together over a drunken night and a reason for everyone to get
together in Las Vegas to have a fun few weeks. I was so disappointed in
this sequel, because I enjoyed the first one so much, but this this
sequel was more about Kevin Hart doing his slap-stick routine for
90-minutes than showing an entertaining story.

The entire gang is back in again, this time all arriving in Las Vegas
for the wedding of Michael (Terrence Jenkins) and Candace (Regina
Hall). But the night before the wedding, the guys and girls split off
and go all out for their respective bachelor/bachelorette parties,
which plays out more like a 'Hangover' film throughout, complete with
fights, strip clubs, and jail. You'd think that Jenkins would have a
big role here, since this is his wedding in the film, but he receives
the least amount of screen time, as I said above, its the Kevin Hart
show with him dancing in his underwear, yelling at everyone, and poking
fun at his height for the millionth time.

Story also decided to put an actual music video in the middle of the
film, where the girls sing 'Poison' by Bell Biv Devoe at their
bachelorette party, complete with the music video credits and logo in
the bottom left hand corner of the screen. There was just no need other
than to waste time. But that's what the entire film seemed like, a big
waste of time. Sure it was fun to see everyone on screen playing off
one another and enjoying themselves, and everyone turns in fun and
great performances, but when Story tries to create dramatic tension, it
goes nowhere and rushes by to fast as to get to the next scene with
Hart making a fool of himself.

And of course, just like the first film, we had to check in with every
couple for a nice pretty pink bow to wrap up everything nicely. It was
all too forced, which made it unfunny. I really wanted to like this
sequel, but 'Think Like A Man Too' fell off the cliff and lost the big
bet. And yes, Adam Brody is in this film, but he is only in it for
maybe less than two minutes and has one or two lines of dialogue. Why
give him top billing?
<|_=00=_|>
The film falls into the trap of all bachelor party films. Total
confusion, anger and fights break out and always seem to mar the main
event from occurring. This film unfortunately fits the pattern.

We have an assortment of couples coming to Las Vegas for the wedding.

We even have a best man who got his position by mistake and tries to go
all out to make this a grand affair. Instead, he provides more
confusion and chaos than necessary.

We have the mother of the groom-to-be who shows what the definition of
a mother-in-law may really be with her take charge attitude.

We have fights, all going to jail and eventual redemption. It's just
the silliness in getting to the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course they are not going to change the name to that, because it
would give away the entire plot of this movie. Shallow, childish,
unfunny, scattered, maladjusted, irresponsible, insensitive, and a
complete waste of time and money. And why is there so much shouting in
this movie. I can't think of a more annoying way to spend time in a
theater. It is said that if you give a room full of monkeys typewriters
and an infinite amount of time, they will eventually recreate
Shakespeare. This movie is simply what they would come up with the
first hour. On the bright side, none of the people involved in making
this train wreck need worry about where to put their Oscars (but start
thinking about where to put the Razzie).
