
This RomCom lacks both humor or romance. One may say it's a dark
comedy, but mostly it's just sad. Bits of progressive manifesto are
sprinkled throughout the movie with an uneven hand that screams same
old formula with a new 21st century face. The main issue with the film
is that there are too many story lines, most of which are never worked
to denouement. We are left wondering, in many cases, why parts are even
added. Then, there are parts which makes you question, why was that
even necessary? Tiresome retread characters are abound - see the
borderline case of dementia with constant sage lines. Please, I have
grandparents with dementia, either don't make light of the issue or
don't try to line it with clear one liner tear-jerker intended lines.
Thanks but no thanks, I can't recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this with my husband and daughter in law and we all just howled.
It reminds me of Nora Ephron film with all the family and personal
drama going on. There is a bit of profanity and sexuality so I wouldn't
take your younger kids but, for teens it's a go. 

It has a great ensemble cast, each with his or her own personal drama
going on. Diane Keaton and John Goodman (who has lost a ton of weight
and looks great) make a very believable couple whose kids and grandkids
are all slightly off kilter. Steve Martin, who narrates the film
through the eyes of the family dog, is a delight. And, the love story
between Angie and Sergeant is one of the highlights of the film. "I
never believed in love at first sight until now." 

As Leo Tolstoy said, "All happy families are alike; each unhappy family
is unhappy in its own way." But, you might just see an element of your
own family in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to start off by saying that I am fairly easy to please when it
comes to movies. The last movie I saw was Burnt, which received
generally negative reviews, but I loved it. There are several other
movies recently that have received poor reviews that I enjoyed, so it
is easy for me to enjoy movies. But wow, this movie was terrible. I
truly do not believe how such an ensemble of wonderful actors and
actresses could agree to star in this. 

A few nit picky things- This movie was beyond cliché. Don't get me
wrong, I enjoy cliché movies. I actually like some movies that have
generic parts. But the formula for this movie made me sick. It was so
cheesy and so cliché that I really, truly at one point began to think
this was a parody or satire created film that makes fun of generic and
cliché movies, but it wasn't! There was no parody aspect to it. It was
just terrible.

Now let's talk about the characters. I want to start with Olivia
Wilde's character Eleanor. Basically, when she enters the narrator says
she has been hurt by love and closes herself off to love. Which means
we all know where this is going. Which, again, I like cliché, but this
was over the top. What happens is she meets an army man played very
well by Jake Lacy. Their "love story" was so unbelievable because she,
as the narrator says, was so hurt by love, yet when she meets Joe
(played by Jake Lacy) she for some reason pursues him and instantly
trust him. It was like as soon as the narrator said "She could never
love again," she instantly falls in love. And what's more, she was a
terrible character. She was completely disrespectful to Joe and for
some reason he was into her. She would insult his political views and
character and act high and mighty when she was the one sleeping with a
married man and the one hating her family. Next was Amanda Seyfried and
Alan Arkin's story. It was totally weird. It felt like she was into a
man 60 years older than her and it was weird. He gets angry instantly
at her as she says she is moving because of "great waitress
opportunity." I just didn't get it. She was totally thrown in there for
no reason. Oh, wait. There was a reason. Literally the only reason she
was in this move was to be the eye candy for ed Helm's character Hank.
That is it. And of course Hank is divorced because no family in stupid
movie like this can stay together apparently. The only saving grace in
this movie... the reason I gave it a 2 instead of a 1, was John Goodman
and Diane Keaton's character Sam and Charlotte. They were on the verge
of divorce after 40 years of marriage and i felt their relationship
real. They were the only two people in the movie I hoped things would
work out. And things do work out for the two, it was a completely
stupid, cheesy, and cliché way it worked out, but I am glad it worked
out nevertheless. I literally could not care for any character in this
movie. It was hard to look past the terrible plot to even see such
great actors dive into such terrible plots and scripts And my last,
most annoying thing to say about this movie, is it is completely
narrated through the dog. Yup, you heard me right. It was narrated by
the dog of the family. Such a lazy and terrible way to make the plot
continue. I wanted to like this movie. I really did. I love many of the
actors and actresses in it. But They could not save this movie from
such a terrible plot and passing and such terrible dialogue. Save your
money.
<|_=00=_|>
Better late than never I always say! Hi I'm Robbie K and this review is
on a comedy designed to be a holiday treat for the bunch. The name of
the movie is Love the Coopers, which from the trailers looked to be
packed with stars who were ready to make you bust a gut with lots of
laughs. Of coursewe do know that multiple big names in one movie often
leads to disaster in terms of quality and plot (Valentine's Day and New
Years Eve anyone?). Anyway, let's get started on the review. 

For a comedy, Love the Coopers has a bit more wit involved in terms of
making you laugh. By wit I don't mean the dry comedy that you have to
be in the loop to understand, but more so in how well it is integrated
into the story. The dialogue happens naturally, flowing into the normal
routine instead of shoving a comedic ploy into our faces. In addition
the variety of the jokes helped keep the movie fresh and fun, ranging
from sexual innuendos and first time kisses to insults and the art of
lying. Even better was how all of these jokes fit into place and worked
with the individual's story to further maximize the timing. And yet I
think all of it would have failed had it not been for the actor's
delivery. Whether it was John Goodman's sarcasm, Olivia Wilde's angst
and attitude, or June Squibb playing the clueless aunt it all was
maximized by how well they sold the lines. Or in some cases it might
have just been a facial expression that got me laughing, primarily from
Rags the dog who continues to take the drama and roll with it in some
way.

So strong comedy must mean good story right? Wrong! Love the Coopers'
plot was very lacking in entertainment for this reviewer. As I feared,
the tale was very fragmented with multiple mini-plot lines slowly
converging until they all meet in the end. This tactic has worked in
the past, but like most modern comedies, they lack balance. Some of
these plot lines are strong, taking constant screen time and
establishing the backbone. Others however would have their 15 minutes
of fame and then not be seen for some time, often hastily concluded
with the reunion of plot lines. Fortunately it's all wrapped in a nice
Christmas package, however untraditional it is. This isn't the run of
the mill, feel good movie that you see on Hallmark though, but instead
one that uses the Holiday as a means for character evaluation. Love the
Coopers is actually a downer, especially at the beginning where all the
problems come to light. Thus with the poor plot and depressing tone, I
felt this movie dragged at a lot of the parts, making the 107 minutes
feel more like 180 minutes. I'll admit I nearly nodded off a few times
as well, so that might be something to take to mind. No
surpriseeverything comes full circle in the end and you'll get some
grand lessons if you keep your mind open, but it certainly isn't the
most moving piece I've seen. 

As I mentioned earlier, the actors really are the strongest part of
this movie. John Goodman was my particular favorite as the big man
continues to impress me with his wide spectrum of characters. He's
funny, serious, and keeps the stories tethered together and plays
exactly like the stereotypical head of the household. Diane Keaton
unfortunately was not in my favor this time not so much for her acting,
but that her character was so annoying. She's a good counter to
Goodman's calmness and a great source of drama, but it was a little too
much for me. Olivia Wilde steps back in the light with a decent role
that combines sexuality with mischief and uses her gorgeous looks to
complete the character. Ed Helms is a little more down to Earth in this
film, trading in overacted arrogance and stupidity for a more
believable character. It was nice getting to see a more serious side of
things, and helps add a bit of awkwardness to an otherwise cut and dry
family. Alan Arkin is great as always, though underutilized in my
opinion and would have been great to have a few more quips and lessons
to add to the mix. Heck even the kids impressed me with how fitting
their characters were taking components of a Christmas Story, Christmas
Vacation, and a Hallmark kid and wrapping it into one. And Steve Martin
as the narrator added a nice tree topper, fitting right in line with
the various narrators of classic Christmas stories. 

Love the Coopers is an okay film, but certainly isn't your run of the
mill Christmas tale. Sure the comedy was a nice variation, and the
acting certainly made the characters alive and relevant. Unfortunately
this movie was just too monotonous, long-winded and depressing to make
this movie fully entertaining. I'm sure you can guess from my review
that this movie really isn't worth the trip to the theater, not only
due to lack of entertainment but also a lack of special effects.
Therefore this reviewer recommends skipping this movie at the time and
finding an alternative to this movie. 

My scores for this film are:

Comedy: 6.5 Movie Overall: 6.0
<|_=00=_|>
Love the Coopers? I didn't. Neither will you.

The first holiday film of the year arrives with a monumental thud,
despite an impressively decorated, and star-studded cast. The dramedy
revolves around the matriarch of the Cooper clan (Diane Keaton), who
tires to bring her misshapen family together for a final Christmas
dinner, before her and her husband of forty years (John Goodman)
divorce. Like Love Actually, we jump from storyline to storyline, as we
chart the progress of each family member's trek homeward.

Unfortunately, comparing Love the Coopers to any film with the words
"love," or "actually" in the title would be an insult to those movies
(Love the Coopers being the exception that establishes the rule).
Actual jokes with a real set-up and punchline are few and far between,
and rarely land anyway. Coopers largely relies on out of place
vulgarity in place of comedy, or utilizes site gags that it recycles
until there is a permanent dent in the ground where the dead horse used
to be.

As far as the movie's attempt at subversive drama, most of the
characters are too poorly developed, or unrealistically written to be
genuinely compelling. The script occasionally comes close to insight
into some of these characters, but sheepishly walks away from the
doorbell, instead of knocking down that door. The direction ranges from
uninspired to downright disruptive of the film's flow, and the
insistence on narrating every plot point and character trait before we
actually get to see it, makes watching the film a formality.

There are, maybe, one or two laughs to be had, and perhaps two subplots
are somewhat compelling. Bucky (Alan Arkin) and Ruby (Amanda Seyfried)
share a couple of scenes in a diner that are at least watchable, and
Arkin turns in fairly solid performance. The most fleshed out story
belongs to the romance between Eleanor (Olivia Wilde) and Joe (Jake
Lacy). There's a real chemistry between the two of them, and there
seems to be genuine depth to their characters.There might be a good
movie based on their few scenes, if Eleanor weren't such an
insufferable jerk.

The real problem with Coopers is that it doesn't seem to have any fun,
or good intention. I wouldn't mind the movie if it were just formulaic,
and I can tolerate a bad movie. The reason that the film gave me a
headache is because it seems to exist solely to grab the money out of
your wallet. The film industry is undoubtedly a business, but at least
disguise yourself; have some respect for your audience. By the film's
end, you know it was sponsored by Southwest Airlines and McDonalds, and
you know it went out of it's way to shamelessly appeal to every
demographic (Anthony Mackie plays the generic black/gay guy). It's
borderline offensive.

Please, for the sake of your health, and for the future of the cinema,
stay away from Love the Coopers.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is one of those movies that you either love or hate. I
loved it, my husband hated it. It definitely is a bit of a downer which
is why I gave it a 7/10. It's not gonna be a movie that puts you in a
holly jolly mood (at least not until the last 15 minutes). So I
understand why many people disliked it. But with that said, I found the
brutal honesty very charming. It felt real and still managed to have
quite a few laughs in the midst of the drama. Very reminiscent of The
Family Stone. I think if they hadn't marketed it as a comedy, so that
people knew what to expect going in, it would have a better score right
now. Something else that I noticed and loved was the way it was filmed.
It was very beautifully shot, and there were lots of gorgeous close ups
that, to me, made the scenes even better. And I really enjoyed how a
few shots were filmed from the perspective of the children as they were
running through crowds or stores etc. Very unique and added a little
extra something (though maybe I only noticed because I'm a
photographer). Probably not something kids will enjoy (there were more
than a few in our theater and they didn't seem very interested).
<|_=00=_|>
A festive movie about family, about values, about love and everything
else. With a little twist at the end if you want to call it that. Other
than that it is pretty much by the numbers (predictable that is). But
it's a fun movie to watch and it's lovely to see another story about
family interactions.

If you like that kind of stuff that is. But it's light (drama included
of course) and it's fun overall. The acting talent at hand is amazing
and it's clear they're having a blast. I guess watching it around
Christmas time makes the most sense, but you could also watch it
anytime else and still have that good feeling
<|_=00=_|>
I actually didn't mind this movie. I watched it with my girlfriend as
neither as of us were motivated enough to jump on the Star Wars
bandwagon but fancied watching a movie anyway. We didn't go in with
high expectations and so weren't disappointed but... 

I cannot accept this aspect of the movie. It's completely ridiculous!
Marisa Tomei must be, what, at least 20 years younger than Diane
Keaton, on top of that she looks about 30 years younger than her. Tomei
is amazing looking and would've been a much more believable choice as
Olivia Wilde's older sister in my view. Casting like this just takes
you out of the story and makes it that much more difficult to invest in
the dynamics of the characters. Why not just cast an older actress? 

Other issues: Not enough exposition in relation to the dead sister. Too
much reading between the lines on that one. Clearly it's going to be a
major part of what's haunting the family but it feels brushed under the
carpet. I'm starting to feel really sorry for Alan Arkin now too. His
role in these indie films seems to be to have some sort of heart-
attack or stroke. It's almost as if seeing his name in the titles gives
you one the major plot points of the film. Couldn't the creators have
been a little more imaginative? I also thought there was an issue with
him being Diane Keaton's dad, what is he supposed to be, like 90?
Keaton looks great, make no mistake, but she also looks her age, as
does John Goodman by the way. It's unlikely that either of their
parents would be too far away from a nursing home, unless they were
freaks of nature (Goodman's aunt at least is more believable in this
respect). 

I did like the acting in the film though and the dynamics between the
characters. Tomei's journey in the cop car was impossibly long, was she
being deported to a different state? But I enjoyed her interaction with
the policeman. Keaton and Goodman are a joy to watch, at any age, as is
Alan Arkin, and Wilde and her army man sure did have chemistry. I felt
having the doctor be her lover towards the end was a little contrived,
however, did we really did that extra twist in the "will they won't
they" saga? 

So a movie which had a nice, albeit far from original message, which
was well acted, yet with casting issues, which was also a little
contrived and ultimately took the road of sentiment over pursuing any
profound insight into human beings. Perhaps worth watching for some of
the very organic and natural-feeling interactions which do occur within
the film, but not to be entered with high expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Me and my friend decided to watch this movie early last night in the
theater. I would say that I was pleasantly surprised by the great
ensemble cast in this movie. Each main character had his/her own little
story; stories that will either touch your heart, make you smile or
laugh. Even though I feel like Diane Keaton plays the same character in
most of her films :P I think she did really good in this one. The other
two that really stood out for me in the movie were Marisa Tomei and
Olivia Wilde but each character had their moments in the movie so I
doesn't seem like someone got left out in the overall story. It's not a
perfect Christmas movie but this is definitely worth watching in the
theater this Holiday season. I've seen a lot of Christmas movies and
this is not the cheesy type that sometimes you see on channels like
Lifetime. It's something that I could watch again so also I'd get a
copy of the DVD when it comes out and add it on my list of great
Christmas movies. I highly recommend the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
*** This review may contain spoilers ***

That was the first movie that put me to sleep. For the first time in my
life I wanted to leave the cinema. I went to see a Christmas comedy and
saw Christmas tragedy. Such a stupid plot!!! Why all these people
should be so sad and depressed?! I get the main idea of all miserable
members of this family getting united at the end. BUT i can't
understand why is necessary to be such slow and dramatic storyline. The
main characters with their 35 years old marrage are going to devorse
because they didn't go to Africa. They had so much fights all the time
because of that and when the woman said "Ok, let's go to Africa", he
said "No, let's stay" Really?!?! The sister Emma... she was at the back
seat of the police car for 70 minutes and was having such pathetic
conversation with the officer; the movie is 105 minutes! The
daughter... why she and the soldier guy were walking around the airport
for 50 minuts of the movie, talking so much nonsense? She is so much
hurt and couldn't love again, but she has a ralationship with married
man and she fall in love with the solider boy in 5 minutes... There is
a son that couldn't buy a presents for his kids because he has no money
but he is hiding that fact, there are two terrible teenagers making out
in every corner, there is this waitress that tried to kill herself
because he mother is an alcoholic... This movie killed my Christmas
spirit :( The trailer is far away from the real story. People, please
don't watch it, it will depress you... P.S. The only nice thing in this
movie is the cute dog
