
Back in 2009, Disney purchased Marvel Comics for four billion dollars.
Shocking and surprising the world, many fans of both sides were curious
whether Disney would make an animation film based on a group of
characters from the comics. Three years later, Director Don Hall
approached John Lasseter on making a film with Marvel Characters and
found the Big Hero 6, a comic book series that even the most well known
of comics didn't know who they were. In fact they were so obscure that
Marvel themselves even forgot that they had the characters.

Marvel gave Disney the liberty to change the characters so that they
could be seen as a Disney Animation Film. And the result is simply
refreshing.

Big Hero 6 is a beautiful film, showcasing how much animation has
become. The east and west coast mash up of San Fransokyo combines to
make such a spectacular scenery, that the city may as well be a
character to the film.

The cast is also fun to watch. One annoyance films try to do is by
shoving the diversity of characters in your face. Big Hero 6 doesn't do
that, instead the focus is on the characters themselves and not the
diversity, making it enjoyable to watch. One of the biggest highlights
is the girls of the cast. I took my 3 nieces with my friends and I, and
they loved how they were smart, enjoyable and didn't need to fall for a
man. The cast is truly relatable, whether you are precise like Wasabi,
positive like Honey Lemon or just a guy who loves media like Fred.

Of course the star of the film is the robot of Baymax. Any scene that
he is in steals the show, whether it is his introduction or his care
for Hiro and Company.

The Villain by far is one of the best villains in recent Disney
history, he doesn't sing, dance or monologue, he simply gets the job
done.

The film showcases the action greatly by giving large scopes and music
that fits exceptionally well. Emotionally, the film captures the
audience by showcasing the bond of brotherhood between Hiro and his
older brother Tadashi, as well as his friend Baymax who is like a
Surrogate brother to our main hero.

A strong lesson in this film, is that family can be more than blood
related, you have friends, who become part of that. That really showed
how much I cared for the loved ones around me, especially my older
brother who is in the military, creating robots and fixing medical
equipment.

If there was one complaint I would give, I would've like to see a
little bit more about the rest of the team. Other than that, Big Hero 6
is a heartwarming tale that captures something for the entire family.

Big Hero 6 is another showing that Disney can continue to make great
films after the juggernaut that was Frozen. This film showcases that
the Disney Revival (Films such as The Princess and the Frog, Tangled,
Wreck-it-Ralph and Frozen) is not over yet, and I cannot wait to see
what the next film has to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, when I saw the preview I thought it was going to be
another Disney movie gone bad. So when the movies came around, I had
really low expectations for it. But holy crap nothing has made me laugh
this hard at a movie since maybe Amelie or Up! Baymax is a
non-threatening huggable robot who's only purpose is to nurse those who
are in need of medical attention. The only way to wake him up is to
scream out "OW" and he is alive and will help you until you are better.
The only way to put him back to sleep is to say "I'm satisfied with
your work" (Or something like that I'm only paraphrasing) and he has
gone back to sleep. But this movie isn't all comedy: it does have a bit
of an emotional side to it which I won't go into too much detail about.
However I do know that the movie isn't really like the comic books: the
back stories of the characters aren't how they are in the movie and
even the plot itself isn't like how the movie is, so for the devoted
comic book fans, I understand if you hate this movie. However the
people who didn't read the comics confuse me when they say it's
"Cliche" "awful" "boring". I found none of these things in the movie at
all. I was smiling right from the beginning and found myself a little
teary-eyed towards the end. 

So I do recommend this movie if you're up for a nice light movie with a
lot of laughs: it might be better than you think.
<|_=00=_|>
The last time I left a cinema feeling anything close to this elated was
after Gravity. My heart was racing, I felt so joyful. I never feel like
this after a film. Big Hero 6 immediately replaces the Lego movie as my
No.1, main stream, animated film. 

I came onto IMDb to find out more about this entertaining, action
packed, emotional roller-coaster only to see half a dozen vicious
reviews ... I feel so somber. I can't believe anyone would loath this
film to the levels of some reviewers have gone to on this site. It was
an absolute joy. The whole cinema was ecstatic, both kids and adults. 

I have a 7 year old boy, and even without being a dad, I'd still love
this film. Hope it picks up the awards (Oscar, Golden Globe, BAFTA etc
etc) it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Please don't listen to the bad reviews and watch this yourself.

I registered with IMDb just to write this. That is how much faith I
have in this film. I really cannot believe some of these bad reviews..
"Not a kids film"?? kids would go mental for this.

Animation was nothing short of exquisite

Comedy was extremely funny (and i'm not one for comedies)

Story line was really great too

Also made me cry a little... meh

please please please watch how awesome this is. i'm nearly 28 and I
absolutely loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney has brought many gifts and rarely disappoints me. Big Hero 6 is
one of the best Disney films I have seen since last year's Frozen. This
film is fun, clever, imaginative, and filled with spectacle. While the
film is somewhat similar to Pixar's The Incredibules due the film's
plot dealing with robots and and children with superpowers, it is very
enjoyable and would easy please children as well as parents. 

Big Hero 6 is not only brings out the charm with heart-filling
characters and comic relief but has some of the most dazzling CGI I
have seen in a Disney movie. The animators did a fantastic job on the
character models and the environment was nice looking. My favorite
character would probably be Baymax. What's not to like about a funny,
inflatable robot who cracks funny one-liners,has the power to heal, and
assists Hiro (main character) on his quest to defeat an evil scientist? 

I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this movie. I recommend this movie
to all parents and children. Big Hero is a family thrill ride!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Having the opportunity to view this film twice really helped me get a
perspective of the film that many may not have right now. This film is
not FROZEN... it is not filled with songs or magical snowmen.

But this film has something else, it has family, friends, action ,
drama, and most of all a big robot named Baymax who will examine your
funny bone and sense of humor . The film shows what kind of magic
Disney can do with super hero's . The story is fast paced for the most
part and the laughs and entertainment are high flying, that is if you
like heights , but if you don't its OK because this movie knows how to
get down also. 

The characters work well with each other, kinda like the scooby doo
crowd but twist that with a bit of incredibles and you have a fun
filled, action packed movie that will delight boys and girls of all
ages and keep parents happy that they took their child to see this. I
know my family and I enjoyed it twice and will be back for multiple
viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
Big Hero 6 [2014] is the Disney 3-D animated comedy action film that
centers on Hiro Hamada, a 14-year old robotics prodigy, Baymax (an
inflatable health companion robot) and an unlikely team of superheros. 

5/5 graphics. Big Hero 6 transports viewers into a new visual realm and
relatively individual style (besides its anime resemblance). The story
is set in the futuristic city of 'San Fransokyo'. A little of Tokyo and
San Francisco in one place. This explains the amalgamation of both
Japanese and American components within the story and setting. It
should be noted that Big Hero 6 is not a wholly original idea, and the
animation is inspired by the Marvel comic by the very same name. 

Baymax. Voiced by Scott Adsit, this lovable robot is animated to appear
soft, cuddly and adorable, credit goes to the graphics and writing team
on this one. Hiro's close friendship with Baymax is a highlight. Baymax
can hold his own on the screen alone too, just strolling through the
city streets, caring for others health and well-being. So yeah, he's
cute and he knows it. 

Expect to have a couple of teary moments. I won't describe or skim
through details, out of utmost respect for those who haven't had a
chance to see it yet. Since more serious topics aren't the usual in
children targeted animation films, it's a nice change of pace. 

Fantastic message for the young'uns. The main character Hiro (voiced by
Ryan Potter) and the rest of the superheros team study robotics at the
local university (including T.J. Miller from Silicon Valley and Damon
Wayans Jr from New Girl). Reach your potential, practice non-violence
and exercise sacrifice. That's just the tip of the iceberg. There are
more spoiler-worthy ones that will be omitted from this review
entirely. By the way, it's not 'preachy' in the slightest.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains spoilers, pass this review if you don't want to see any
spoilers, such as end scenes and more.

I actually wasn't planning to watch this particular movie, until my
friends told me it was a good movie and that I should watch it.

I decided to try it and see how it goes. I instantly fell in love with
Baymax. He's huggable and simply adorable. Along with that, he's a
HEALTHCARE companion! It was certainly a HILARIOUS movie, and I enjoyed
every last bit of it.

I love how that Hiro, originally a boy who was interested only in bot
fights, decides to do something big- starting with joining the nerd
lab. There. he meets people like Wasabi, Fred, Go-Go, and more. 

This movie also played with your emotions. And no, not just a little
bit, but a lot. Disney seriously did a good job doing that. This movie
was one of those that actually almost made me cry. Near the end, Baymax
had supposedly "died" and that made me very emotional. I was so happy
that at the end, Hiro managed to make another Baymax using the chip the
original Baymax had left behind. 

All I have to say is that this movie is definitely one worth watching,
especially if you like humorous animated films.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this animated film a number of times now, and have not
grown to become sick of it. I love the plot, the characters (especially
my favorite, GoGo) and am so thrilled that this film won an Oscar for
Best Animated Film 2015. The only downside is that my favorite male
character, Tadashi, dies, but I understand why the writers included
this in the plot, for it had a huge impact on the film and brought
great reflection to - especially - Hiro Hamada. The idea that the
overall 'hero' is a non-threatening vinyl 'marshmallow' brings further
interest to the film, for he ends up saving just about all of the
protagonists lives, not to mention he is a very appropriate character
for all audiences, as well is the film entirely. All in all, I rated
this film 10 out of 10 stars for its excellence, in my opinion, and
look forward to any future works that will come out of this film!
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin? Big hero Six is one of the best movies I've seen all
year. In one of my previous reviews, I used the term over and over
again that Disney has always done what it's done and should stick to
that. And this movie has! Running Disney themes have this movie that
gets me very happy with Disney. This movie as I said in my previous
review brings us back from the god awful frozen. Very original and I'll
bring this back from any any old tales or fairy tales, big hero six
tells the tale of a young man's struggle to find the men who killed his
brother.With great action scenes good moral values and enough strength
and motivation in its stride it brings me back to good Faith with
Disney. Constant Disney clichés that always want to make me watch this
movie over and over again , with a side of no backtracking and no
unnecessary characters brings us to believe that Disney's got it back
again. This movies originality, good writing, and overall good happy
feeling, got me believing that Disney can move on from its mistakes.
Disney has shown that it can make a good movie again by showing that
you don't need a musical and ridiculous characters to get little kids
up and happy to buy your merchandise. This movie spoke to a wide
variety of people and not just easily fooled little kids. This movie
must've been a stowaway on the crap boat that was frozen and
maleficent.This movie is a rare occasion of well done combinations of
different elements (superheroes, Disney clichés, etc). If you lost your
money to frozen watch this movie so you metaphorically won't waste it.
