
I just saw this amazing movie at its Sundance premiere. It's wonderful
on so many levels I don't know where to start. The performances are
fantastic. If Julie Delpy doesn't get an Oscar nomination it would be a
shame (the only stupider thing the Academy could do is have 10 best
picture nominations.) Ethan Hawke's performance is brilliant in its own
way, however, it's a less showy part and I'm not certain it'll get the
recognition it deserves. 

The writing is astounding. Sharp, intelligent, biting, humorous, with
staggering subtext, but most importantly--it feels real. If the
screenplay doesn't get an Oscar nomination it would be a shame (the
only thing stupider the Academy could do is have 15 best picture
nominations.)

Rick Linklater is now officially the Jedi master of indie filmmaking
(Yoda Soderbergh actually said he's giving up filmmaking.) SLACKERS was
only 22 years ago, and Linklater has matured into one of the most
original filmic storytellers in the history of the medium. 95% of the
movie is two-shots of people talking (the other 5% is people talking at
a dinner table and cut aways to the gorgeous Greek landscape.) I don't
know any other living filmmaker who could pull this off. There's a
one-take during a car drive that lasts probably ten minutes (before a
brief cut away), however, it goes on for probably another ten minutes
(and Linklater said he could have kept the whole take, but needed to
show ruins along the country side and cut away for script purposes, not
performance.) There's a 30 minute scene of the two actors in a hotel
room and I didn't even notice it (by that time I was so invested in the
characters and their actions and emotions I wasn't even aware of time,
it wasn't until the post screening Q&A that Linklater mentioned the
actual time of the scene.) 

All three, Linklater, Delpy, and Hawke have matured into their rolls
(writing, directing, acting) so easily that it's all just great fun for
them and the audience. This is a must see for many reasons (including
the history of film--there's only one other modern trilogy where the
final film is the best--LOTR, and their food budget was probably more
than the total cost of BEFORE MIDNIGHT.)

i could go on gushing about this movie ad nauseum, however I'll finish
by saying that BEFORE MIDNIGHT is what indie film making (and the
Sundance Film Festival) is all about--truly original, creative, unique,
interesting characters and their stories, told outside the Hollywood
system, by people passionate about their craft (and in this case at the
top of their craft).
<|_=00=_|>
Before Midnight is a different type of animal this time around. I
didn't expect the team could top an already beautiful story but what
they achieve in the newest installment is the most accurate and
authentic portrayals of love since Michel Gondry's Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind (2004). The film is an absolute marvel, showcasing
the very best dialogue and capturing the sheer essence of acting
brilliance from stars Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Director Richard
Linklater has also created the crowning work of his directorial career,
showing incredible restraint and focus on two characters that still
feel just as new and fresh as the day we met them. The film opens with
a near fifteen minute take that gets its hook into you and never lets
up. It's a cinematic sensation. 

Midnight takes place nine years after the events of Sunset. Jesse and
Céline are still together and have managed to have twin girls, Nina and
Ella, and are living in Europe. The film takes place at the tail end of
a six-week vacation in Greece where Jesse has just dropped off his
thirteen-year-old son Hank, from his previous marriage, at the airport
for his return back to Chicago. Realizing that he's missing the
formative years of Hank's teenage life, Jesse and Céline explore the
option of possibly making a move to America, leaving opportunities and
a life in Europe behind. 

This film is easily the best film of the franchise so far. Packing an
emotional and euphoric punch like third-installments like Toy Story 3
(2010) and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003), films
that have a close-nit relation to their predecessors but saving all the
masterful speeches and epiphanies for the viewer to indulge in their
finales. Obviously there's no big fantasy battle or a near death
experience in an incinerator for the meaning of life to be physically
explained but in the power of words, and words alone, Before Midnight
manages to become the poster child for screen writing and brilliant
storytelling for years to come. The film doesn't take any cheap shots
with every scene constructed from real emotion and feeling incredibly
authentic and genuine. There are long takes for the viewer to be
present whether it's in an airport conversation between Jesse and Hank
or at a lunch with in the beautiful valleys of Greece or even in a
hotel room where a man and a woman share intimacy like older lovers
typically do. 

Ethan Hawke is an actor that never quite caught onto the awards circuit
for some odd reason. Nominated for his performance alongside Denzel
Washington in Training Day (2001), Hawke has shown tremendous range
throughout his career including missed opportunities for recognition in
Sidney Lumet's Before the Devil Knows You're Dead (2007). As Jesse this
time around, Hawke uses every ounce of magnetism, charisma, and acting
ability to bring himself to the levels of legendary actors like Daniel
Day-Lewis and Marlon Brando. He becomes a man all too familiar to the
male viewer and ignites the film into a spectacular frenzy of passion.
Hawke isn't afraid to show the inner turmoil of Jesse as the growing
cancer of guilt has come to the surface. He works moment after moment
in expressing the bewildering beauty of love at the expense of one's
own values and sacrifice. He's almost the distant, and utterly toned
down, cousin of Freddie Quell from Paul Thomas Anderson's The Master
(2012), a man so complex but inserted with terrific character beats and
an actor willing to commit entirely to the craft to portray him
flawlessly. Hawke surpasses not only his past features but the very
being of himself as an actor. It's his finest turn yet. 

Julie Delpy is as imaginative and magnetic as ever. She's a wonderful
presence, often very skillful example of acting on the finest level.
She executes the pure feelings of uncertainty in conjuncture with the
script which is a clear and marvelous character study on love. She's
wildly immersed into Céline, accomplishing not only a somewhat free-
spirited damaged woman but a sex appeal that triggers any person's
romantic desires. She's an effortless existence in the film, which
makes Céline not only explicitly real, but tenderly and mysteriously
loving for the viewer. It's a performance that defines her abilities as
an actress and one that will be remembered fifty years from now as we
all think back on the amazement of Julie Delpy. 

The film is breathtakingly accurate and precise in capturing the love
and relationship of couples, it will and should be studied by film
schools and writers for years to come. Linklater bares his soul, frame
after frame, showing confidence of his own idiosyncratic vision of this
story and being as accessible to even the youngest of people. This is
Linklater's most personal tribute to the scope of cinema and will be
his defining moment on the silver screen. The film is a must-see and is
the first masterpiece that 2013 has to offer. Before Midnight is an
instant Oscar-contender and a triumph in filmmaking. It's the go-to
film of the Tribeca Film Festival and the best picture of the year so
far.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get tickets for the one of the Before Midnight-
screenings at the Berlin Film Festival this year.

Being a big fan of both Before Sunrise and Before Sunset, I was truly
thrilled to see this new (last?) chapter of Jesse and Celine's
relationship.

To sum up the story shortly without spoiling too much, we meet Jesse
and Celine 9 years after the events of Sunset. They are now a couple
with a pair of twin daughters, and Jesse is struggling to adapt to the
role of being a separated father for his son, Hank, having him fly
several times back and forth between the United States and France,
where Jesse lives with Celine and the daughters. On the last day of
their vacation in Greece, Jesse and Celine are trying to find the spark
in their relationship again - we are dealing with a couple, like so
many others, who in their 'middleage crisis' start asking themselves
"where am I in my life, why do I live it this way, and does my
husband/wife still love me?".

For me, the relevance of the film, is its force, along with of course
the acting and the script, which Hawke and Delpy again have written
together with Linklater. Hawke and Delpy are so much into their
characters and you feel how deep their relationship is established - it
feels very natural and just like watching a couple in the 21st century.
We live in a world where couple's separate, find a new partner, get
children, separates again, find a new partner, get new children again
(maybe this is a bit extreme, but something like that). Both the
husband and wife have jobs and their relationships are affected when
suddenly, the only things they are dealing with his who gets the
groceries, who picks up the children from the kindergarten etc., and
the love and romance between one another slowly fades away. That's the
relevance to the age we live in now, that is so strong in Midnight.

I can highly recommend fans of the two first movies to see it, and if
you are not familiar with the movies, you are certainly in for a treat!
In my eyes, Midnight works very well for as an end to a trilogy, but
the door is of course a little open for another sequel 9 years in the
future (2022...?)

Again, the acting is superb (the entire hotel scene is magnificent!),
and dialog is so grounded, natural and strong and the film has
relevance and could inspire a lot of couples struggling with their
relationship to their partner.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw Richard Linklater's Before Midnight his newest and third
film about Jesse and Celine the couple who meet as young adults in
Before Sunrise and re-meet as adults in Before Sunset (one of my five
favorite films).

This is simply brilliant film making: funny, raw, emotionally honest
and complicated. The couple (Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy who both
co-wrote with Linklater) are now in their 40s and face some very real
challenges to their menage. I started laughing and crying within about
3 minutes and both emotions kept up until the very end. Everyone sat
through the credits so they could wipe their faces clean. Brilliant
acting . . .

This film gives one hope for the state of American film making and
reminds you that Linklater is one of our most underrated auteurs. I
sincerely hope he continues and I live long enough to see the couple
well into their senior years.

Even if you have never seen the first two movies, do not miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost, this is not your typical mainstream summer movie.
However, if you're reading this, then I'm sure you've already seen the
two preceding films, Before Sunrise and Before Sunset. If you have,
then you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. This movie is driven
by the characters and their dialog. No fancy special effects, no
elaborate sets, no uber-popular actors to stuff in the movie to make
people watch it. Just great dialog from two excellent actors.

Now that that's out of the way, I was a little uninterested when
hearing about this movie, that it was filmed in Greece. However, after
seeing the film tonight, I find that the setting was quite lovely and
really had little to do with the movie itself. The movie was more about
how these two main characters are dealing with getting older and being
parents, and how over time, your opinions about things and about each
other can change.

One thing I've always liked about these movies is the gritty realism of
the two characters. Being an American myself, and previously having a
French girlfriend (and living in France), I can totally relate to the
two characters and the idiosyncrasies that are attributed to both of
them in this story of their lives.

This movie was, once again, a model example of good dialog and great
characters! I was very happy to see this movie, and I'm glad to see the
writers haven't lost their touch. This movie was written by not only
the director, but also the two main actors, and this series is really
their "baby" - you can tell much love and care went into these films,
even though they are all shot very quickly and with a small budget. I
love how there are very few cuts in most of the scenes, and you can
tell that everything about this movie was simple. This is a true breath
of fresh air in time full of poorly-written movies and cheap special
effects.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed Before Sunrise when I first saw it, and thought it was a
clever, charming movie with an innovative approach. In my opinion
though, Before Sunrise was vastly elevated by being paired with Before
Sunset 9 years later.

Before Sunset is an exceptional movie, much more melancholic than its
predecessor, but understandably so because the characters had grown up
and had to let go of childish notions of fairytale happy ever afters.
What makes Before Sunset so wonderful though is the notion throughout
that even though things went wrong it's never too late to fix them. 

Before Midnight is a different film to the previous two. In my opinion
it is about two people who, having made the mistake of losing contact
the first time, will work to make sure it never happens again. They
were never going to have a fairytale life because they are both very
complicated, and I liked the realism of how their relationship
developed as they got older. 

I strongly disagree with other reviewers who say that Before Midnight
can be watched without seeing the previous two. I criticised people who
did that for Before Sunset and would caution against it even more for
this one. Before Midnight relies on the idea that the audience
understands how complicated the characters are and therefore continues
to like them even when they do things which could seem nasty and
shallow. 

In summary, while my favourite of the three movies remains Before
Sunset, Before Midnight adds richly to the overarching story that has
been told, in real time over 18 years, of two characters that fans of
the series have grown to love. As a three part series, the Before
movies are practically perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
The 56th San Francisco International came to a close at the magnificent
Castro Theatre with a showing of Richard Linklater's "Before Midnight",
the third in Linklater's series of "Before" films. Preceded by "Before
Sunrise" and "Before Sunset", the film continues the story of Jesse and
Celine, now a middle-aged, two child couple on vacation in Greece.
Things are not quite right between the two, and there is much to be
said between them. So they talk. For two hours. And it is absolutely
enthralling.

I have to admit that I haven't seen the first two films. I was aware of
them, but they just never jumped out at me as something I had to see. I
admire Linklater's work ( I thought last year's "Bernie" was one of the
best films of the year) but just never had a reason to put seeing those
films above others I had more interest in. I attended the screening
mainly because it was the closing night film, but had concerns that not
having seen the previous two would put me at a disadvantage in
appreciating his latest. Festival friend (and "Before" series lover)
Stacy McCarthy assured me the film stands on its own.

She was right. Nothing much goes on in this film but conversations
between people, but these conversations are fascinating and have a
sense of reality about them often missing from films of this nature.
Credit for that obviously goes to director Linklater and actors Ethan
Hawke and Julie Delpy, who collaborated on the script. It doesn't hurt
that the film was shot in Greece, but the picturesque beauty of that
country comes second to the riveting portrayal of a couple at the stage
of life where the often painful questioning of a couple's future
begins.

Two hours with these characters flew by, and as the credits rolled my
first thoughts were about how much I really liked the film, and how I
need to think more "out of the box" when it comes to selecting films to
view. I'm guilty of often limiting my scope, and I'm thankful that Film
Festivals force me to widen my film horizons.

www.worstshowontheweb.com
<|_=00=_|>
I can consider myself a fan of the before series of films, I saw Before
Sunrise years before the sequel came out and hipsters started jumping
on the band wagon of this film. To explain why before midnight fails I
need to explain the film from the perspective of both Before Sunrise
and Before Sunset.

Now Before Sunrise was a slightly flawed yet still really captivating
and original film about two people who randomly by chance meet in
Europe, Jesse the American and Celine the french girl. They walk around
together for a day until dawn and then Jesse must catch his plane back
to America and thats it the end, they agree to meet up again a year
later but as we find out in Before Sunset that falls apart.

Now Before Sunrise is cute because they are both supposed to be 23 in
the film and its OK for 23 year olds to have stupid ideas or be overly
dramatic because hey they are young and thats how it works. In Before
Sunrise the cracks started to show, the film still held up but the plot
began to meander into strange directions, first off when they meet up
again they still decide to be "cutesy" around each other which is a
little odd for people in their thirties to be that way. But the
cuteness of the situation is allowed as they haven't seen each other in
a long time, also the weakness of Before Sunset exists because get this
Jesse writes an acclaimed book to get Celine back and the book is about
how they both met.

The concept of Jesse as an author is weak because it is very apparent
that the guy is kind of stupid and a goof, there is never any
indication of depth or being an articulate human being. The other thing
is in Before Sunset you get the feeling these two should not be
together, they are different and Celine gets annoyed by Jesse but that
of course is all very slight. The "celine getting annoyed by Jesse"
plot line takes the front and center part of the stage in Before
Midnight.

Really this should have just been two movies, I truly believe that. In
part one they separate at the end and in part two they get back
together and stay together and just leave it at that. Before Midnight
first off doesn't function quite well because of this fact, Jesse and
Celine still have stupid cheap back and forth banter between each other
except that doesn't make sense because now they aren't 23 and they
definitely haven't gone a long time without seeing each other so they
are 40 somethings who argue about nothingness.

During the first segment of the movie, Jesse and Celine driving back
from the airport with their daughters in the back, Celine gives Jesse a
hard time about eating one of their daughters apples but in a way a 14
year old would taunt another 14 year old not the way a couple in a long
term relationship would act. There are many examples of that and thus
begins a two hour long film filled with Celine's passive aggressive and
aggressive aggressive attitude towards Jesse.

You get the feeling Celine truly and genuinely hates every aspect of
her life, she is with a guy that she thinks is dumb, she has two kids
when she never wanted any kids, her environmental job always results in
failures and having to work with idiots shes annoyed by every aspect of
her existence and its truly miserable to have to watch her. There's
nothing entertaining or charming about Celine, she is simply very very
bitter at Jesse for "ruining" her life by getting involved with her.

Now the argument here is "well this is reality" OK watching paint dry
is also an element of reality it doesn't mean I want to go to a movie
theater and experience it. This film is different there's none of that
whimsical carefree attitude that exists in the first two movies. The
few brief moments of entertainment come from Celine not being around,
Jesse has some conversations early on with some author who invited him
out to Greece to stay with him.

Also when Jesse and Celine arrive at the hotel the owner of the hotel
asks Jesse to sign a copy of the books he has written then begs Celine
to sign them which she refuses because being angry and bitter is all
she knows how to be in this film. Finally Jesse pressures her into
signing them, but shes angry as always. Also twice Celine is on the
phone with Jesse's son and then hangs up before he has a chance to chat
with him, which is actually pretty rude.

This was such a garbage movie, an utter waste of time and talent,
although probably not that much of a waste of time for those who made
it I am sure they shot it and scripted it in about 5 days. The critics
have all praised this movie but they only praise things that are
different, and sitting and listening to two people argue incessantly on
screen for 2 hours is certainly different but also stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite what idealized viewers might think when it comes to their
beloved romance films there are numerous events and circumstances that
can occur outside the frame that could strengthen, fracture, or
challenge that particular relationship beyond the assumed happily ever
after conclusion. This idea behind continued uncertainty is essentially
called life and though the realist perspective might damage some
optimist hopes there is a genuine beauty to the wonderful truth that is
a relationship that cultivates or fissures in the face life's
challenges. Eclectic filmmaker Richard Linklater, known for such
diverse films such as his debut indie feature Slacker and his wide
appeal comedy School of Rock, understood the idea of life beyond the
ending credits once he reintroduced his two romantic leads Jesse (Ethan
Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy) with a chance encounter in Before
Sunset after their initial meeting nine years earlier in Before
Sunrise. Before Midnight, the latest chapter of this ingenious film
series, offers the creative staples that the romantic saga is known for
with Linklater's consistently delicate observational style, Hawke and
Delpy's engaged performances, philosophical witty banter relating to
relationships, life, and more but this time unfolding the details of a
relationship that has marinated beyond its initial romantic beginnings
and changed into something far more palpable, strained, and relatable.
The collaborative writing between Linklater, Hawke, and Delpy
demonstrates their immense understanding of their created characters
and deliver their most uncomfortably emotional and richly
life-affirming vignette in this particular reflective road stop in the
lives of Jesse and Celine. When poet John Keats wrote the famous last
line "truth is beauty, beauty truth" in his poem "An Ode to a Grecian
Urn" he realized that even the most unpleasant truths had intense
beauty in its mere recognized existence and the Before saga is one of
the purest cinematic exercises in revealing that kind of beautiful
truth. Before Midnight takes the initially romantic setups in Before
Sunrise and Before Sunset and expands them into their most logical and
equally emotional prolongation where it expands the narrative strength,
character vivacity, and philosophical importance of the series into a
fully realized and painfully heartfelt whole that speaks uncomfortable
truths in an engagingly entertaining way.

Read more: http://wp.me/py8op-yV; more reviews: generationfilm.net
<|_=00=_|>
(I'll warn when I get to the spoilers)

This is the third in a trilogy which includes Before Sunrise and Before
Sunset. I can't imagine this one being watched as a stand-alone movie
and having anything near the effect it should. In fact, I would even
recommend watching these several years apart. I watched these movies as
they were released, and being the same age as this fictional but very
realistic couple made it more of an involving experience.

The strongest aspects of this trilogy are the flowing endless dialogue,
the acting, and the real characters. As opposed to many other opinions
though, I sometimes felt that the dialogue in the last two movies
became too pretentious and condensed to be real. These movies need more
silence, pauses and looks.

In Before Sunrise, they were in their early 20s, smart and practical
but open to experience an idealistic short romance based on their
chance encounter. They connected, they were charming, they were real,
and they pulled it off much to the delight of audiences.

In Before Sunset and nine years later, for the first half of the movie,
they were unbearably self-obsessed and pretentious and talked at each
other instead of with each other. They spent a few hours together, and
gradually their attraction and chemistry came back, and made you
believe that they may actually recover from their last few years of
miserable relationships and closed-minded lifeless lives that were
obviously bringing them down, as long as they got together and
developed what they had. Some charm and romance crept in despite their
newfound self-deprecating cynicism, leaving audiences with an
open-ended ending full of potential. I hated it at first, then grew to
like it better on second viewing.

In Before Midnight, in a too-realistic portrayal, they have been a
couple for 9 years (with kids), but their personality differences have
not been worked on and their marriage is on the rocks.

Jesse is a successful writer but his break with his previous wife and
son in order to be with Celine is causing increasing strains in his
current marriage. Little annoying things he does add to the strain, but
what is very obvious in this movie is that she doesn't love him anymore
so every little thing adds to the complaints.

Celine in this movie is like an amalgam of every neurosis in modern
women. She is an angry activist, an angry feminist, an unfulfilled
angry wife, a woman who is so lost and confused regarding what she
wants, she cannot be satisfied no matter how many efforts he makes to
clarify things and express his love for her, and she doesn't have the
tools and outlook to fix her feelings for him so this is a Sisyphean
task in any case. As three-dimensional as she is, this is not a
sympathetic character to say the least.

*spoilers* 

Which is why, at the end of the movie, anyone with a brain will realize
that the small bone she throws him at the end is worthless and that
this marriage is doomed. Which is why, as realistic as this movie is,
it simply was not enjoyable. Not that movies need to be fun or
romantic, but I do expect them to be rewarding or insightful in one way
or another. I do not need to go to the movies to watch neurotic people
flail at their last threads of marriage and fail at it miserably
because of commonplace emotional incompetence.

If there is a next movie in a few years, the only possible outcome is
that they got divorced soon after this night, and they get together one
more time to talk about how they failed their marriage with humorous
hindsight and resignation. And then they have sex for old time's sake
because the attraction will still be there, although they have no clue
what to do with it. That's my screenplay for the next one.

But Ingmar Bergman already covered similar ground with his superb and
recommended 'Scenes from a Marriage'.

If it were up to me, I would have made this movie differently: The
fight wouldn't have been so convincingly final. And they would recover
from a vicious fight because they made us believe that they built a
solid loving base with which to recover. That could have been just as
deep, realistic and much more enjoyable.
