
Critics and wannabe critics alike really lashed into this one. And I
guess I have them to thank for me liking (not loving) this movie, as
they lowered my standards significantly before I walked into the
theater. Like them, my expectations were sky-high. I figured since
Wally Pfister has been Christopher Nolan's cinematographer since 2000's
Memento, maybe some sort of slow-release genius-osmosis had taken
place, and Transcendence would be a stellar thriller/head- scratcher
like we've come to expect from Nolan. Well, the cold hard fact is that
it's not. But it sure isn't terrible.

As scientists are on the verge of a new breakthrough in A.I.
technology, a rouge terrorist group known as RIFT begins knocking off
labs around the country. One of their antics is the assassination, by
radioactive poisoning, of scientist Dr. Will Caster. As his body slowly
deteriorates, his wife and his partner work frantically work on a way
to upload his mind to a computer, thus allowing him to continue his
research. And as anyone could've guessed, the plan goes completely to
hell.

Transcendence is not excellent, but it's also not the travesty that
reviews from people more reputable than me are calling it. The main
problem is the script. An excellent script can make you buy into even
the most ridiculous of plots, but first-time-writer Jack Paglen's
script never finds a constant tone, is unevenly paced, has
underdeveloped side plots, and keeps you at arm's length from any
connection with the characters and the story. In other words, it
doesn't raise up any concerns or ideas we haven't already seen, and the
shallowness of the script gives you plenty of time to question the
incongruence of the story.

Other than that, Transcendence is pretty good. Pfister's direction is
expedient, and he avoids the jumpy camera syndrome that typically
plagues these kinds of movies. In fact I was even getting trappings of
Chris Nolan's directing style at times (is it just me?). The ensemble
performance from the cast is solid. The cast list may look like Nolan's
leftovers, but they do an excellent job, and they make better use of
the paltry script than I thought possible. Even though Pfister was
behind the camera and not the cinematographer, you think he was going
to let his baby look mundane? While not as gorgeous as, say Inception,
Jess Hall hits it home and makes Transcendence look properly futuristic
while still squeezing in some contrasting elements of nature in almost
every frame.

Does 6 stars seem too high? I don't think so. In my mind,
10=revolutionary, 9=excellent, 8=very good, 7=pretty good and 6=jusk
OK. An airtight script that rises up to the challenge was all that was
needed to make Transcendence truly, um, transcendent. But it doesn't,
and the lackluster script affects every other technical aspect of this
film like a virus, and makes Transcendence a pretty- to-look-at popcorn
movie. I know this is Wally Pfister's first time in the director's
chair, but I still feel he was capable of making a film more nuanced
than this.
<|_=00=_|>
This film will most likely split down the middle because of it's
religious tones of God and evolution. Some people will love it and some
will hate it because it might go against their belief system. 

For movie purposes, it has great acting, great story (though some may
feel it's a little too far fetched, which I personally don't think is
too far fetched when you see what the world was like 10 years ago
before the mainstream web), and pretty good action scenes.

At the heart, it's a story about a woman, Evelyn, who loves her
husband, Will, so much she tries to hold onto him by helping him save
his consciousness. She begins to wrestle with whether this being is
really Will or is something new. It's also about evolution and the line
between humanity and evolving into something more. This movie might be
a turn off for religious people but it does make you think of what
humanity could become whether you're religious or not. 

Overall, it's a great movie that's enjoyable, thought provoking,
challenges some beliefs, and foreshadows some future realities we will
all have to soon deal with. 

I would say go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Transcendence, much like most of the latest sci-fi themed films to hit
cinemas, is a wasted effort. It exhibits signature Pfister
cinematography that we've come to love over the past decade. With
Nolan's Batman trilogy and Inception, it was only a matter of time for
Wally Pfister to take a stab at directing. Unfortunately, the only
thing that seems well done in this film is the cinematography. The
story, while seeming fresh and exciting on paper, devolves into a half
baked idea with mediocre acting. Johnny Depp does the best he can while
only being a mere voice during the latter half of the film. The rest of
the cast seems wasted, this is especially true because we know how
great Paul Bettany, Morgan Freeman and Rebecca Hall can be. Wally
Pfister focuses more on capturing really fantastic shots but seems
never truly devoted to the actual story. This comes as a major
disappointment especially because of the hype that this film has been
generating over the last year. When it boils down to it, Transcendence
is just another exercise in style over substance, never matriculating
to anything more than an average sci-fi thriller that has a criminally
underused cast and phenomenal camera-work.
<|_=00=_|>
Truly the questions this film asks leave me wondering. So let's start
with the film itself, as a scifi thriller, it's beautifully executed
with some stunning visuals, to the extent that sometimes it has the
feel of a travel advertisement. The story hangs together well, with
strong central performances which keep you engaged. Some of the ethics
are quite complex, and you have to ask if the machine's intent is
really hostile, or is that just the interpretation characters are
putting on it because they don't understand. And we fear what we do not
understand. The intent here is clearly to tell a story in such a way
that you walk away thinking about it. Job done. I came away thoroughly
entertained, and thinking more about singularity and transcendence than
I have in quite a while. If you are after a Saturday afternoon
blockbuster with a lot of action, this might not be the film for you,
but if you prefer your action with a little more intrigue, this is a
great film.
<|_=00=_|>
Transcendence had so much potential. Johnny Depp. Morgan Freeman. Big
budget sci-fi thriller commenting on the evolutionary struggle between
man and machine. What could possibly go wrong? 

Everything, apparently. 

There is no way that a scientist (Paul Bettany), who's been off the
grid in a cave somewhere for two years, could write a virus that would
outsmart a self-aware supercomputer (Johnny Depp) so advanced over the
same time period that it can literally build a human copy of itself
from the sands of the earth. No way. 

Even if the original source code was written by said cave scientist,
the movie establishes that the supercomputer has been re-writing its
code ever since it became self-aware. Paul's character wasn't even as
smart as the human Johnny Depp, and we're expected to believe that Paul
can outsmart Johnny as a supercomputer with unlimited resources? Sigh. 

And to the subject of national defense. A lone FBI agent, who's not
even a high ranking official, makes the decision to side with a known
terrorist group to shut down all networks and electricity on the
planet? Seriously? The United States government, or any other world
government, would sooner take out the terrorist cell (and the FBI
agent) and negotiate with the supercomputer before allowing all
hospitals, communication, commerce, defense and refrigeration to shut
down in a moment's notice.

And even if we take the premise that the supercomputer committed
suicide to save the life of the scientist who wrote the virus, why
would he do that? He could have easily saved the scientist, his wife
(Rebecca Hall)and everyone else, by just taking the gun from the
terrorist holding the scientist hostage. He can sprout nanotechnology
from the ground (which is how he took everybody else's gun). Double
sigh. 

I was very disappointed, again because this movie had so much
potential. Instead of being awesome, it's just another classic example
of poor script writing and relying on big names and special effects to
do the job. What's worse, the makers of this film should have known
better. 

Shame. 

Normally, I'd give this movie a 4/10. However, for its audacity to
advertise brilliance and be anything but, it gets a 1.
<|_=00=_|>
No irony in the above. The irrational and immensely stupid human
reactions are more than realistic, and paint a bleak future while also
explaining why we are stuck here today. People are scared of human
evolution and advancement, and do their utmost to prevent them from
happening. Think of religion or populistic yet unreasonable laws that
are based on religion or similarly unfounded assumptions. 

This film is great, the possibilities outlined are very real, and those
hurring it down have absolutely no knowledge of science and have no
imagination as to what the future may realistically hold. 

I would expect that Transcendence will do better in countries where
there is more critical thinking, such as Japan or most of Europe.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't know why all the negative review about this movie, but reading
their negative comment it seems to me that they expected something else
and it is not delivered hence they are throwing a tantrum and choose
not to enjoy the movie.

While its cons might be the lack of characters development this doesn't
change the fact that the story line and concept is better than a lot of
other movies and it is presented well. The story might feel a bit
stretched but it give us more time to think and enjoy the development
of the movie.

It doesn't show too much of the potential of an AI, nor it have a lot
of actions scenes, but it does show us a lot of perspective and views
on a single ideas, and what misunderstanding and doubt could do. The
movie doesn't show you what is right or wrong, or which is the best
solution, it only show us the thinking of each characters and the
consequences from their actions.

If you love thoughts provoking movie which leave you with a lot of
thinking, you will definitely like this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Transcendence is Wally Pfister's directorial debut about Dr. Will
Caster, who has his mind transferred into the largest supercomputer on
the face of the planet after he is shot by an anti-AI activist at a
conference. But, as Will begins to grow and expand, can his wife Evelyn
and Will's friends stop him before the Will they knew is completely
gone?

I find it truly pathetic how many people are hating on this movie, and
for some of the wrong reasons. I did go into this movie with high
expectations and was disappointed, but there was still a lot to salvage
from that was good. But first thing's first: the bad. Transcendence has
a fantastic story and great concepts, but the way it was delivered and
structured was incredibly poor and muddled. If you split the film in
half instead of thirds, the second half of the film is incredible and
ends how it should, but the first half suffers from time gaps, some
left out character development and poor pacing. But, this is really all
that's bad. 

The decent but disappointing aspects of the film are the ideas. The
film pitches grand and epic thoughts that grow, but the ideas it
preaches are never fully realized, at least the majority of them. Then,
the script by Jack Paglen suffered from inconsistencies and random plot
elements that did not really need to be there, or should have been
examined further (like RIFT). 

Now, the good and great. Wally's direction was superb; he really knew
what he was doing after working with Christopher Nolan for so long.
Pfister's style and unique eye helped save this movie from being a
total disaster, especially when it came to the action, the way the
camera moved with the scene and the characters or just the environment
itself. The acting was great, too, especially Paul Bettany in the
supporting role as Max, Will and Evelyn Caster's friend and fellow
scientist. He brought heart and emotion from the other side of the
spectrum, having an objective and subjective eye on the situation, with
the other (completely subjective) side being from Evelyn's point of
view. Rebecca Hall was great as Evelyn, a researcher clouded by her
love for Will, and challenged in deciding whether or not the thing Will
says he is, is actually Will or not. Johnny Depp was good, but it
wasn't until the end of the film when the audience feels emotionally
attached to him, as he's usually an emotionless AI, projected on
screens and glass. The visual effects were top-notch and some of the
best of the year hands-down, and the musical score by Mychael Danna was
haunting, beautiful and intense when it needed to be.

Transcendence is an actually good movie that deserves more credit than
the immense crap it's getting. And to those who keep comparing it to
the B-movie "Lawnmower Man," it's different. Sure, there are brief
similarities (melding man with machine), but that's it. It's an
original take on the "technology-will-destroy-humanity" cautionary
tale, and it's a disturbing one that does have some hopeful (and
resonating) humanity after the mayhem and chaos has settled. I hope
Wally Pfister gets to tackle another big sci-fi film, but one with a
different, more experienced writer.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a lot to love about Transcendence. Unfortunately, almost all of
it is killed by a very poor script. The film is so full of holes and
leaps in logic that it's hard to take any of it seriously or truly
enjoy it. Character's that should be villains turn into saviors and
characters that we expect to be allies turn into pariahs. There's no
one to really root for here and the story telling seems to exist only
to push certain ideas about technology and it's capabilities.

The story is fairly simple and can pretty much be seen in the trailers.
Doctor Will Caster is a brilliant scientist working to push A.I.
technology drastically. When he is fatally wounded with a time clock on
his life, his partner in life, Evelyn, has the brilliant idea of
transplanting his consciousness into a massive super computer. From
there, we have a rapidly pushed story that leads to a bunch of silly,
almost cool ideas about what computers could become capable of.

The first problem is evident in the first frame. We are immediately
aware of the ending, which left a bad taste in my mouth. The mystery of
how it is all going to end is immediately spoiled. So, all that's left
is the how. And the how is almost completely preposterous. We're led to
believe that the advancement of this super A.I. manages to grow to
unbelievable potential in only a matter of a couple of years. Somehow,
we're simply supposed to accept that everything we see is possible.
It's a massive leap of logic and one that is too hard to digest.
There's very little to suggest how any of it is possible, only simply
that it is and that very smart people are capable of making it all so.
We're also supposed to believe that the government never gets involved
and that the antagonists know what's going on, despite getting rid of
any technology that ties them to the world at large. You're simply
expected to go along with it. If you're able to, then more power to
you. I wasn't.

Much of the rest of the film is well done. The cinematography is as
good as you would expect. The acting varies. Paul Bettany, Johnny Depp,
and Rebecca Hall are all sufficient here. Morgan Freeman feels wasted
as he has very little to do but get led around. But again, the entire
thing suffers from a poor script and story. It's hard to give praise to
something so completely let down by it's core, but there are glimmers
of brilliance here. This being Wally Pfister's first film, it's not too
surprising it falters. But with Nolan having his name attached and
surely having guided the cinematographer who worked on most of his
films, it's hard to believe that this managed to go through with such a
faulty script. There are far too many holes and leaps in logic to
ignore, which makes this a huge disappointment in my eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
Dr Will Caster (Johnny Depp) develops a sentient computer device with
unsurpassed processing power. When fatally poisoned by a radical
techno-terrorist organisation he and his wife (Rebecca Hall) upload his
consciousness into his invention to preserve his life, but the now
unrestrained supercomputer soon develops a frightening ambition that
blurs the line between humanity and technology.

It seems that every few years somebody in Hollywood tries to redo The
Lawnmower Man, which is by no means a perfect movie (especially with
its laughable, early generation CGI) but it harbours an interesting
premise; what happens if we ignore our own judgement and let our
technology get the better of us?. It's an old sci-fi trope going back
decades that has definitely become a crutch of story telling to some
extent, but any good idea is worth exploring again, and with such an
impressive cast and a very promising production team behind it, hopes
were high for Transcendence to be a good movie.

Unfortunately though, it isn't. Transcendence is a turgid, lifeless
bore of a film that doesn't really offer anything insightful about its
subject matter because it's so single mindedly stupid about it. All the
parts about technology, philosophy and what it means to be human are
all thrown to the wayside, and the movie instead grounds most of its
logic on the relationship between two people like its the most
important thing in this world. In a movie where technology is used to
heal the sick, rebuild the forests and even cure death, all the movie
wants us to care about is how Rebecca Hall cannot possibly go on living
without her dead husband and how all that amazing wonderful
miracle-making doesn't mean anything.

I'm not even sure who the main character is supposed to be. Depp is in
the movie in the flesh only for about 15 minutes and after that he
disappears mostly into the background of scenes as a computer program
making it hard to relate to him. Hall acts so selfish, stupid and blunt
throughout that it's impossible to like her as an audience member. It
certainly isn't Paul Bettany either, he's a prisoner through most of
the film and when he's not, the things that are happening are more or
less out of his control.

Also the vagueness of the films antagonist is a real problem, we're led
to believe that Computerised-Depp is the main antagonist, but he's not
really, a computer operating by logic is hard to hate as a viewer,
because it's just doing what's in its own nature, and many of the
miracles its capable of are not, in and of themselves evil either
(since when was healing the blind considered unjust?). It certainly
isn't the Techno-Terrorist group R.I.F.T either, their motivations as
terrorists isn't even particularly clear other than "Technology is
Bad", Shooting Johnny Depp over a hypothesis seems more like stupidity
than martyrdom. Also during the films climax they become good guys. 

Johnny Depp was reportedly paid $20 million for his role in this movie,
and in my opinion he didn't earn his salary. He is stiff, lifeless,
bored (that's even before he gets uploaded into a computer) and
obviously uninterested in the finished product. Rebecca Hall is trying
very hard here, but the terrible writing of her character hamstring her
efforts. Paul Bettany is good here and is probably the films strongest
asset, but he's not in the film enough and pretty much useless by the
time the conclusion comes. Morgan Freeman and Cillian Murphy are just
there, they don't really have anything interesting to say or do. Kate
Mara gives by far the worst performance, the bad writing of her
character hurts her more than others, but she was impossible to buy as
the stern, serious leader of an organised terrorist group.

There's also a huge lack of understanding of rudimentary film making
skills at play. Wally Pfister is a gifted cinematographer and the film
does look good generally speaking, but working cinematography on a
movie and directing an entire movie are two completely different ball
games. Many aspects of film-making are botched here: Framing, Blocking,
Dynamics between Characters, Editing, Camera Movements but especially
Pacing. This is one of the worst Paced movies in quite some time,
nothing that happens in the story has any momentum, and this coupled
with the poor direction over everything else makes the whole movie
completely dull to watch (the biggest mistake is that film begins with
the ending, spoiling any and all tension during the movie).

I'm not saying that every movie needs to have an action scene either,
there isn't a car chase during 12 Angry Men, but Transcendence builds
to a huge final engagement and when it comes it's over with way too
quickly. 

It's a combination of many elements that could go wrong with a movie,
and it's easy to blame Wally Pfister for the poor direction, but I
think this movie represents a far bigger concern. Johnny Depp is
currently the highest paid actor in the world, but this and some of his
last films "The Lone Ranger" and "Dark Shadows" both had disappointing
box office takings, which leads me to believe that maybe Depp's day are
numbered, and/or perhaps we're entering a new age of movies where it
doesn't matter who you cast, a stinker's a stinker and people wont
flock to see garbage.
