
The Other Woman is a 2014 American romantic comedy film directed by
Nick Cassavetes and written by Melissa Stack. The film stars Cameron
Diaz, Leslie Mann, Kate Upton, Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau, Nicki Minaj and
Taylor Kinney.

The Movie Plot: After discovering her boyfriend Mark is married, Carly
tries to get her ruined life back on track. But when she accidentally
meets the wife he's been cheating on, Kate, she realizes they have much
in common, and her sworn enemy becomes her greatest friend. When yet
another affair, Amber, is discovered, all three women team up to plot
mutual revenge on the cheating, lying, three-timing Mark. Things get a
lot crazier when they discover that Mark isn't a three-timer he's a
four-timer

I really loved this film the women were deliciously cute and their
acting was amazing. I laughed a lot and honestly I was surprised that
this movie is rather excellent and has been under-rated. The movie
poster is simply perfect. Believe me this film is a masterpiece. See it
and you will spend the best of times and I guarantee you will quite
enjoy this film and you'll love these irresistible ladies.
<|_=00=_|>
I know there are lots of negative reviews (critics, I mean) about this
movie which made me unsure about going to see it. Basically what I can
say is that reviews can't tell you how you are going to experience this
movie- I found it hilarious. I came to a point where I couldn't breathe
as I was laughing so much- a nice bit of stress relief. I didn't find
that there were laughing moments the WHOLE way through- I don't know
why the critics didn't like this though- at least it's not just a
mindless comedy. It has a genuine plot line which is followed through-
a comedy with substance- it's not just one funny scenario after another
and this emphasises the hilarity of the funny moments that do come up.
Would definitely recommend it- left me buzzing after wards- can be
enjoyed by everyone. I found Leslie Mann was the shining star of the
movie- so was Cameron Diaz (slightly less so than Mann). Kate Upton, I
think contributed very little- don't know why she got the billing that
she did. Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau also stood out for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I love love love this movie! I figured that it would be fun to watch,
because you can't go wrong with Cameron Diaz and Leslie Mann as the
lead characters...but it exceeded my expectations by like 2-3 stars. My
boyfriend even caught himself belly-laughing out loud a handful of
times during this movie. It was just what I needed: a lighthearted,
feel-good comedy that ultimately becomes a story about female
friendship and self-empowerment. If you're a girl who's ever been
betrayed, felt insecure, down in the dumps, or felt like you've lost
the upper-hand in a relationship, go see this movie! It will pick you
up, dust you off, give you a pep talk, and remind you of how important
it is to have good girl friends that make you laugh and pick you up
when you're down. It might also make you paranoid that your perfectly
charming husband is having a secret affair... but try not to let it
have that effect on you. :)
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely LOVE this movie! I am stunned that people are rating it so
low. I found it very entertaining and was surprised at how much I
laughed. Just when I thought it had hit the funniest point and would
slow down it got funnier. All of the characters were perfectly
portrayed in my opinion.You have your lying sneaky guy who has a great
wife whose soul purpose in life is to support his career. The
girlfriend who just adores him is clueless he is married. Someone plans
a big surprise and the roller-coaster of hilarity begins. I won't give
away any of it but if you miss this one you are doing yourself a
disfavor!!! The antics the characters engulf themselves in are such a
riot. The scenery is great. Every situation so well planned out this
movie ..in my opinion..is simply flawless.

Keep your remote handy because you will laugh so hard you'll need to
rewind to catch something else that just happened it is DEFINITELY a
MUST SEE!
<|_=00=_|>
Do not listen to critic reviews they just down movies for attention .
This movie is hilarious, witty, and interesting. Seeing how the girls
bond will make you almost wish this was happening to you! I just
imagined all the fun they had and me in their place, it was an awesome
movie. I signed up just to review this movie if you don't read anything
I say just take this advice. Watch the movie yourself. Cameron Diaz,
Leslie Mann, and Kate Upton played their roles stupendously and each
had their own unique skill to bring into the sisterhood and none were
as dumb as one might think. I would rate this movie a 100 out of 10 if
I could I cried during the last 10 minutes just seeing how each life
was changed as a result.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea why this got such a low IMDb rating. Both my fiancé and
I loved this. The writing was clever, fresh, and hilarious. We couldn't
stop laughing and it wasn't the typical cheesy Hollywood humor. It was
very smart. It got a little cheesy toward the end as they were tying up
loose ends, but I would honestly watch this over and over again. I have
a masters in creative writing so I'm no easy audience. Honestly, what a
bummer that I almost passed it by as a result of the poor reviews! My
fiancé is also quite the critic and he was calling me every 15 minutes
or so, laughing, telling me about the last scene that he watched. It
was so good that we paid for it on Amazon Prime twice--once for me to
watch and again when I told him, "You HAVE to see this."
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit it. I went to this film expecting it to be a bigger flop
than KNIGHT AND DAY. But, man! Was I proved wrong.

Cameron Diaz is perfectly believable as the modern WSF yuppie who has
it all. Looks; brains; a high-paying job; and a sexy boyfriend (played
by Nikolas Waldau) she's been dating for two straight months. But, when
Waldau blows off meeting her father (the still-versatile Don Johnson,
now playing the same type of lovably lecherous old codger James Gammon
played in NASH BRIDGES), she goes to spy on him. Thinking he's simply
being commitment-phobic.

Imagine her surprise at meeting her boyfriend's cute-but-naïve
redheaded wife (played by Leslie Mann)! Followed by the two of them
meeting--and befriending--the buxom-yet-sensitive Kate Upton!

I won't spoil the rest of the film for you, except to say that Ms. Mann
practically steals the show with her character's ditziness.* And, Ms.
Diaz still looks as good in a bikini as Ms. Upton! The latter is not
just eye-candy, however. She's very articulate. And, Waldau is almost
_too_ believable as the unfaithful con artist they now love to hate.

Of course, I must confess that Ms. Diaz and Mr. Johnson are the only
two names I recognized in the opening cast credits. Ms. Upton, Ms.
Mann, and Mr. Waldau all being completely unknown to me! But, I sense
all that's going to change for these three in the very near future. So,
go see this film and suspend all disbelief. Because that's the best way
to shamelessly enjoy it...like I did.

* "It rhymes with 'schlintercourse.' " Lol!
<|_=00=_|>
I just recently saw "The Other Woman" and I found that the film was
funny and comedic at the same time. Cameron Diaz, Leslie Mann, and Kate
Upton have the perfect chemistry as a trio of women who all find that
they have been played by the same man with Mann's character Kate as his
wife and Diaz and Upton's characters as his mistresses. The scenes that
are completely hilarious are when Kate is putting estrogen pills in her
husband's smoothies while Carly has put laxative powder in his drink.
Taylor Kinney as Kate's brother Phil is so hot in this movie that any
girl or woman even would just swoon when he's on the screen. Nikki
Minaj may only be in a few scenes but she doesn't steal the show from
these veteran actresses. You will have a great laugh when you see this
movie because I know I did. Any woman who has ever been cheated on will
gladly root for the downfall of this cheater.
<|_=00=_|>
Leslie Mann is amazing! What a refreshingly wonderful actress! Her
comedic timing is perfect. I bet she just ad-libbed most of her scenes
and it was so mesmerizingly good. I would love to have girlfriends like
this. Nicki Minaj was excellent too. I enjoyed Cameron Diaz too. I just
loved the whole movie. It was perfect: no violence, no horror, no big
special effects, and nothing upsetting. I am not a movie snob, just a
regular girl who wants to see a entertaining movie that leaves me
feeling good afterward. This movie did that. If you want a
light-hearted comical romp where the girls prevail in the end-see this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is exactly what it advertises itself to be. At least that was
refreshing. It's completely mindless and almost every single character
is either extremely shallow or irritating and often both. 

As badly as this is written, somehow Leslie Mann makes it work for her
character. She manages to make the viewer actually care about her
somehow. She simply puts it all on the table and her boldness mixed
with her charm manages to rise above awful material. The rest of the
cast is, frankly, terrible. The cheating husband is such a dumb cartoon
character. Cameron Diaz has grown genuinely unpalatable. Kate Upton
tried her gorgeous best but it's clear even the director had to try and
cut around her acting shortcomings. I smell a few Razzie nominations
for this mess.
