
I'm a Muppets fan and really enjoyed the 2011 film, but I am very, very
disappointed with Muppets Most Wanted. This film is just an endless
string of clichés. Very rarely is it genuinely witty or surprising. The
script wrings all of the effect possible out of heist film tropes,
caricatures of non-Americans (stuff that probably would have been
HILARIOUS if this was 1964) and of course, the Muppet cast wearing
their well-worn roles.

Easier for me to summarize are the good points. Ty Burrell was born to
play a French Interpol detective in a Muppets film. Jemaine Clement
from Flight of the Conchords works great as a young-Topol-lookalike
Russian. And there are a few random gags here and there that hit home.
Oh, and two or maybe three of the songs are either weird or catchy
enough to be enjoyable.

But that's it. The plot is nothing great. The dialog lacks wit. Most of
the songs are simply dialog set to autopilot melodies. The premise
feels like it belongs in a decade of the past. "Kermit identity crisis"
and "Muppets heist-related film" have already sort of been done in The
Muppets Take Manhattan and The Great Muppet Caper, respectively. Not
exact equivalents, but close enough to make Muppets Most Wanted seem
like a lesser retread. I'm glad that the Muppets franchise has been re-
energized, but like Star Trek, I have a hard time feeling like it's
worth it unless they develop better stories for future installments.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read a few strangely critical reviews, I felt compelled to add
my own for balance. I am not going to compare this to this Muppet movie
or that. I already see too many people doing that.

Having grown up with the original Muppet Show and seeing every movie
and many TV specials, I have seen this bunch put together movies and
shows with varying success. 

The return to the big screen a few years ago was very welcome, and very
well done. With this movie, I think they topped that and quite a few
others! To me, as a lifelong fan, this easily ranks near the top of the
best Muppet movies made.

Once I heard the opening number to the movie, I knew I was in for a
treat. Every song in this movie was pure Muppet. Jim Henson always had
a way of celebrating the best we all have to offer with a twinkle in
his eye and a joke or two along the way. That spirit lives on in this
movie. Whether it's doo wop, cheesy 70s music, or just a fun musical
number, they cover a lot of ground.

The plot, as you may already be aware, involves some creative
switcharoo, which is played off very well. This leads to a number of
interesting scenes on both sides. 

The movie is paced very well, and does a good job of switching back and
forth between story lines. Just as you become reinvested in one, you're
switched back to the other. You will most likely see your favorite
Muppet at some point, although only a handful have significant parts. I
always enjoy the familiar faces in the background scenes.

The human/Muppet ratio was back where it should be. Any proper Muppet
movie should always star the muppets, with humans being "around". This
delivered that perfectly, but also picked the perfect co-stars. Ty
Burrell is fantastic, and his time with Sam the Eagle is wonderful, and
something I had been looking forward to. Of course Tina Fey is great as
well. She's Tina Fey!

There is a lot of well done will they or won't they at the end. You'll
have to see for yourself if they do or if they don't!

And finally, while the matinée I went to wasn't hugely attended, there
were a number of kids in the audience, and they all seemed to like the
movie very much, even clapping at the end. 

I personally enjoyed this movie quite a bit. I laughed A LOT. It's fun.
It's silly. It's somewhat absurd at times, and that's what the Muppets
are all about. And of course, they remind you how great it is to stick
together with your friends and family. And any movie that can get the
seal of approval from kids that includes clapping must be doing
something right!
<|_=00=_|>
So, I saw it last night... and as much as I enjoyed it, something
seemed missing. For a devoted fan like me, I believe the missing piece
was the emotional impact that many of the great Muppet movies have had.
Don't get me wrong, MMW was definitely fun, and I highly recommend it
to anyone with kids, to keep the legacy alive. There was plenty of
in-joke meta humor, sight-gags, visual puns (Christoph Waltz cameos as
himself, dancing the Waltz with a bear), like the last one (and so many
before that), which I love. There were references to previous movies
(including nice plot AND song callbacks to The Muppets Take Manhattan -
one of my favorite Muppet movies ever), and characters (Rizzo and
Kermit's nephew Robin get a fun moment). And maybe it's just because
the first movie of the Muppets reboot was SO damn good, and contained
such incredible levels of nostalgia, but for long-time fans like
myself, MMW didn't connect with me quite as well.

One big missing piece of the puzzle from the last movie, though, is
Jason Segel. Even though this was written by Nicholas Stoller, Segel's
writing partner in the first movie, the dialogue and the jokes
sometimes fell a little flat. Segel's obvious deep-seeded love and
fandom of the Muppets showed through in his script, and that same level
of love wasn't here. Plus, Segel as Gary in the first movie, just
brought a lot of on- screen fun with him. But of course, I understand
that the Muppets don't typically have any permanent human counterparts,
so if he had just continued writing on this one, I'd have been happy.

The songs were cute and fun, but nothing here nearly compares to the
last film's soundtrack. Nothing catchy enough to stay in my head, like
'Man or Muppet' or 'Life's a Happy Song' were. No emotional punch like
'Pictures in My Head' was. I'm afraid that Bret McKenzie will not
likely be able to continue his streak of Best Song Oscars. One of the
more fun musical highlights, though, was Constantine's (the villain -
who was just basically Kermit with a mole and ... a frog in his throat
*rimshot*) off-handed seduction of Miss Piggy in one of his (THREE!)
songs, "I'll Get You What You Want".

The human co-stars of the movie were Ty Burrell (Modern Family), Tina
Fey and Ricky Gervais. All three shine in their scenes, and all seem to
be up for all the fun of your typical Muppet movie, but Fey really
stood out in her song "In The Gulag". She plays an over-the-top
stereotypical Russian guard, keeping Kermit under lock and key for
being mistaken for Constantine (the World's Most Dangerous Frog!),
complete with Kermit, at one point, wearing a "Hogan's Heroes"-style
hat. The rest of the human cameos were really fun, too. Hobo Joe
re-cameos in this one, a carryover from the first movie. There's a cute
surprise cameo at the end of the movie. The other standout amongst the
cameos for me was Danny Trejo, who at one point, late in the film, you
realize is playing... Danny Trejo, the Russian gulag prisoner, which I
found to be immensely hilarious. A lot of the cameos are 'blink and
you'll miss 'em', though. So the movie does have some rewatchability
value for me, at some point.

The last thing I'll point out here is that there seemed to be a lot of
Muppet cameos as well. MANY different older generation Muppets show up
as background characters, so it was fun to play 'Spot the Familiar
Muppet' throughout the film. My favorite was the Muppet Newsman, who
unfortunately, had nothing bad happen to him.

So overall, I think the Muppet legacy has a great chance at continuing
their legacy, and I think the last movie gained a lot of new young fans
of the franchise, who will all enjoy this one immensely (since kids
don't really have the same sort of emotional attachment to the Muppets
that I might). I enjoyed the movie greatly for what it was, but am
slightly disappointed in the movie for what I thought it could be. I
look forward to the next movie, and may actually go back and give this
one another chance, to see if maybe I misjudged it the first time
around. Sometimes Muppet movies are like that... they take a second
viewing to really appreciate the more subtle humor elements, catch some
of the sight gags you might have missed the first time around, etc.

If any of you were planning to go this weekend, please don't be swayed
by my review here to convince you otherwise. Go see it! And please come
back and tell me how wrong I am. I'd love that, more than anything.
<|_=00=_|>
In the opening musical number of the Film they admitted it wouldn't be
as good as the first Film....

With a very basic plot and loads of cameos the film could have been
good, but instead it was far too long to hold my family's attention.
Ricky Gervais wasn't believable as a proper baddie in the true
over-the-top-obvious Muppet fashion and his performance together with
the length of the film (at almost 2 hours) made for an uncomfortable
time...some families actually left the cinema before the end. The few
laughs were few and far between...so in conclusion unless you are as
besotted with the Muppets as Tina Fey's character was I'd save your
money for something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Thank God for Dr. Bunsen Honeydew, a scientist anal enough to remember,
through the opening MUPPETS MOST WANTED song about the idea of making a
sequel, that in fact there are now seven films including their first
motion picture, THE MUPPET MOVIE, created under the brilliant, watchful
eyes of the late creator Jim Henson So it's good to know someone else
remembers the Muppets aren't a new concept 

The 1978 original was a road trip introduction to the eclectic gang,
and they wound up making a movie at the end of that particular story...
This was followed by THE GREAT MUPPET CAPER, a mystery spoof taking
place in England And in 2011, the MUPPETS reboot had the gang
traveling to Los Angeles to put on a stage show and now, like CAPER,
they're traipsing throughout Europe, also spoofing the crime genre:
this time with a surreptitiously nefarious bad guy actually named Bad
Guy, played by Ricky Gervais, but the real villain is Kermit himself
Well not exactly

The main plot has Bad Guy teaming with an escaped Russian frog,
Constantine, almost identical to Kermit, who winds up putting a fake
facial mole on the lovable croaker and then covering his own so that
Kermit is falsely accused and sent to the same Siberian Gulag that
Constantine escaped from... Meanwhile, the Muppets are being led by
this awkward impostor, who winds up wooing Miss Piggy into marriage,
and somehow their stage plays, despite misdirection and unstructured
skits, are selling out everywhere 

The real shock is with so many cooks in the kitchen, nothing really
gets accomplished And while the Muppets are known for their songs,
turning each movie into an adventurous musical, the tunes here seem
more like distractions from lack of plot than singing-dialogue to carry
the story, which worked especially good in THE MUPPET MOVIE Does the
tune "Moving Right Along" ring a bell? Well in fact those songs did
move things along But now the numbers, all uncatchy and completely
forgettable, feel intrusive and downright annoying. 

For nostalgic Muppet fans, the limited screen time of classic
characters such as Gonzo, Beaker, Swedish Chef and just about everyone
except Kermit, Fozzy, Piggy and Animal, is annoying and unforgivable
But worse yet is that Jason Segal, who starred in the original reboot
and doesn't show up at all, has left behind his awful human Muppet
brother Walter, a weak replacement for Scooter, who, like just about
everyone else including that funky rock band, are merely wallpaper. 

The famous co-stars besides Gervais include Tina Fey as the Gulag head
guard and Ty Burrell as a European detective, the latter joining Sam
the Eagle. These humans try really hard but there's not enough story
for them to matter. And the cameos range from Ray Liotta and Danny
Trejo as Russian inmates and a mixed bag other celebs thrown in for
good, or in this case, pointlessly boring measure.

But the real crime is that Kermit doesn't sound anything like himself
at all, and that's not only when he's being purposely imitated by the
villain... providing two bad impersonations in a single motion picture:
We sure miss you, Jim!
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Henson's successors have tried for years to re-capture the magic of
the original Muppet Movie, The Great Muppet Caper, and Muppets Take
Manhattan and have failed to take us to that special land of
wonderment.

2011's "The Muppets" tried hard (maybe too hard) but stumbled out the
gate by making us sit through unbearable musical numbers such as Texas
Richman's rap and Amy Adams' "Me Party." It's plot also focused on a
new Muppet, Walter, as well his human brother Jason Segel and his
girlfriend Amy Adams rather than center around the original Muppet cast
that we love so dear.

The creators of Muppets Most Wanted understood these shortcomings and
comically pointed them out. I'm not saying that Muppets Most Wanted is
as good as the original three, or date say better. But it is as close
to Muppet-Greatness as we've been since Jim Henson's passing.

The writers found that perfect balance between silly and witty. The
plot centered around the beloved original characters, while introducing
a hilarious new villain. The musical numbers had that uplifting,
old-school feel and never induced cringing.

We finally have a post-Henson Muppet Movie that will stand the test of
time. Rejoice!
<|_=00=_|>
When I reviewed "The Muppets" (2011) upon its release, I was ecstatic
about it. I loved the story, the songs, and everything the Muppets
themselves did in the movie.

Most people who saw "The Muppets" who were not Muppet fans before
seeing it enjoyed the film. Muppet fans themselves, in addition to
loving the movie, could sense the heart and passion the filmmakers put
into every aspect, and felt no doubt everyone involved in making "The
Muppets" were Muppet fans themselves.

"Muppets Most Wanted" is the 8th Muppet movie, but the first one that
is technically a sequel because it acknowledges the events that took
place in its immediate predecessor. Many of those involved in "The
Muppets" return in this sequel, including director and co-writer James
Bobin, co-writer Nicholas Stoller, songwriter (and Oscar-winner) Bret
McKenzie, and all the Muppets including newcomer Walter . . . but
something was missing.

As I watched the film, I could see all the Muppets were there, and it
seemed like they were trying to perform "The Muppet Show" as well as
they did in their previous film. There was a coherent story about a
criminal mastermind who happened to look identical to Kermit the Frog,
and exploits this coincidence to help him escape from prison.

I wanted this movie to make me laugh. I want to tell everyone that the
Muppets are cool and funny again like I did back when I saw "The
Muppets" . . . but I can't.

The problem may have had to do with the story, or at least the
motivations of antagonist and Kermit-lookalike Constantine. With his
partner in crime Dominic Badguy (pronounced BA-jee, & played by Ricky
Gervais), he uses the Muppets' world tour as a front to rob European
museums of their precious diamonds.

"The Great Muppet Caper" had a similar plot, but that movie was more
clever because virtually all the Muppets in that movie parodied how
overdone such a plot was. This movie doesn't even want to acknowledge
the banality of that hackneyed plot line, or even consider why any
modern audience would care about a jewel heist.

Also, whereas the songs were a major strength in "The Muppets", the
song "We're Doing A Sequel" is the only one worth remembering. It's a
promising, tongue-in-cheek song that acknowledges the stigma and
symptoms of sequelitis, only to allow the whole film to fall victim to
its own diagnosis.

Many of the other songs are surprisingly mundane, considering McKenzie
wrote far more brilliant songs for "The Muppets". For example, the song
"I'll Get What You Want (Cockatoo In Malibu)" has lyrics that include
"I can give you anything you want/Give you anything you need/I'll make
your dreams come true/Give you anything you want".

You're waiting for a funny line, but McKenzie, for the first time in
his songwriting career, never delivers one. Considering the hilarious,
genre-bashing songs he made famous with Flight Of The Conchords, it
feels as if he didn't even try.

Last but not least, everything "The Muppets" did right with celebrity
cameos, "Muppets Most Wanted" did wrong. You see Christoph Waltz
dancing the waltz, Salma Hayek getting on and off stage, Danny Trejo in
prison, and Celine Dion just singing.

You don't see Gonzo doing a crazy stunt (you only hear him talking
about it), Fozzie Bear telling a joke, or most of the Muppets doing
what they do best. Even Lew Zealand forgets to throw a fish.

Of the human stars who actually have relevant roles, Tina Fey and Ty
Burrell actually look like they're having fun. Ricky Gervais is
surprisingly dull, being both unfunny enough to stand alongside the
Muppets, and not menacing enough to be a villain.

The Muppets are the stars of this movie, not the humans. Somewhere in
the making of this movie, the filmmakers left their love of the
Muppets, and their desire to make them intriguing characters, by the
door, and it shows by what you don't see the Muppets do.

"Muppets Most Wanted" has some laughs, but they are more like light
chuckles with no feelings of joy or poignancy. The Muppets have already
proved they can make a comeback, but this is not the movie that proves
their staying power.

"Muppets Most Wanted" is by no means a terrible movie, but I hope the
Muppets prove their worth in their next movie. I hope there is a next
movie.

One last note: The Walt Disney Company has not yet released "The Muppet
Show" Seasons 4 & 5 on DVD in addition to many other long-unavailable
Muppet TV specials (e.g. "A Muppet Family Christmas" (1987)), yet has
purchased Marvel Comics and the Star Wars franchise. Maybe the problem
lies with Disney not caring enough about the Muppets.
<|_=00=_|>
The Muppets find themselves wrapped into an European heist caper headed
by a Kermit the Frog look-alike and his sidekick Number Two.

The last film put the Muppet's back on the the map, director/writer
James Bobin and writer Nicholas Stoller corrects Bobin's own previous
instalments niggles, gone is the focus on a new Muppet character and
less focus on (real) human actors, here there's more Muppets, more
songs, comedy and action. 

Packed with one-liners gags and with the obligatory cross section of
famous cameos including Tony Bennett, Lady Gaga, Celine Dion, Frank
Langella and Ray Liotta to name a few there's all you'd expect from a
Muppets musical comedy caper. This offering even excels it predecessor
and brings the Muppet's even more to life with some CGI (footwork) but
without taking away any of the puppet characteristics of the Muppets
we've grown to love along side the human leads Ricky Gervais, Ty
Burrell and Tina Fey who are on fine form. 

This is another proper big budget outing set in the 'real' world and
not cheap TV movie nor is it based on a classic story. Most Wanted is a
fine return to form and sits well with the classic Muppet capers.
Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The Muppets of 2011 was a surprise, it is one of the rare throwbacks
that excellently lives up to the material which brings nostalgia to the
old fans and potentially earns new ones from the current generation.
That little film gives us faith to their upcoming films, and here it
is, the latest sequel that once again delivers the same delight and
enthusiasm. This quality is always a welcome, however the storyline
doesn't seem to offer anything new or say anything important. But none
of it will ever matter in the end, Muppets Most Wanted is quite
entertaining because that is what this material is always best at.

This edition tries to be like any blockbuster today by pulling off a
bombastic and thrilling tone since it involves criminal schemes and
exciting mysteries, but these aren't the most interesting parts the
film has. Many can immediately notice it suffers finding fresher ideas
for the main plot, but those aren't exactly what we care for. It's
really about being loyal to their thing: absurd humor, shining talents,
and best of all, singing. The attempt of heightening things up is
probably for the film to fit in to this epic sized era of cinema. But
the truth is the plot is really not as special as the quirks, the most
memorable parts that end up to the storyline are either the Muppets'
amusing naivety from Constantine's disguise as Kermit or the two
agents' ridiculous arguments about the size of their badges.

While the classic stuff are kept, the only thing that was elevated is
the songs. Bret McKenzie gives the same joy of the last movie, the beat
goes from groovy to Broadway. Every musical set piece is just
wonderfully enjoyable. The craft is nothing to talk about since they're
always neat, and the voices too have always been full of life. The
celebrity cast seems like they're having a good time: Ricky Gervais is
kind of just doing his own thing. Ty Burrell seems to be parodying
Inspector Clouseau and it's quite fun, he has a delightful chemistry
with his Muppet partner, Sam the Eagle. People might only notice the
accent in Tina Fey, but she still made the character likable anyway.

Muppets Most Wanted has the feeling for a TV Special worth or
something, because definitely there is hardly anything grand about the
film other than the spectacles, but it's really hard to say anything
bad to the Muppets since the spirit of the show is still there. Its
significance is just too little compared to the last movie since that
one had a message why this show is so special. This sequel only exists
probably just to fit in, but then again it's still a very fun time at
the movies. New and old fans can appreciate every bit of it, because
nothing can entertain you like this than the Muppets.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a die hard Muppet fan since infancy (and I have the photos
to prove it), so I was excited to see this film. I left in a mix of
emotions: disappointment, annoyance, and just plain sadness. I was so
let down by this picture. It has none of the charm one comes to expect
from the Muppets, and I chalk it up to poor writing. In the previous
film ("The Muppets"), you can tell by the writing that Jason Segal knew
who he was writing for and captured the charm. I have to wonder, as the
co-writer from he aforementioned film also co-wrote "Muppets Most
Wanted," if the less than stellar gags (Fart shoes? Really?) were the
ideas of the co-writer. Muppets have an almost high-brow humor, the
original show was on prime time for adults! Even Henson's kid shows did
not contain cheap humor like what we saw in Muppets Most Wanted.

Now, before I go into full-on rant mode, I will list what I did enjoy
from the movie: -The team of Sam Eagle and Ty Burrell. You can tell
they had fun together, and they stole every scene they were in. -Josh
Groban being the maximum security prisoner. I thought I had recognized
that voice, and the idea of him being a maximum security sort is just
funny, no matter how you look at it. -The Opening Number ("We're Making
a Sequel") I liked the homage to "The Great Muppet Caper"'s "We're
Making a Movie." The only other song I enjoyed was the "I Hope I Get
It" number. -Whenever Walter was on screen. He still had the charm and
sparkle I expected from the Muppets. Sorry Walter, but even your spark
is going out. -Tom Hiddleston as the Great Escapo.

That's really it. My mother and I did not recognize many of the cameos,
so that was lost. The characters felt like they were reading words on a
page, as a friend so aptly put it, and the Muppeteers did not sound as
though their hearts were in it. There was way too much Constantine.
Kermit is the glue that holds the group together, and to have them not
even be that suspicious was not convincing.

I wanted the feeling I got from the earlier projects, and even from the
earlier Films from after Jim Henson's passing ("Muppet Christmas
Carol," specifically) or "The Muppets." It didn't deliver. I would
compare this to "Muppet Wizard of Oz" or "Letters to Santa."

Come on, Muppets, you need your mojo back.

Maybe Disney will get enough money from this picture to at least
release seasons 4 and 5 of "The Muppet Show." Show the new generation
what our favorite puppets are supposed to be like. That's good
television, right there. He best episodes are in those seasons!
