
Responding to the overtly religious criticism/ This movie was about a
team that won 150 games in a row. It was based on real life coaching.
(This was not a made up part of the story but intrinsic to the coach's
point of view).

To leave family/faith values out of the movie would have been like
telling the story of a journey without any information about how the
characters were able to get from point A to point B when no one else in
history had ever done so.

Nevertheless the movie wasn't just about the overall journey, but also
included the individual stories of the coach and black and white
students facing their own challenges.

The many football scenes through-out the movie were great fun to watch!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a screening and was going with the idea of yeah OK
ill go see it... its free. Wow... I was pleasantly surprised with this
un-promoted film. I feel this didn't get enough TV ad time as it should
have as I fell that this is one of the best football films made. It
will make any fan and any family member of a player appreciate the game
that much more. It goes to show what the teens really go through to be
the best in the game and how the loss effects the team and how they
need to get over the loss and move on. With todays society and the "no
one looses" "participation trophys" this film is a must. Show the
character effects of how people need to LOOSE and over come it versus
no everyone wins. Pretty close film to "undefeated" but better.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, based on real life events, does a wonderful job of
portraying the power and beauty of the human spirit. The movie allows
you escape all of the negative aspects of professional sports and
big-time collegiate athletics and reminds us of the truly positive
effects of sport when taught in the proper perspective. 

The movie also demonstrates the ever ending struggle between good and
evil forces in our world and teaches us to fight through life even
during some of its most challenging moments. A beautiful demonstration
of American spirit and reinforces the strength of our nation and its
values. This movie is about life and is much greater than just a high
school football team.
<|_=00=_|>
When the Game Stands Tall is about a football team and includes a lot
of football footage, but it is not a football movie. Rather, it is an
inspirational movie about life, commitment, and the definition of
success. In this manner, it succeeds wildly.

The story would seem predictable: a team achieves 151 wins in a row
through incredible talent and maniacal enthusiasm for football.
Instead, When the Game Stands Tall dismisses the importance of "The
Streak" and focuses on the process and commitment by which it was
built. Almost preachy at times, the movie can be forgiven because it
captures the true story. Caviezel's depiction of Coach Bob Ladouceur as
quiet, humble, and overly-focused is spot-on. Its illustration of the
team's "commitment cards" should be seen as a revelation for every
other football team, rather than a sappy distraction. The death of
Terrance Kelly was shocking and senseless. And DLS players actually do
hold hands as they enter the field and graduate spouting words like
"brotherhood" and "love".

When the Game Stands Tall is clearly intended as a message movie in a
football setting, and it succeeds on both fronts. "Family-appropriate",
it makes for enjoyable and worthwhile viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I had an awesome opportunity to see this film tonight. I, for one,
enjoy football movies and enjoy the different stories around the sport
that directors have brought out over the years. When the Game Stands
Tall is a very nice new addition to my favorite football films.

The De La Salle High School Spartans are coached by Bob Ladouceur (Jim
Caviezel). He has led the Spartans to a 150 game winning streak, which
is the longest in all of football, even more than any team in the NFL
or NCAA. The beginning shows us an intertwining of win #151 with a team
meeting the day before the game. The meeting shows us how together and
united the seniors are while the game shows how hard working and
dedicated they are during each play from snap to whistle. In that game,
the juniors get to finish the game and we get to know who some of these
guys are, particularly Chris Ryan (Alexander Ludwig), Danny Ladouceur
(Matthew Daddario), and Tayshon Lanear (Jessie Usher). After that, the
pressure is on to continue the winning streak and pick up where the
graduating seniors left off.

Throughout the film, we see the Spartans face many adversities on and
off the field. What I really liked in this story and script is how we
see this team overcome their adversities and dealing with family,
unity, and looking out for each other. This script Scott Marshall Smith
and David Zelon is nice held together by director Thomas Carter, who
does a nice job with the football sequences and the non-football
scenes.

At the front and center of this film is Jim Caviezel as Coach Bob
Ladouceur. With this role, we see Caviezel do so well as the coach, who
knows the right thing to say, and doesn't act a lot like other coaches.
Through Caviezel, we see a guy who has more of a calming influence and
does what is best for his players. The next standout is Alexander
Ludwig as Chris Ryan, a running back and linebacker who plays very hard
and is always under pressure from his overbearing father (Clancy
Brown). Brown is very interesting as the father who puts pressure on
his son who is on the verge of breaking California's high school record
for touchdowns. Laura Dern is nice in her role as the coach's wife.
Michael Chiklis is also very good in his role as assistant coach Terry
Eidson. In Chiklis, we see the kind of coach who does the job of
getting guys fired up.

The film has all the makings to be a great one centered around high
school football, and it certainly is a great one. This is easily one of
my favorite football films out there.
<|_=00=_|>
As I watched this movie, I developed and steadily growing dislike for
both the coach and the team. There is a scene late in the movie with a
kid who had spent three years on the bench and had never played in a
single game. Earlier scenes showed that the team won every game in
previous seasons by six or more touchdowns, and that star players
played both offense and defense. What kind of crappy coach and crappy
team never puts the second string in, even when they are leading by 40
points? The muddled point of the movie seemed to be that winning wasn't
the most important part of playing the game. For me, this scene blew
that ideal out of the water. For this team and this coach, the point
wasn't just winning, but winning by huge margins, to the detriment of
the players who weren't superstars.
<|_=00=_|>
As a member of team who previewed the movie, I have seen this 6 times
and customarily, I HATE to see movies over and over but this is a GREAT
movie. I am also not a huge football fan. This movie has a great
message about family, character and why one should do anything they
enjoy...win is great but it's more than that. This says a great deal
about the character of the coach, his staff, his family and HIS
players. I will have to read the book now. There is everything from
elation to heartbreak; you will find yourself dancing and you may shed
a tear. I enjoyed NOT having to cringe through nudity, bullets, and
f-bombs.

I recommend EVERYONE go see this. It's a great family film and it has
something for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
When the Game Stands Tall is about coach Bob Ladouceur and his values.
Bob Ladouceur turned down bigger offers to coach high school and build
people. The movie has religious values about the measures we give is
the measures we receive. Team over individuals, depending on each
other, commitment, and selflessness over selfishness. One experiences
the unfairness and trials of life, and the dealing with adversity. I
keep seeing in substories Good over evil, and light over darkness. The
most low point in a bad year and the movie is over come by giving at a
V A hospital. A strong script, and inspiring story. The directing and
acting excelled. One experiences the intelligence/strategy, heat, pain
and pressure during the football action. The distractions and
frustration off the field blend into the field action excellently. How
the team deals with the adversity not only make the team winners, but
builds productive people. The ending scene is inspirational. I give
What the Game Stands Tall and eight out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I review the movie proper, let me just mention how pleasantly
surprised my movie theatre-working friend was in seeing LSU football
coach Les Miles as an audience member in the beginning of the movie
with lines, to boot! I wasn't as surprised since I knew about it having
read about his appearance in last Friday's review-by John Wirt-in the
Red section of our town paper, The Advocate. All right, we both loved
the various plays as depicted on screen of the games and were touched
by many of the dramatic scenes of many of the teammates outside of the
game. Oh, and the filmmakers did a good job of disguising New Orleans
as a California town, too. I really don't have anything else to say
except I recommend When the Game Stands Tall.
<|_=00=_|>
Sports movies, a compromise of two great pastimes rolled into one
blockbuster smash hit. We've had a variety of movies about the various
sports from hockey to baseball, however the popular trend in the modern
age seems to be football. Why football seems to be the sport where all
miracles happen I don't know, but nevertheless this weekend adds
another work to the ever-growing library. My final review to close the
weekend out is on When the Game Stands Tall. What does this movie have
in store for you? Read on to find out. 

We know the general formula for a team-based film: team gets built;
they start looking good, hit a few obstacles, and come back stronger
than ever. This movie is no different in the grand scheme of things,
but changes the order slightly to give a little deviation from the
norm. At the beginning we get introduced into the legendary De La Salle
football team, a high school sports program that goes on a 151 win
streak via live footage. From there we meet a few key players in the
story, as the passing of the rights as well as the fundamental morals
on which the program is built on are told. After that it becomes the
familiar drama that seems to accompany this movie, though in this case
it is about the Streak. The cultural shock rips away their pride,
taking its toll on every member of the team that, when combined with a
few other incidents revealed in the trailers, creates the "story". It's
predictable, and lacks originality, as most football movies are, yet
somehow the movie is still entertaining. This may be partly due to the
simplistic comedy in the movie. A few of the players have some choice
lines that are well timed to maximize their humor. There are also a few
comical scenes as well, both in training and on game footage that gave
me a few chuckles. 

However, the story is not really the powerful part of the movie here,
but more so the morals within it. The legendary coach Bob Ladouceur
(Jim Caviezel) has a great approach to many of life's lessons and
struggles. Almost every line contains some teaching about finding
yourself, understanding the true qualities to appreciate in the given
circumstances. Fame, fortune, a winning streak are all addressed by
this man and his staff as they try to drive home honest morals into the
players. Yet the coach isn't some holier than thou man, no he has some
lessons to learn on his own as well and goes through the journey with
his team. But the morals aren't just loaded into one man's dialogue,
but also in the presentation of numerous scenes. From the combination
of music and visuals, the audience will feel the full emotional force
of the scene at hand. I found myself getting goose bumps during some of
the more inspirational moments, a tribute to the strength movie magic
can have. I have to admit that much of this movie is preachy and done
in the manner to bring you into the locker room. However it got stale,
and loss the shine it held at the beginning of the film, proving once
again overuse of any movie aspect can lose effect. 

As for the game scenes, they too are some of the better sequences I've
experienced in a long time. Unlike other movies, where one gets
glimpses of the game, When the game stands tall manages to create some
decent games that are filled with action and flare. Again, music helps
bring you into the moment, the symphony from the orchestra psyching you
up and filling you with energy. What is even better for me in this film
is that this game wasn't just glorifying the main team, but actually
showed their failings too. That's right we get to see other teams
scores in some well coordinated plays to give you a true game, and not
a one sided blitz. Overall, these scenes are also dolled up with a lot
of movie flare and zest, but it does add more entertainment to break
away from the distraught in the drama. That isn't to say there isn't
drama in the game itself, but it has a different twist to keep things
interesting and balanced. 

When the game stands tall is a decent sports film, still filled with
the movie magic flare that Hollywood pumps into it. Those who lack
emotion will be bored and find most of the movie cheesy and rather
bland. While I didn't mention the acting, due to the numerous
characters, the cast in this film did a great job bringing the team to
life, in particular Caviezel who stole most of the show. The biggest
audience I can recommend coming to see this film are sports
enthusiasts, those who love Remember the Titans, and drama lovers who
actually enjoy embracing their emotions. This is a movie filled to the
brim with pride, and should be a good fix for those awaiting the next
sports masterpiece. However, I would recommend waiting for the movie to
come out on DVD/Netflix ,because you can get longer games for
practically free on your entertainment console, though I can't
guarantee as much excitement. My scores for When The Game Stands Tall
are:

Drama/Sport: 7.5-8 Movie Overall: 7.0
