
I think that a lot of the criticism of "The Canyons" is missing the
point. All of Ellis' stories have a detached quality in them which
makes them hard for audiences to relate to, especially on screen. They
seem "unreal".

A constant theme in Ellis' work is the existential "ennui", the boredom
and emptiness of life, the absence of deeper meaning. His main
characters feel that something is missing, but they can't pinpoint what
it is. As an audience, we know what they are missing - connection with
themselves and others, and genuine emotion. This is why there is so
much disconnect between the protagonists and the viewers.

It may be that the choice of Hollywood as a backdrop for this display
of existential emptiness is an unlucky one because few people can
relate to wealthy Hollywood life on a personal level.

However, I applaud the filmmakers for at least having the guts to try.
The people in this movie are all choosing materialism over personal
connection, and mechanical sex instead of intimacy, an orgasm is for
them a reflex just like sneezing. Neither money, sex, nor social status
provide happiness for those who get it in abundance; only those who
don't have it in abundance think they will bring happiness. The values
that popular culture upholds are devoid of value.

In addition, I think James Deen does a perfect job playing a
narcissistic, controlling, emotionally empty vessel on the verge of
snapping, and Lindsay Lohan (this is her first movie I've seen, and
given the bad press, I'm positively surprised) does a great job playing
a woman despairing from choosing hell in physical luxury, while
starving emotionally.
<|_=00=_|>
This film suffers heavily from a distinct lack of sexiness and way too
much boring dialogue. And that is just the beginning of the problems.
You really know a film is bad when Lindsay Lohan is the only bright
light in it! 

The Acting: Lindsay Lohan does quite a good job in a couple of scenes
involving emotion, though she is much less effective in the (too
abundant) dialogue heavy scenes. James Deen shows a few flashes of
talent but mainly seems as if he is trying to emulate a method actor
with no real understanding of how to actually pull it off. The other
"performances" are uniformly bad to less-bad.

The Writing: One word... Awful. Boring dialogue and unbelievable story.
Poor ending. I think Bret Easton Ellis is a one-trick pony. He has
never managed to equal what he achieved with American Psycho.

The Directing: Same word as above... Awful. Paul Schraeder really
should sink back into obscurity. This project is definitely not going
to help his career. Poor choice of camera angles and poor framing
abounds. He shows no sign of his earlier talents. I think he is lost in
his own imagined "genius" as he tries for a gritty realism and gets
ugly pretentiousness.

Camera, Lighting, etc.: Poor lighting in almost every indoor scene. It
looks like it was shot on a smart phone. The music is irritating.
Wardrobe... What wardrobe? It looks like the actors supplied the
clothes they wanted to wear. There is no costume design or set design
in evidence here.

Sexiness: Basically there is none. Lindsay Lohan looks pretty sad with
her prominent beer belly, sagging breasts and 1960s style lingerie.
Control-top granny panties are not lust-inducing! The sex scenes are
boring and much less spicy than the hype suggested. The "orgy" was so
badly filmed it and lit that it was impossible to find it sexy or even
interesting. Women or those with a gay interest may find it more
sexually appealing but I don't find dangling limp penises to be
anything but silly looking. The entertainment media painted this as
shockingly graphic but it is pretty tame compared to cable shows like
True Blood if you discount the number of penises on view.

In Conclusion: Not really worth a look even if you just want to see
Lindsay Lohan in the buff. There was more of her on view in Playboy and
her body looked at least a bit better in the magazine. If you are
looking for titillating sex scenes you would be better off with
Skinemax. If you want to see a dramatic expose of Hollywood's dark
underbelly look elsewhere. In fact just look elsewhere. Period.
<|_=00=_|>
Horrible horrible movie. To start with the story is far from original
and the pathetic writing doesn't really add much to it. For the 1st 40
minutes or so you kind of feel like you're watching a bad B-movie,
after which it turns into a bad urban suspense thriller, most of which
will either make you roll your eyes or just laugh. The acting is
pathetic, I'm pretty sure school kids could act better than this, but
then again it's not like they had a lot to work with as I've already
stated, but I feel distinctly sure that even if they did, they'd still
be horrible. The directing is amateurish, trying desperately to make
the movie seem "arty" but failing. A lot of the stuff didn't even make
scene, like counting the days (Monday-Wednesday), why were we doing
that again? How exactly did that fit in with anything else? Well that's
about it for my review, just one more thing I'd like to mention is the
horrible soundtrack which makes you feel like you're in a sleazy strip
club. In short, don't watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been waiting to see this film for some time, and was finally just
able to see it on VOD. Unfortunately, it was a disappointment,
especially considering Paul Schrader directed it. The combination of he
and Bret Easton Ellis is not a good one. The film is yet another saga
of bored Hollywood individuals looking for meaning in life - pretty
much the common theme of BEE's novels - and indulging in sex, mind
games and jealousy while attempting to hold on to their flailing,
angst-filled existences. Mr. Schrader drives the point home further by
occasionally interspersing shots of dilapidated, closed movie theaters
to show us how the "old Hollywood" has decayed. "The Canyons" attempts
very hard to shock, but unfortunately, we've seen it all before, as
Hollywood has been making these caricatures of itself since the 70's
and 80's. Lindsay Lohan is surprisingly effective in her role most of
the time, and carries a lot of the film. James Deen, who I was not
familiar with as I'm not that into porn, also does a believable job
(and illustrates WHY he's had a career in porn during his full frontal
shot). There's also a refreshing twist during a four-way sex scene. But
I was left wondering at the end of the film - and it ends very
awkwardly - what was the point, and how could anyone invest much
empathy in these characters? I understand "The Canyons" opens today in
Los Angeles and New York, as well as being simultaneously offered on
television and Itunes via pay-per-view. I would be very surprised if
this gets any further than those two major cities; it's just not
engrossing or original enough to draw in much of an audience.
<|_=00=_|>
The Canyons (2013)

1/2 (out of 4) 

Paul Schrader's latest deals with the rich Christian (James Deen) who's
living in Los Angeles and seems to have it all until he learns that his
girlfriend/sex partner (Lindsay Lohan) is having an affair with a man
(Nolan Gerard Funk) who he hired in his latest movie. THE CANYONS is
without question the greatest WTF movie in the history of cinema or at
least to date. I say this because there was never a single second
during this film where I understood what was going on or what director
Schrader or screenwriter Bret Easton Ellis were trying to say or do.
This film is without question a complete and utter mess and for the
life of me I can't understand what the point of it was unless the only
goal was to make it as cheap as they could and hope that the Lohan nude
scenes would gain enough interest to make some money. Both Schrader and
Ellis are so incredibly talented that it would be easy to make fun of
this picture but I personally found it rather sad as neither man has
found themselves involved with something this bad before and worse of
all is the fact that the film makes no sense. It's meant to be some
sort of twisted erotic thriller but there isn't a single thrill and the
sex scenes aren't nearly as shocking as it appears the filmmakers think
they are. Had this been made twenty-years ago then it might have been
considered shocking but in today's day and age everything just comes
across as pretty lame. Deen is fair in his first non-porn role but he
certainly doesn't show enough here to warrant any future movies. The
supporting players are all either bland or downright horrid and often
times it seems like we're watching line rehearsals instead of an actual
take. As for Lohan, well, sadly she once again is pretty bad. She just
doesn't have any emotional depth here and even during her nude scenes
she just looks incredibly uncomfortable and especially during a shower
sequence. I'm sure this nudity is what's going to make most people
check this thing out but it's really not worth it. The film also
features a bad music score, some forgettable cinematography and worse
of all is how deadly boring it is from start to finish. The dialogue is
downright laughable and the overall feel is something cheaper and worse
than what you'd expect to see on Cinemax at three in the morning. I
guess the best thing I can say is that it's actually the best of the
three movies Lohan has released in 2013.
<|_=00=_|>
"We're all actors, aren't we?" 

I really, really, really did not expect porn star James Deen to be
anything more than a wooden embarrassment in his grown-up movie debut,
but I was happy to find that both he and fellow 'adult entertainer'
Danny Wylde were just fine, easily as good as the rest of the
'professional' cast and notably more comfortable in front of the camera
than Lindsay Lohan, who - though the biggest name in it - is probably
the weakest link in the film. Looking as worn out and over-the-hill as
she does, it doesn't help that all the characters continually keep
saying how she's the hottest girl they've ever seen.

This is a real movie, and one which fits in perfectly with the
cinematic worlds both Ellis and Schrader have created before, such as
The Informers, Rules Of Attraction, Hardcore and Auto Focus. And it's
an OK movie, too - not great but certainly as good as the majority of
other small-scale independent films out there. It has a genuine
presence and power and things to say about the iphone age, the
shallowness of modern relationships, and the lies we all tell one
another. I loved all the shots of the closed-down, boarded-up movie
houses, and some of the brooding camera-work and pulsing electronic
score put me in mind of 'Drive' as much as anything else.

As with much of Ellis' work there is a slightly gay worldview and a set
of observations which don't ring quite so accurate when presented as a
depiction of the motives and behaviour of wider society. But that works
well here, adding to the creepy, off-key and uncertain atmosphere, and
again fits in with the world of his previous books and films.

To sum up, it's no Citizen Kane or Sunset Boulevard but it's far from a
disaster, and well worth a look for those that can come to it with open
eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
I was eager to see 'The Canyons' because of Paul Schrader, Brett Easton
Ellis directing and writing respectively, and Lindsay Lohan as the
lead. I'm not a LiLo fanatic by any means, but I have always thought
that given the right script and director she would be primed for a
comeback. And if she can clean up her personal life then maybe she
deserves one. The film for me was neither horrible nor far from
perfect. The movie opens with scenes of boarded up movie theaters's,
and I don't quite get the symbolism there since Hollywood seems alive
and well. It is puzzling to me though that the Schrader/Ellis team had
to go the Kickstarter route to raise a minute $250,000 for the budget.
As you probably know, the film center's around two couples- a trust
fund 'doucebag' named Christian who hasn't even read the script for the
movie he is helping fund and Lohan as his girlfriend Tara, and unknown
to Christian, Tara's ex Ryan, who is now dating Christian's assistant.
Ryan has also been cast as the lead in the movie, and he and Tara are
still hooking up. You would think Christian wouldn't be jealous of
Tara's sex life since he constantly invites strange men and women into
their bedroom, but of course he is. He suspects Tara is sleeping with
Ryan, and things spiral out of control from there. Much has and will be
said about the sex scene's in the film, but for me what really worked
was Lohan's performance. You can sense that the actress knows her
career is in trouble, and when she talks about needing to be taken care
of, and not wanting to go back to being poor, you start to wonder where
the acting stops and her real life begins. The movie isn't perfect, and
the performances are flawed. I'm not at all happy with the ending, but
I still think it's worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Release Date: 2nd August 2013 (US) 

After starring briefly in two of the years worst films, Lindsay Lohan
makes her full length return in Paul Schrader's "The Canyons". A film
that documents just how crazy one individual can go, when he finds out
about the secret love affair between his girlfriend and the lead on his
film project.

With this being Lindsay Lohan's first full length appearance since the
critically panned, "Labor Pains" released in 2009, there has been a lot
of correspondence and speculation surrounding this indie flick.

Despite hearing some very mixed opinions, I have to say I wasn't
particularly fazed by "The Canyons". The film is littered with
problems, yet I never really had any trouble sitting through it. It is
overdramatic and slightly ridiculous, but at times, that alone makes it
a very compelling watch.

Don't get me wrong, I didn't enjoy the movie, but I didn't dislike it
either. It's a very middle of the road experience. Well at least it was
for me anyway.

The films production budget is very low. So don't go into it expecting
some extravagant revenge-romance esque thriller, because that's not
what it is. In a way, the films plot-line could be compared to that of
a soap opera. It's not particularly exciting, but it is partially
entertaining watching it unfold.

However, for such a low budget film ($250,000 to be precise), the film
is actually rather attractive. It is very well lit and the various
locations work with the direction that the film goes in. It's well
cinematised, and in terms of shots, whilst it doesn't do anything
original, there were times when I was watching the film amending some
of the cinematography.

Now a lot of media outlets have compared to the film to porn. I don't
necessarily agree with that statement. Sure there are specific body
parts that are revealed on numerous occasions, but whilst there is an
emphasis on sex, it's not as explicit as a lot of people have made it
out to be.

The performances are average. Nobody really impressed me and whilst
nobody is bad, some of the dialogue is very cheesy and repetitive, but
of course that can only be blamed on the writers. Lindsay Lohan offers
a solid turn as does real life porn star, James Deen, but nobody does
anything that you're going to love or remember the next day. Everyone's
very mediocre, and due to how ridiculous the film eventually becomes,
the characters all end up becoming rather comical.

Whilst the film does lack in its key areas, along with the
cinematography, one of the aspects I liked was the score. I will be the
first to admit that it does sound very amateurish, but the electronic
nature of it occasionally works, with what the movie is trying to
present. That presentation being that shouldn't have affairs,
especially if you're dating a complete an utter psychopath.

I have to admit The Canyons was lot of better than I expected it to be.
I didn't necessarily enjoy it, but there were aspects to it that I
liked. Perhaps I'm being too nice, but for a low budget production I
didn't find it too bad. If you have a partial interest in seeing it,
see it. But if you don't, then I wouldn't bother.

5/10 

Check out my website: www.jacks-reviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
'The Canyons' is a farcical tale about a collection of characters who
deceive and manipulate each other to distract from the emptiness of
their lives. Chief amongst them is a sociopathic film producer,
Christian, whose jaded girlfriend Tara reluctantly consents to the sex
orgies he arranges with random internet strangers. After Tara helps a
former boyfriend, Ryan, get the lead role in Christian's new movie,
they resume their old affair, despite Ryan having a girlfriend called
Gina who is also working on the film. Christian grows increasingly
suspicious of Tara's fidelity outside the group sex dynamic, and has
her followed by a slacker private eye, while he hooks up with a former
assistant, who is also an old girlfriend of Ryan.

This juvenile nonsense is merely the set-up, and director Shrader
cannot elevate the subsequent hokey-pokey above the level of a day-time
soap after making disastrous casting decisions with Lindsay Lohan,
James Deen and Nolan Funk as his lead trio. The only competent actor is
Amanda Brooks who plays the scorned Gina in a minor role. Although
she's actually five years older than Lohan, she looks fifteen years
younger and fifty times more desirable than the supposedly irresistible
Tara. Sex is a crucial plot element, but no erotic intensity is
generated since the characters are pathetically undeveloped. Instead
the film wastes many tedious minutes on lengthy shots of them entering
and exiting cars and buildings. 'The Canyons' limps along with wooden
direction, dialog, acting and storytelling, failing miserably to invest
this portrayal of Hollywood's seedy glamor with any vitality. None of
the deceptions and manipulations have any discernible goal, but they
eventually lead to a pointless act of violence and an implausible tired
conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
I could not finish watching this movie as it is less than a B movie. I
stopped watching this movie because of the quality of the acting, the
make up, location and overall script. Film looked cheap and cheesy.

It seemed that this movie is going right along with what the tabloids
are saying about this actress. It looks like she and her friends who
she parties with produced this film.

I expected a lot better, especially of all the hype with Lindsay. Maybe
Lindsay seriously has to focus on any project she takes on, especially
if she helps produce it. 

The public sees you as a particular character in the parts actors and
actresses take on. It is part of their reputation.

I hope these actors and actresses can learn from criticism, move on and
learn something from it in order to better their skills.
