
This movie wasn't as good as the original movie (mainly because it felt
like an hour and a half long episode), but I have to admit that the
comedy in this movie was 110% top notch and better than all of the
episodes that came after the original movie. When I heard that Stephen
Hillenburg returned for the movie, I was excited. However, I can
definitely tell that his sense of humor has changed (not in a bad way,
though)

For example, Seasons 1-3 (Golden Era of SpongeBob) had some adult
humor, mixed in with cartoonish humor for the more kid-friendly side.
The original movie was also as such.

Season 4-9 were just straight bland cartoons. Nothing really funny,
just Spongebob and Patrick laughing annoyingly for a 30 minute time
slot, with the plot being something either rehashed, or just straight
bland or predictable. 

This movie, however, was WAY different than anything SpongeBob related
I've ever seen. The comedy that Stephen Hillenburg brought back to the
table was very different than we've seen in Seasons 1-3. The jokes in
this movie made me think I was watching a movie like Airplane or Top
Gun, the jokes just being unpredictable in the stupidest way, which was
extremely funny. For example, there's a part where Plankton tells
SpongeBob "Wait! Hold your thoughts!" and SpongeBob is then seen,
literally holding a thought bubble, just stupid unpredictable comedy
like that. I appreciate that, and love that it is refreshing. There
were also some suggestive themes in the movie, so the adult appeal is
definitely back!

On the kid side, it was also EXTREMELY different than I've ever seen in
SpongeBob. At first, I didn't like how over the top and WEIRD this film
was on the kid friendlier side, but I stopped and realized that kids
from 1999 and kids from 2015 are ENTIRELY different and have different
appeals. After realizing this, all of the randomness and overall
WEIRDNESS in this movie made sense. Instead of following the same
boring and bland formula from seasons 4-9, someone in the writing staff
must have finally said "Listen, we need to catch the appeal of kids
today. If we're going to make kids interested in our show, we need to
pull them in." and I have to say that it definitely did. I know what
the kids are into these days (not trying to sound old), and SpongeBob
definitely pulled it off in this new movie.

With an entirely different, hilarious, and refreshing comedy stance
than seasons 1-3, and a huge attempt at actually appealing to kids of
2015 rather than following a bland formula, I have to say that Season
10 is going to be one of the best seasons since the show started. It
will reel in kids again, as well as appealing to adults with classic
humor and unpredictable comedy. I feel as if the entire show is going
to be COMPLETELY different, and it will definitely be noticeable! 

In a nutshell: Loved the movie, comedy was refreshing and hilarious,
the kid friendlier side I thought was stupid, but you have to realize
that kids in 2015 are different than kids from 1999.
<|_=00=_|>
Summary: This movie was so messed up... but I liked it anyway. 70/100
(B-)

Even though it's not even close to the awesomeness of the first movie,
still a good movie. The animation was great and the jokes were funny
enough. The whole audience was dying of laughter! There were a lot of
strange and messed up moments in the movie, there was also a reference
to "The Shining" and I was like: What the hell am I seeing? Anyway,
this movie is anything but boring. I couldn't take my eyes of the
screen, I was so entertained the whole running time. The first
SpongeBob movie was already surreal and weird, this one... *sigh* has
crossed the line.

The 3D was incredible, well done and eye-popping. There's a great
action sequence near the end of the movie with the pirate involved
(performed by Antonio Banderas), and it was so damn funny and
fast-paced. On the downside, some repetitive jokes become tiresome as
the running time goes, the above-water stuff was way too short and
well... actually the whole movie was very short to me, I don't know
why, this movie should be longer! Again, the whole above-water stuff
that you can see in the trailer was actually 20% of the movie,
seriously WTF, I wanted more.

I left the theater a bit unsatisfied. I felt like I just watched a
movie that's 50 minutes long. Also, another of my issues was the
ending, the songs in the ending were unnecessary and a little bit
annoying. In addition, another issue was the villain. Antonio Banderas
was great, but his character is not very well developed, he was a quite
uninteresting villain. Leaving aside its flaws, I noticed one thing,
the editing is really well done and even though it has some messed up
moments the movie is never confusing because its premise is so short
and easy to follow.

The editing makes the whole film more dynamic and easy to understand.
So, in conclusion this SpongeBob movie is not even close to the 2004
film, but it has enough visuals and clever gags to satisfy the audience
in general. The above-water sequences are so damn enjoyable, the 3D
looks fantastic and there are a lot of moments in the movie that are so
damn surreal and messed up! Think of an animated version of
Interstellar. Also, I don't want to spoil it, but I'm just gonna say
that first scene with the dolphin was so strange.

I'm pretty sure that a lot of people will dislike this film, mainly
because of the ending, some annoying songs, the strangely uncomfortable
moments and the shortness of the film. But to me, it is not a bad movie
at all. I highly recommend it, especially if you're fan of the TV show.
If you're going to see it, you must see it in 3D and on a huge screen.
It is a pretty good spectacle. It is great that the movie took
advantage of its 3D format, it looked great. Also, do not forget to see
Squidward's dancing in the end credits, it will remind you to the old
times. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm almost 100% sure this movie was made to watch while tripping, given
that for about 10 to 20 min of the movie you just sit there and ask
yourself, "WTF going on?". 

This is definitely a movie that can be enjoyed by kids and adults
alike. If you're too good for the ridiculous humor that is SpongeBob
then you should probably lock yourself in your house and keep your buzz
kill personality with you. 

The 3D visuals were surprisingly good. In fact I would say it's some of
the best I've seen. I definitely recommend watching this movie in 3D. 

Get up and go watch this movie and just let loose. You and your kids
will love it. In fact you don't even need the kids, cause you'll love
it. Life's too short to be boring! Don't let those critics who think
they're too sophisticated keep you from seeing the movie because deep
down inside we're all immature! ; )
<|_=00=_|>
Well, it was a night like any other. Except I'd just taken mushrooms
for the first time and I was tripping my goddamn balls off!

And as I sat there in the most comfortable cushion seats of the theater
gazing in to the infinite humor of youthful cartoons what I realized
was that I was about to discover the meaning of life. 

A yellow sponge and a red sea-star traveling trough space and time
accompanied by joy. And Ye pirates that screamed ahoy! From surreal
imagination kittens to epic rap battles this movie made life immortal. 

That my friend, was the last time I ever did try mushrooms, I can't say
I regret it though. I mean, it is important to broaden your horizons.

How else would've learned to live amongst the grizzlies? But hey,
that's a story for another night.

Cheers,

Goofy Goober
<|_=00=_|>
Spongebob Squarepants is one of the greatest animated television shows
of all time. It sounds weird, but for some reason, it shaped the sense
of humor of a generation and possibly one of the inspirations that
helped exceed the imagination and creativity of many cartoon shows that
came after. The show itself has been terrific in its first three
seasons, but after its first feature film, it slowly loses its touch
until every character becomes something else other than what they were
once known for. This latest Spongebob film might be the end of its
glory as it seemingly panders the audience into another lame Alvin and
the Chipmunks/The Smurfs approach, but surprisingly that only becomes a
marketing stunt, and it turns out that most of the movie is basically
just like the show, but at its original form. It didn't need any grand
or blockbuster type of plot to save the material, we just need to
revisit the stuff that we truly loved about Spongebob.

Other than its creative animation and zany undersea world, Spongebob
Squarepants has always been known for its richly established characters
and unique sense of humor. I haven't seen the show in a while,
specifically the newer episodes, but I do remember how the ones that
followed season four have become paler incarnations of the show. This
feature film, while stuck in posing as a typical family movie fare, is
actually meant to stay loyal to what really defines this show. The
characters have gone back to their classic personalities (Spongebob can
now be reasonable again than just a complete goofball) and the humor is
smartly priceless in an ultimately unhinged way. The film doesn't offer
anymore bigger plot than retrieving the Krabby Patty secret formula,
it's all about fooling at the audiences as it messes with the logic and
their senses, the Spongebob way, of course.

The mix of animation and live-action is definitely never a stranger to
Spongebob, but its involvement is often taken as a joke. Here, it's
supposed to be its central idea. Though, it takes so long for them to
get out of the water, in spite of its title, but when they do, it still
sticks to its own surreal, extremely ludicrous style. But their
welcoming antics up there felt forced, in comparison. The 3D stuff
really exists to attract the viewers who thinks it's gonna be a cute
adventure with the characters as silly superheroes, but it's mostly
just a small payoff to those who have that expectation. It kind of
cheats them, otherwise it's a cool trick for instead luring them to
what makes this material so enjoyable. But we don't have to
underestimate this approach too much, because apparently it's still
pretty fun when they are in the real world, giving the humans some
hilarious reactions, like the one who's wondering if the Krabby Patty
he's eating is hallucinogenic after encountering the gang as
superheroes.

As feature film goes, it doesn't go beyond bombastic, if it does then
it's all about the weirdness instead of epic proportions. This is
basically just like a new episode on a length of an actual movie. And
the cast has always been great no matter what. Out of all the cartoons
Tom Kenny has been, Spongebob will always be his best and he once again
brings the lovable charm to the character. While Antonio Banderas makes
a fun turn as the villain, but his moments are the one where he
interacts to talking seagulls which amazingly works for this character.

The Spongebob Movie: Sponge Out of Water is what the fans deserve. Not
sure how the newcomers would exactly react to it, but this movie fully
represents the true spirit of the show. It would be a brilliant
surprise to the ones who missed this great side of Spongebob. It didn't
need any deeper sentiments or darkness (unless we're referring to its
twisted humor, because it gets a little close to that.) Sure it's not
the best episode ever either, but it has so many elements that remind
us why we loved this show in the first place. The out-of-water scenes
weren't as bad as many fans were worried about, it's just some randomly
crazy addition to an already fun ride. Overall, it's more nostalgic
than groundbreaking, I do hope this movie would be the salvation of
this show. It won't change anyone's life or anything, we just like
Spongebob to be Spongebob again and that's already given too much to a
fan like me who grew up with the cartoon.
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me say that I am not a huge fan of SpongeBob (because I
thought it was the only thing that is ever on Nickelodeon) or someone
who watches the show, so I had low expectations for this film. I
watched it and was a lot of fun! The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge Out of
Water is Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon Movies' second time of
bringing the sponge who lives in a pineapple under the sea on the big
screen. The film has very creative animation with the 2D animation of
the style of the show, and the characters in computer animation when
the head to the surface. (This movie had bad marketing that gave away
almost all of the live-action parts of the film, so this isn't a
"live-action/CGI hybrid movie" like The Smurfs or Alvin and the
Chipmunks) The humor is always so funny that I could never stop
laughing. If you are a SpongeBob fan, then this is a must watch. For
those in the mood for some goofy fun, even if you are not a fan of the
show, then go check this one out.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie was fantastic!!!! I loved the comedy jokes. The awesome
animation. Just amazing. Thank you Nickelodeon. I can't wait for season
11 in summer 2015 :) Also The Voicing of the characters was fantastic!
Awesome HD quality. Action packed comedy perfect for kids.I loved the
film, I think a lot of people would also agree with me!! I just want to
thank Nickelodeon for their hardwork. And to let you know all the
Spongebob fans love your work. And We can't wait for more Spongebob
episodes.So that's it, what are you waiting for, watch the brilliant
movie now :D I recommend everyone should watch this movie. It's
hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was really good! One of my favourite movies, in fact. I
loved the comedic jokes, the near-perfect animation and great character
development! It has all the great qualities from season 1-3 of
Spongebob (back in the old days) and gets rid of all of the bad things
from season 4 and onwards.

My only real problems were that some of the acting from the new
characters weren't as good as spongebob and the gang. Also, I wish they
had added some more characters, like Mrs. Puff, Gary, Larry and
Squilliam into it, but I'm just nit picking!

Overall, this was a great movie with memorable characters and a good
story, and I recommend this to everyone, whether you like Spongebob or
not.
<|_=00=_|>
Btw. this is my first review! hope you enjoy! I saw this movie a day
after it came out. I was excited to see a new sponge bob movie! I kid
you not, the time travel scenes did make me feel dizzy. I caught some
of the old jokes like "My Leg!" While watching this movie, I enjoyed
the superhero forms but I thought it was gonna be like the old episode.
I took my little sister to see it and she liked it because of Spongebob
characters. I liked the rap battle between the Dolphin and the Seaguls.
A nice om-age to Epic Rap Battles of History. It was a very comical
experience (I.e. the cannon balls in the bubbles and the ice cream
flying out of the shop. All in all, a great movie for the kids, and fun
for old sponge bob fans like me
<|_=00=_|>
Back there in 2004 when the first Spongebob movie was released, I
couldn't see it in the movie theater. When I watched the first trailer
of this new movie I was very happy to know I would have the chance to
see Spongebob, one of my favorite cartoons, in a big screen, and the
best part, in 3D! I really enjoy watching 3D movies, and this one
wasn't different.

The animation is stunning - both under and above the water scenes! The
live-action scenes are also amazing, and all of them have great 3D
depth!

The soundtrack is very good too, it even has some musics that the TV
show fans will recognize. And there is a song that Spongebob sings with
Plankton, just like one of the old episodes of the show were they sung
a song together. And there are some another references to the TV show,
and most of them are really funny.

This movie looks like just a long episode of the TV show (more like the
new seasons along with some references to older seasons), so most older
fans will probably love it, and the new fans might like it as well!
