
UGH...just saw MM XXL and I left the theater feeling grubby. Look, I'm
no prude and I really liked the first Magic Mike and was hoping to see
the same kind of guilty pleasure with some good moves. Forget it. These
guys just used their nice bodies in a showy, uninteresting way and
there was very little classy hot dancing.

It's such a rip off when actors just walk through a movie because it's
going to make money. Wait for the DVD if you want to see this. It's
corny, sleazy, very little dancing by the guys and a stupid, stupid
story line. This movie had no class at all as the first Magic Mike
had...that one was good! 

Sheesh, I almost walked out about 25 min. into the movie, but then I
thought I could not give a solid review if I did. What a waste of my
time. I should have gone to Terminator.
<|_=00=_|>
Strange it is to pay seven to ten dollars to see a movie about male
strippers--and none of them even remove their tee shirts until a so-
called "grand finale" at the end. This is when our boys actually strip
down to speedos and jock straps. Wow. Channing Tatum, the main star,
was all over the media months before the premiere, assuring one and all
that this sequel to the highly successful original, "Magic Mike,"
definitely deserves a "hard X" since it'll show off a lot more of the
guys than previously seen. As he winked and smirked, he also promised
us he would keep the most handsome of the original strippers, Joe
Manganiello, naked as much as possible. Tatum's promises never
appeared. Instead, we have nearly two hours of non-stop verbal garbage
as the guys ad-lib and we can't understand anything they say since they
all swallow their words. In their van they're traveling to Myrtle Beach
for a stripper convention and along they way, they have several
encounters with women who are so unattractive they're only blurs. Then
we come to big stripper event. We're tantalized by seeing other male
strippers preparing for the show but we never see them. All we see is a
hysterical carnival like routine featuring Tatum, Joe and Matt Bonner.
They whirl around, move their hips against women and when they finish,
we realize none of our hotties even showed their butts, let alone their
joy sticks. Probably the most hideous sequence in the movie that drags
on forever is when the guys stop at a plantation to see black strippers
but it's all filmed so darkly you can't tell what's happening in the
shadows. Poor Jada Pickett Smith. She should definitely grab the
Raspberry Award for the Most Horrendous cameo in the movie. This is a
movie that could safely play on the Disney Channel but even the kids
would be bored out of their skulls.
<|_=00=_|>
I totally loved the first Magic Mike and the first 5 minutes of XXL
looked good too. But after those first 5 minutes....XXL suddenly turned
into one long improv show - The sort of improv done by people with
fabulous bodies and no sense of humor whatsoever - The sort of improv
where audience members shout out topics like "Frozen Yogurt" or "A
boring person sits next to you on a bus and just won't shut up." After
a while I felt sorry for the actors who seemed to try so hard to come
up with something, anything, to say, while growing more and more
resentful as in "Hey - we're strippers, not writers. Do we have to do
everything?" 

And the dancing this time? Yuck. I even felt sorry for the female
audience members in the dance sequences. Imagine that you are just out
for a fun bachelorette party, when you suddenly find yourself thrust 6
feet in the air with your "bachelorette parts" strapped across some
strange guy's face and then the guy starts doing somersaults and
cartwheels. Ouch.

I left about 3/4ths of the way through. It was just all too sad.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Channing Tatum and I'd go and watch anything with him in it. I
also liked the first Magic Mike movie for what it was - very
lightweight entertainment, some hot male bodies, a bit of humour, a bit
of a plot line and some great dancing.

This sequel is just grubby, and, well boring. The dancing is minimal.
Most of the 'performances' at the end aren't dancing at all. The Andy
McDowell house scenes went on and on ... and on, with absolutely no
plot purpose and no dancing, so what was the point? And the scenes with
the women 'clients' at the Jade Pickett Smith establishment are pretty
demeaning to the women. The bumping and grinding on fat women in the
movie is clearly meant to show what great 'performers' these strippers
are, able to fake it with any desperate female. I'm absolutely no
prude, but it all became pretty sickening in the end, and I was just
BORED with the whole thing really. Channing, it's time to move on,
mate.
<|_=00=_|>
You see one male stripper and, apparently, you've seen em all.

A thin excuse for a cheap movie that once would have been relegated to
drive in movie theaters and 2nd run houses. Aging strippers head out on
a road trip of sorts to prove they till have what it takes. Just bogus
and predictable all the way around. Compounded with Smith's role as a
woman named Rome (really? Rome?) who owns a strip joint and is like
nails on a chalk board.

There a couple of men of color but other wise it's white bread all the
way and mostly aging white bread at that. Stripping is a young man's
game. Most of these guys are headed to 40 and middle age.

They all look as if they took a dip in a pool filled with hair remover.
Manganiello's trademark gray hair and salt and pepper beard have
magically disappeared to make him look younger.

All the stars do double duty in their parts and as part of a coast to
coast marketing machine designed to fill the seats and the producers
pockets. They all agree that rehearsing and performing in thongs was a
true bro boding experience and make fun of their junk and blah blah
blah.

Save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
2012's Magic Mike wasn't exactly about the stripping. Sure, it features
a lot of it, but the real center of the movie was the lifestyle of its
main character, Mike. This latest installment showcases more of the
crew and how they put up the show. It's more choreography driven than
some commentary, which actually made it more appropriate to this
material. It still has the stunning style of the first one, though it
mostly feels quite forced, but if the movie tries to be itself, then
there it actually shines. Magic Mike XXL indeed brings much of what you
expect from it.

While the first movie basically shows the art of its aesthetics, this
sequel rather shows the art of stripping. The story isn't quite
remarkable; it's so simple that it's nothing more than an excuse to
show more of these acts, which is both a good thing and otherwise. But
really, that's what the target audience really came here for. Just like
the first one, it's all atmosphere than following a plot. We just see
these characters trying to get along, hint some commentary, and do some
stripping. The difference however is the stripping is the real
showcase, as in the direction and choreography improves within that
aspect which makes these performances speak what this movie is truly
about. People would immediately think that this would only appeal
female viewers, but even as a straight man as I am, I would actually be
impressed by the choreography displayed on those scenes.

The direction does try to keep Soderbergh's style going in this sequel,
though only eschewing the intense sepia and welcoming other colors on
the daylight. The new style is sometimes indefinite, specifically the
vague lighting in some scenes, but then, the movie eventually breaks
the pretense once the characters start dancing on screen, having more
focus on their moves, and of course, bodies. Star, Channing Tatum,
still has the charm as he always has. The other performers also get
their characters expanded, staying natural whenever they bond and fight
off on screen, treating them beyond than typical eye candy compared to
the first one.

Many may call Magic Mike XXL a totally needless sequel or a cash grab
for those who seek for more endless dose of shirtless men, but I
believe this movie actually exists to make up for its own value. The
story may not be as meaty as its predecessor's, but it shows everything
what its audiences actually wanted for it. And it is done elegantly,
proving that stripping apparently has more to offer than just lust for
flesh. It sounds incredibly weird if you say it that way, but looking
at these performances seems like this is an art that we didn't see
coming. Again, there's nothing remarkable about the story, though if
you're curious about the appeal of this career, then it gives a room
for fascination.
<|_=00=_|>
I totally loved the first Magic Mike movie because it was fun and
exciting and had that true-to-life sense about it, BUT this one: Magic
Mike XXL (2015) just "blows" so to speak.

The story line was weak and scattered and the ostensibly erotic dancing
while agile and acrobatic was rather gross and coarse, the kind of
stuff that makes a girl feel itchy and uncomfortable -- this girl
anyway.

And I don't believe this is a spoiler but what's with this business of
all women being queens and all men being kings? Kinda stupid to begin
with and overworked in this flick.

Also I love Channing Tatum, and have enjoyed every movie I've ever seen
him in, but the best scene in this one -- and this may be a spoiler, I
guess -- though nothing could spoil this movie more than it spoiled
itself -- the best scene in it was with Joe Manganiello at a
convenience store.

On the way to the theater, I had been telling my husband that what I
liked about the first Magic Mike movie was that it was the joyous and
fun side of sex and exotic dancing, very, sexy but not overly dirty or
pornographic, so I was excited and looking forward to this one, and
then we watched it and it was... well, it was a grueling hour and 55
minutes sitting through it...

If there was someone I could ask for my money back, I'd do it.

I gave it a 2 instead of a 1 for Joe Manganiello's performance and
because I love Channing Tatum.

Magic Mike XXL not recommended at all. Sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the first Magic Mike, I liked it a lot. I found it funny and
interesting. It was entertaining. I thought that Channing Tatum was a
really good dancer and, while watching, I regretted of not being a male
stripper myself (beautiful life, lot of girls, you know).

But this one is terrible. Boring, depressing I wonder who could really
like it: girls? I doubt it. Men? Not a chance. 

I won't tell a word about the plot, as IMDb warns me not to do it. I
will only state my disappointment for the lack of an entertaining
story, a catching character or a good show. A terrible wasting of good
actors and time.
<|_=00=_|>
"It's not bro time, it's show time. Are you guys ready?" It's been
three year since Mike (Tatum) last danced. He runs a successful
business and is looking to make a great life for himself. When he hears
that the rest of the Kings of Tampa want to give up the life too they
all decide there is only one way to retire. The boys head to Myrtle
Beach for one last performance. First thing I have to say is that I am
a man, so this review is done from my point of view. I thought the
first movie wasn't as bad as I was expecting, but to me it was just
cheesy and actually pretty much what I expected. I do remember there
was enough comedy in it to keep me interested. This movie seemed to
play on the women will watch the hell out of this so it doesn't matter
what we do. As far as that thinking goes, it worked. My wife really
liked it, but I'm not sure if she liked the movie or just liked
watching the movie. This is a movie that is pretty much review proof,
either you want to see a movie about male strippers or you don't. Not
much else to say. Overall, not as good as the first one, mainly because
this one had no real story. On the other hand I am a guy, not the
target audience, and the only reason most women watch is not for the
plot. I give this a C.
<|_=00=_|>
(Rating: ☆ ½ out of 4)

This film is not recommended.

In brief: The filmmakers can adjust their junk the best they can, but
junk is still junk, no matter the size.

GRADE: C-

Life is filled with irony. While driving home after seeing the stud
dud, Magic Mike XXL, the radio station began playing You Gotta Have a
Gimmick from Gypsy, that classic show- tune about strippers. Fate?
Coincidence? Bad luck? Whatever, it struck me as a sign of the times.
The gimmick was there: The bodies are toned and well oiled. Their moves
well choreographed and fluid. Sex is for sale once again in this
sequel. Only this time around, the sleaze is on slow-boil and the meat
has been tenderized for consumption. The sordidness of male strippers
is on the back burner as this film version celebrates the legitimacy of
male dancers as a serious art form. Really? This is pure (or impure)
fantasy, totally devoid of any reality. With all of its come-ons and
dirty dancing (and no frontal nudity), the film never satisfies its
intended audience.

Magic Mike XXL is not a serious expose about the sex business as its
predecessor purported to be. The first installment tried to show the
dirty side of the sex-for-sale business, with its sleazy show biz world
on display. Not so here. This sequel is a simple dance movie with lots
of sex thrown in. It's more interested in all the right moves, but
there's very little reality, plot, or logic. This version has become a
road movie as Mike (Channing Tatum) and his buddies, known as the Kings
of Tampa, deciding to relive their glory days by putting on one last
show, an encore performance to go out in style at a stripper convention
in Myrtle Beach.

Dare I say, directed (and I am using the term very loosely) by Gregory
Jacobs and written (even more loosely) by Reid Carolin, Magic Mike XXL
is silly and naughty fun, especially made for repressed gays or horny
females looking for the cheapest of thrills. The film just may be
perfect for bachelorette parties too, but as a movie-going experience,
it's limp.

The non-direction is the main reason for this erectile dysfunction of a
movie. The film lacks any subtlety or good taste with its groping and
in-your-crotch shots. The film's salaciousness overpowers any fun. But
the film does treat both sexes with equal disdain: men are sexual
objects and women are sex crazed nymphs. What a piece of work is man!

The screenplay is an absolute mess. The dialog has an improvisational
vibe that is incomprehensible most of the times and stilted the rest of
the times. It wants to impress with hip rap, gangster swagger, and
non-stop f-bombs, as if to say, "I'm cool", but it all comes across as
just plain silly and labored. The story spends too much time meeting
various characters that never amount to much. Scenes need judicious
cutting and go on endlessly (a visit to a black private club, a meeting
with some older repressed Southern ladies, a drug- filled night on the
beach).

Most of the choreography (by Alison Faulk) is sexual gyrations and
simulated sexual posing, although it is hard to tell what action is
being done on stage due to the lousy editing that is too close for
comfort and rarely shows off the dance moves and some of the worst
photography to be seen in a major studio film: ugly, grainy, out of
focus and usually shot in a dinghy yellow-brown hue. Surprisingly,
Steven Soderbergh mishandled both duties.

The cast is uneven. Except for Mr. Tatum, who really can dance, Matt
Bomer who tries to develop his ill-gotten pretty boy role, and the
charismatic Joe Manganiello who truly looks the part, the others boy
toys just mill around bonding and getting high or drunk. The most
uncomfortable of the lot seems to be Kevin Nash as Tarzan who plays his
role more Neanderthal than human. Also adding little to the film except
for a winning smile and nice set of abs are Adam Rodriguez as Tito and
comedian Gabriel Iglesias in the role as an unfunny stooge named
Tobias. However the strangest part of the film is a tawdry cameo by
Michael Strahan (of sports and talk show fame). His contribution, a
graphic lap dance with an obese woman, is an embarrassment of bad taste
that sets back women rights and questions the real motives of the
filmmakers and this television personality's dubious career choices.
Adding to this debacle are the wasted talents of Addie MacDowell,
Elizabeth Banks, Amber Heard, and Jada Pinkett Smith. 

The dance showdown at the stripper convention peters out really fast
(pardon the pun) with no real climax (again, my apologies) as the film
follows its predictable conclusion. But there are some dance sequences
that do work quite effectively: Channing's all too short scene in his
"body" shop, an amusing segment with Mr. Manganiello in a convenience
store, and the final dance-off involving mirror images of Channing and
Stephen "tWitch" Boss (underused) that become an R-rated version of a
So You Think You Can Dance routine. (It makes sense since the
choreographer and dancer worked on that television show.)

As that clever song from Gypsy so aptly states: "If you wanna grind it,
Wait till you refine it." Magic Mike XXL hits more than its share of
bumps than grinds, with no refinement in sight. 

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
