
If this had been written and played as a straight-out dark comedy - and
if it had been at least half an hour shorter - perhaps it would have
passed as a run of the mill movie. But since it has been presented as a
serious mystery, it has committed the cardinal sin of filmmaking - that
of disrespecting the intelligence and/or perspicacity of the audience.
For us, the film represents a significant achievement in that it
contains more and larger plot holes than any other movie we have ever
seen - and we've seen many! This was even worse than Babel! That said -
and a warning that reading further will take you deep into spoiler
territory - the following is by no means a comprehensive list of the
major holes in the plot. So ladies and gentlemen, start your engines
and drive your semis straight through an impressive array of plot
stupidity: 1. Amy buys a car listed on Craigslist for cash so there's
no record of the purchase. How about title and license? Where does she
keep the car until she needs it? How does she get to it when she needs
it without being seen? 2. Amy buys lots of tech toys and crams her
sister-in-law's shed with them. How does she get into and out of the
shed without her sister-in-law (who doesn't like her) noticing? 3. The
shed is where her husband sometimes has liaisons with another woman.
They don't notice the accumulating gadgets? 4. The gadgets are bought
online. Who is signing for them? 5. When the gadgets are investigated,
whose fingerprints will be all over them - if there are any? 6. Desi is
supposed to have broken into the house, beat her bloody and kidnapped
her. There's blood all over the kitchen, but none where she would have
been dragged out of the house? 7. As he supposedly leaves the house
with an at best barely conscious Amy, Desi picks up her diary, takes it
to her father-in-law's place and attempts to burn it in the furnace.
Why? 8. How does Desi know where Amy's father-in-law lives? 9. Several
days elapse from the time of the supposed kidnapping until Amy winds up
at Desi's lake house. Can nobody attest to Desi's being at home during
the time he was supposed to be kidnapping Amy? 10. What will be made of
the video cameras at the lake house not showing anyone there for the
first several days? 11. Desi was supposed to be holding her prisoner.
Did nobody at the casino notice them there - including the man who
thought she looked familiar? 12. Where does Amy's car wind up? 13.
Phone records I: Amy makes the anonymous phone call tipping the police
off to the contents of the shed. No record of that? 14. Amy scores a
hole in one at miniature golf and jumps up and down for joy - which
causes her money belt to fall off. This apparently was an Acme money
belt on loan from Wile E. Coyote. 15. A couple robs Amy of all her
money. Being the psycho she is, are we to believe that she is going to
let them get away with it? 16. Phone records II. What is going to be
made of Amy's phone call to Desi? Sure it was from a pay phone, but
isn't it going to raise any flags? 17. Amy self-inflicts wounds -
supposedly in the bathroom out of sight of cameras - to make it seem as
though she has been bound and raped. Yet wouldn't the cameras show her
entering the bathroom without wounds and emerging with wounds? 18. Amy
winds up in the hospital upon her return. They put wristbands on her
and one guesses they examine her - but they don't bother to wash the
blood off of her. 19. Do they also fail to notice that there is no
evidence of the injuries that would have occurred had she lost copious
amounts of blood at the initial kidnapping? 20. Nick knows that Amy
tried to set him up for her murder, thus opening him up to a possible
death sentence. He also knows that when her plan blows up, she elects
to murder someone who has never wronged her (other than being male) in
order to cover up her actions which, until that point, may have been
criminal - but not capital - offenses. Why does Nick elect to live in
the same county as this woman, let alone in the same house? I could go
on, but I realized before the movie was halfway over that I had already
wasted too much of my life on it.
<|_=00=_|>
Dark and twisted, David Fincher's stylish new mystery thriller was
derived from Gillian Flynn's intriguingly slick tale from her complex
and suspenseful novel. By far one of the best acting performances to
have come from Ben Affleck, 'Gone Girl' boasts some strong yet
disturbing portrayals from Rosamund Pike, Neil Patrick Harris, Tyler
Perry and Affleck. Fincher has garnered fame and recognition as a
mainstream director, that is not only able to engulf the audience
within the picture, but actually make them part of the scenario.
Fincher exercises upon his trademarks with the swift and stunning
cinematography, the chilling score and tight editing, all of which
makes 'Gone Girl' a movie full of great visual storytelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Please do not waste your time or money on this nonsense. Oh boy where
do I start. OK for me the worst thing is when she gets back and tells
everyone that Neil Patrick Harris "kidnapped" her (Rosamund). He did
this by bludgeoning her and she lost a large amount of blood which he
cleaned up. Then he takes her diary to her husbands fathers house to
burn!!!!! (how does he even know of this location)?????? But he makes
such a p!$$ poor attempt to burn it which would take 5 min to do
properly as opposed to the 30+ to clean the blood. and no one questions
this even once!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! No one even looks for any wounds or
asks about her wellbeing and she is not treated for any wounds. Oh and
the hospital sends her home covered I mean a copious amount blood. No
flipping way, the hospital would clean her looking for wounds
especially with this much blood.I could go on and on but just read the
other truthful reviews they will point out most of the other glaring
mistakes and downright intelligence insulting nonsense. I really wish
IMDb would have a 0 or negative review number as this does not even
rank a 1. I give this -5 for utter bull$h1*.
<|_=00=_|>
Just seen the film Gone Girl. 

I really struggled with the book and found it incredulous so never
finished it but the film was getting good reviews so I thought I'd give
it a go.

What a pile of crap!

Two and a half hours of my life wasted. The story is just unbelievable.
Neither character makes you like them or hate them. They are just bland
and, well, unbelievable. 

By the end I just wanted someone to firebomb the house and kill the
pair of them. I would have stood up and cheered. As it happened it has
a really lame ending.

A waste of my life. Utter tripe!
<|_=00=_|>
I have NEVER wrote a review in my life. EVER. But I feel compelled to
do so for this film. I'm utterly shocked, just shocked this movie has
an 8.4 rating. What on earth are people thinking? Seriously? I could go
on and on about how the plot is a complete joke. But I'll just point
out the MOST obvious of all that TOTALLY shatters any believably that
this film ever had. Okay Amy said Desi came to her house and kidnapped
her that morning. HUH? She had no clue what he was really doing that
morning. NONE! What if he had a meeting with ten other people that
could account for him not being at her house? What if he was having
breakfast with someone that morning? OK next. Now how about the diary?
So did Desi kidnap her then grab the diary and bring it to a house he
had no clue even existed and burn only about 20% of it? Next! When she
pretends to be screaming with blood on her dress against the window so
the surveillance cameras would see her. Seriously? What about ALL the
other footage those cameras captured? For example, her and Desi sitting
together on a couch watching TV. Oh she deleted that footage? Well what
the hell is her explanation for ALL the footage being erased except the
20 seconds of her screaming. This is not me nitpicking the film and
looking super hard to try and find problems. I get it, a lot of movies
have plot holes here and there and I'm okay with that. But people!
These are HUUUUGE holes in the story. Plot holes are in tons of movies
all the time. But not usually a major motion picture with a major
director and a major movie star. And please! don't tell me shes nuts
and that's why she didn't cover her tracks worth a damn. I am talking
about the fact that she gets away with it to all the law enforcement.
This belongs on Lifetime, those movies you can just shrug off. What
baffles me and actually really upsets me is the fact it has a rating of
8.4. So please people, help me understand this. What on Earth gives
this such a high rating? What were people thinking? What?
<|_=00=_|>
I really cannot figure out why this movie is so highly reviewed.
Everything it sells itself as is a lie. For starters, it is portrayed
as this suspenseful thriller where there are constant twists and turns
and you never really know what is truly happening. Well, that is a
total lie. There is no suspense, there are no serious or intelligent
twists, just a litany of idiotic contrived absurdities.

Spoilers below: 

You clearly see what is happening in very beginning with Nick (Ben
Affleck) and you pretty much know he did not kill his wife 30 minutes
in. Your initial sense is that she is not dead and he did not kill her,
and you are right. There are no more "twists. "The "twist" is that she
is insane, and the movie descends into 2 more hours of ever increasing
idiocy and farcical garbage. Amy (Rosamund Pike) goes off into a series
of illogical and irrational behaviors, including consorting with some
random trash at a trailer park, despite having faked her own death and
being the subject of a massive manhunt. The story just gets more and
more absurd, with more illogical stupidity and unbelievable actions by
other characters, which include police getting a search warrant on a
house based on an "anonymous tip," Nick and his sister being apparently
the dumbest people on Earth who would not move any of the loot out of
the shed before the cops find it, the police engaging in the largest
manhunt ever for a missing person after about 6 hours, etc. The movie
starts out decent but gets continually worse as it goes on, and just
starts getting worse and worse at a faster rate as it continues.

The acting is decent to middling, with Affleck probably giving one of
the better performances overall, and Tyler Perry actually being an
enjoyable aside. The other characters are largely unlikeable,
unbelievable or just stilted caricatures.

The last 30 minutes are, as others have noted, unbelievably ridiculous
and moronic. The woman who so carefully plans out her own death with a
massive amount of preplanning, somehow commits a savage crime of
passion, which is a story FILLED with holes, but somehow is supposed to
have gotten away with it. Also, apparently even though she plotted all
along to have her husband executed, she somehow had the presence of
mind to save the sperm sample, keep it, then AFTER he is exonerated and
she has to alter her plans to return to him last minute after murdering
someone else, has the means to get it successfully implanted in
herself. Oh, she is an absolute psychic apparently.

The ending is ludicrous, the characters are unrealistic farces that
only someone who desperately wants to love this movie would believe,
the story is overrun with artificial plot devices and deus ex machinas
that serve only to advance nonsensical story lines, and the movie is in
no way a twisting, changing thriller. Its just a predictable drama
where the only "unexpected" things are unexpected because they are
absolute nonsense that are make about as much sense as random dog
running on stage and relieving itself. One of the worst movies I have
seen in years.
<|_=00=_|>
i got pulled in at the start it turned out like any other mystery,
action movie all the clues and other attributes etc...

but there was so many thing that just are so IDIOTIC that it pisses me
off. 

I have had so much tension on this from the book thinking it will be
amazing but it all went away half way through the movie.

Spoilers: The part when she actually tries to make up the part of rape
and when she puts wine on her skirt and whatever was so STUPID, WHAT
ABOUT THE BLOODY CAMERAS YOU IDIOTS. And if you're going to say she
disabled them, the what about the actual fake rape scene. she sucked
his dick and was wearing lingerie for gods sake who wears lingerie
randomly. if they looked at the cameras to watch the rape then what
about the dick sucking and shirt tearing and pulling him in on you,
then pulling a knife out from under the pillow. 

But what finished it for me was the ending. WHAT MAN LIKE HIM IN THEIR
OWN MIND WOULD STAY WITH A MURDERING BITCH LIKE THAT AND STILL LOVE
HER. 

This was my opinion you don't have to agree but i just found it so
stupid.
<|_=00=_|>
Actually a good well acted movie till the end. Ben Affleck was
excellent and Rosamund Pike had me 100% convinced she was evil
incarnate. Carrie Coon as Ben's twin sister and Kim Dickens as the lead
detective also gave excellent performances. As for the story, I can
deal with sad endings where the hero dies like Braveheart, Cool Hand
Luke, and endless others. When the credits came up on Gone Girl, I
could only regret spending over 2 hrs to watch a movie that left me
that angry. I would have preferred she had just killed Ben Affleck and
gotten away with it. Assuming the book had the same ending I would have
thrown it across the room upon finishing it. I enjoyed the movie up
till the end but that completely ruined it for me.
<|_=00=_|>
Thought this would be a good thriller, but ultimately it was draining
and depressing. Would think any man who sees this film would never want
to have sex again......it portrayed woman/women as being monstrous and
men as passive, sex-crazed zombies. The story had so many loose ends
and unbelievable scenes, such as where she returns home covered in
blood.....then she's at the hospital - there had to be an exam, then
giving an interview to detectives, then comes home still covered in
blood....how much time elapsed during these scenes, and who would allow
her to drive around, carry on, covered in blood for all that time? With
great emphasis on crass words for women, violent sex scenes, and a
score that sounded like a synthesizer importing screeches from an
airport runway, this was one depressing film. The only place it was
believable was in its depiction of the media and how they revel in
tragedy and perversion. If this becomes our prime form of entertainment
we are in big trouble. Need to watch a pre-1960 film or musical now.
