
First lets; clarify; I am not Mexican nor any in my family and friend
group; however it has been a long long time since we catch kids movie
able to captivate 5,6,7 or 8 year old girls and boy and the parents
that took them. Just the quality, colors and artistry of the images;
makes the movie worth; but the subject matter is even more impressive.
How many times you were able to really laugh on a subject matter like
death and make children (and adults) happy with an adventure that is
pure entertainment but also gives a quite poetic look at life and dead.
In brief; take your children to see it as an excuse; you probably will
enjoy it even more. Forget PIXAR formula products; this is just a
masterpiece
<|_=00=_|>
This is a beautiful animated film. Very unique in comparison to other
animated films out there. I loved that it had funny parts - for adults
as well as kids - but it isn't a silly comedy. It is a gorgeous, epic
folkloric tale of family, tradition and finding your own way. I laughed
and cried, and my kids loved it as much as I did. My kids (ages 3.5 and
5.5) both were entranced and never got bored or scared watching this
film. For families: it wasn't scary at all. I worried maybe the
"skeleton" painted Day of the Dead characters may be creepy but they
weren't at all. The sets and characters were all very beautiful and
unique. The Land of the Remembered was especially visually stunning. I
found it especially touching as a parent of young kids with numerous
generations in "our village" helping raise my kids and help carry each
other through life's highs and lows. I was reminded by this film of the
importance of all the generations that came before us - how we are
shaped by our families. How we learn from and must respect those who
came before us. That was a nice message for me and my kids. But, it
also shows that, while we respect, learn from and inherit gifts from
our fore-bearers, we also have a responsibility to be true to
ourselves, to make our own way and find our true calling. It was also
touchingly romantic. It felt very genuine and warm throughout but the
sweet romantic story was especially touching. You could tell a lot of
love went into making this film. I hope it does well - it should on its
own merit!
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the movie as part a screening tonight with my sister, her friend,
and my daughter (age 12). We all really enjoyed the movie. I laughed a
lot and teared up a few times. Song choices were so funny sometimes. If
you're like me and in your thirties, you will definitely recognize
several of the song choices. When certain ones popped up (no names, as
I don't want to spoil anything), the parents all started laughing so
hard. My daughter enjoyed the movie so much that she wanted to go and
see it again. It had some pretty good life lessons sprinkled in
throughout the humor and songs. If your child is pretty young, there
may be parts of the movie that scare them just a bit (it is a movie
about the dead, after all) and a couple jokes that are aimed more at
adults. I highly recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Musical Manolo, scrappy Joaquin and smart Maria are three close
childhood pals. Maria gets sent to Europe to study. Joaquin gets
seriously into training as a military officer. Manolo is discouraged by
his father from his musical aspirations, forcing him instead to take up
bullfighting, which is the traditional Sanchez family occupation. When
Maria returns to town after several years, Joaquin and Manolo vie for
her heart. 

Meanwhile, the two lords of the underworld, La Muerta (mistress of the
Land of the Remembered) and Xibalba (master of the Land of the
Forgotten) take a bet as to who Maria will end up with. On the Day of
the Dead, the deities interfere with the outcome, leading to an
adventure which will bring the characters from the land of the living
to the land of the dead and back.

The most striking feature of this film is the animation style. The
human characters are made to look like wooden puppets. This artworks
were so ingeniously crafted such that each character is distinct from
each other. The three main human characters all look very good and
noble. The supporting characters are rather on the ugly, distorted side
in their rendition, and these may need getting used to. 

The background artwork is no less spectacular. The highlight of the
whole film are those scenes in the Land of the Remembered, showing it
as a happy bustling and festive place. The colors were so vibrant and
rich. The multi-layered designs were so intricate and meticulous in
their endemically Mexican-inspired details. 

Another wonderful feature of this film is the musical score, written by
Argentine composer Gustavo Santaolalla. This musician has been awarded
the Oscar two times before for films "Babel" and "Brokeback Mountain."
The soundtrack also employs the most unexpected pop songs, sung Mexican
style of course. Hearing a familiar song being sung makes me smile and
even sing along. The sensitive singing voice of Diego Luna (as Manolo)
makes songs as diverse as Radiohead's "Creep" to Elvis' "Can't Help
Falling in Love" sound so good.

I believe this film had a lot of educational value in it for the young
audience it targets. There are a lot of Latino values being tackled
here about friendship and family, the status of women, the respect for
the dead, etc., which are likewise universal as well, more often than
not. It also introduces us, both kids and adults alike, to the vibrant
Mexican culture, especially about their Day of the Dead.

The pace of the film was slow at first, but once you get into its
groove, you will surely enjoy the eventful ride. My two sons with me,
as well as the much younger kids in the theater with us, all seemed to
enjoy the film very much as you hear a lot of gleeful laughter at the
some of the shallower jokes. This was despite the rather macabre
subject matter and several grotesque-looking (albeit in a comical way)
characters. It also had humorous moments that only adults would chuckle
at. 

Aside from Diego Luna, the line-up of voice actors surprisingly
included Zoe Saldana as Maria and Channing Tatum as Joaquin. I would
not have guessed. Other familiar names such as Ron Perlman and
Christina Applegate are also on board. The most unexpected name I saw
on the list though was that of Ice Cube as the sunshiny fluffy
underworld character named Candlemaker. Some well-known Latino actors
like Hector Elizondo, Danny Trejo and Placido Domingo voice the more
mature characters, like Manolo's dad and ancestors.

Overall, "The Book of Life" is a very unique animated feature film. The
basic story is based on Mexican folklore and traditions, so the
animation style had the colors, designs and style of Mexico. The
different look and unfamiliar references may turn off some less
adventurous viewers, but really it should not. This is one very
educational and very entertaining film for all ages. Writer and
Director Jorge R. Gutierrez was able to successfully expand on his
experience on Nickelodeon's frenetic award-winning animated series "El
Tigre:The Adventures of Manny Rivera" (which he also created) and here
proudly showcased his beloved Mexican roots on a much bigger platform.
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
It's October and it is usually the time for Halloween themed movies.
Unfortunately for us, Halloween has been reduced to cheap horrors, or
repetitive thrillers that are a bit of a bore. This year has been
slightly different, but this reviewer would like the studios to go back
in the past and pull some more seasonal themes to entertain us. Well,
someone got my vibe, because my last review is on a film that captures
the festive fun that Halloween is for the young and young at heart. So
sit back my friends and catch my latest review on the animated feature
The Book of Life. 

I'll start this review with talking about the story. The Book of Life
has a fantastic tale that centers on the typical complication of a love
triangle between characters Manolo (Diego Luna), Maria (Zoe Saldana),
and Joaquin (Channing Tatum). Now we know the typical elements involved
in this type of plot, but this film deviates from the typical and gives
a little more pep around the story. From the start you get the
backstory on each character, and the individual struggles they each
face. Then they take these qualities and exploit them by bringing in
the two masters of the underworld, who make a wager as to who will win
the girl. The result of this wager, makes for an interesting romantic
tale that is fun, emotional, and more realistic than half the dramas we
get these days. However, the movie does not stop there, instead it ties
in an adventure and blends it into all the aspects, making for a fun
film. Once more, the whole tale revolves around the Mexican celebration
of the day of the dead, bringing a unique take on the classic Halloween
tale and providing a little education as well. 

The story isn't the only thing influenced by the Mexican culture
though, the artistic style of the movie is also heavily influenced. The
Book of Life is sort of a modern day Nightmare Before Christmas where
CGI takes the place of stop motion animation. Many of the elements are
similar, with the skeletons and landscapes sharp and angular to mirror
the darkness of the afterlife. However, unlike Tim Burton, this
director chose to liven things up a little by veering from the dark
colors and adding wide splashes of colorful. This is not only to catch
your eyes, but also to mirror the celebration that Day of the Dead is
about and that life doesn't end as long as you are remembered. In the
Underworld especially the color comes out, and the festivities are
brought to full fold in the magical realm of the dead. Deep in the land
of the Forgotten, the oblivion of elimination is presented by a frozen
cavern where hope is nonexistent. Regardless, the worlds are diverse
and fun, filled with ancient Central American influences that were a
welcomed change. Even the characters have pizazz to them, each main
character standing out in their own unique way. I in particular liked
the Queen of the underworld, impressed with the blend of partying,
happy, and death all wrapped into one package. The ruler of the
Forgotten Land, was also of unique design, sharp, dark edges in shades
of purple, neon green, and crimson to portray the darkness of his soul. 

What else makes this movie fun? The next aspect is the comedy, which
for the most part is well timed and well delivered. There isn't much
unique writing or witty humor in this movie, but more in how it is
delivered. Countless puns are shouted in ridiculous voices, often
followed by a character face planting into an object. What's even
better is that the comedy is also diverse and spread out instead of
following the typical style of beating a joke to death, the exception
being Joaquin's obsession with mustaches. In addition to the comedy,
the music also brings some thing to the film. Most of the numbers are
covers of famous songs, some done horribly to be funny and others that
are very relevant to the plot. A couple of the original numbers made my
emotions go on a ride, as happiness, sadness, and even love all came
together in the instruments and voice. Now most won't find it as
powerful as Frozen, but for this reviewer it was nice having the music
around the movie, not the opposite way around. Aside from the singing,
the voice acting is incredible, each of the cast capturing the essence
of the stereotypical Mexican character. Now there are too many to write
about so let me pick my three favorites. First is Christina Applegate,
the girl has got sass, spunk, and compassion all at work in her tour
guide character. The girls sells the story as she uses the wooden
puppets, which are represented in the character design, to craft the
tale, keeping the kids in line, and yet showing empathy. Then there was
Zoe Saldana who has the feisty Mexican girl zest that shows everyone
girls don't need men to save them. Her voice is suave and full of
passion, and exactly the buffer needed amidst the rowdy, rough voices
of the cast. Finally the Queen of the Dead was my favorite character,
and Kate del Castillo does a nice job bringing the character to life
with flare, kindness, and the ability to hold her own. 

What can you take away from my sporadic rambling? The Book of Life is
one of the better animated films I've seen in a while. It's Halloween
fun, with colorful worlds and characters that balance out the
predictable and limited tale. I strongly recommend seeing this movie in
theaters, possibly in 3-D. I haven't had this much fun at the movies in
quite some time, and I believe most will enjoy the adventure at hand.
My scores for this film are: 

Animation/Adventure/Comedy: 9.5 Movie Overall: 9.0
<|_=00=_|>
While I have to admit I'm not exactly the greatest Jorge R. Gutierrez
fan (In fact, I strongly disliked his series "El Tigre: The Adventures
of Manny Rivera") I found "The Book of Life" to be a pretty enjoyable
flick, with very good animation (The art style of Jorge R. Gutierrez
looks surprisingly good in the CGI format, with stylish designs and
impressively detailed sceneries.) likable characters and a fun story
which balances very well the comedy, romance and adventure.

The musical aspect was quite good too. Against what I was expecting,
the use of modern songs was moderate, and each one of the musical
moments this movie has serves in some way or another for the plot and
character development, with more than effective results. This aspect,
combined with all the other positive qualities this movie has serve to
make it a very good animated film for the whole family.

There is too much to like about "The Book of Life". For me, it was
definitely a pleasant surprise, and while I'm not entirely sure to
consider this the best animated film of the year 2014, it is definitely
a strong contender for that category, along with "The Lego Movie" and
"How to Train your Dragon 2". Definitely worth- watching.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Book of life is one of the most colorful and original set designs I
have every seen in an animated movie, especially in that is CGI
animation.

This movie toke a real surrealistic style to the character design in
order to pay homage to Mexican culture.

It's a classic fairy tale being told in a story within a story manner,
with a museum tour guide telling a group of kids a fairy tale of three
children who lives will effect the center of the universe, aka Mexico,
when Gods gamble on what type of people they would be as adults.

Although as a semi-musical, the Glee approach in mixing in original
content with contemporary hits kind of lessened the originality of the
flick, but as a whole the movie was quite entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely stunning and for many reasons - from the
characters, to the designs in their clothing, the different lands, the
gods, everything was just so pleasing to look at. 

I felt that the character development was immaculate. As I was
watching, I had become very attached to each character and it was so
easy to be fully immersed in the story. You went through all the
emotions and feelings with the cast, and the voice acting was just so
very believable. 

Diego Luna's singing was captivating as you didn't have to question if
his emotion was real. The music itself was gorgeous and deserves so
much recognition, I especially enjoyed the mariachi renditions, I found
them fun and catchy, some even better than the originals. There is a
modern mix of songs but I have to say it was complimentary to the plot
and was what I would consider a little something for the adults in the
audience. 

The story was something you would think Walt Disney himself would have
given a thumbs up for. The plot and overall story telling was
phenomenal. There was something for everyone - romance, comedy, heart
warming moments, and action as well as adventure all nestled into a
positive message you can take away from it.

In summation, this movie deserves many awards as it embodies the whole
package. It was outstandingly well made and thought out, and the
casting was wonderful. I hope that it receives all the recognition it
deserves. I recommend this film to everyone and I will most definitely
be picking up my copy when it is released. I feel as though this movie
far surpasses any of the most recent Disney films, with Beauty and the
Beast being the only contender. I rate this movie 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
24 October 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester This Morning -
The Book of Life. An unusual animation from the stable of Jorge R
Gutierrez. Joaquin, Maria and Manolo are best friends who are torn
apart when Maria is sent to Europe to calm her wild ways. The two boys
are both in love with her and when she returns, they compete for her
affections unaware their lives are being controlled by the two Lords of
the Underworlds, who have set a wager on the outcome of their love
triangle. La Muerta is the mistress of the beautiful and vibrant Land
of The Remembered, whilst Xibalba is the discontented ruler of the Land
of The Forgotten. The characters were portrayed as wooden puppet style
people, yet when they entered the Land of The Remembered they became
exquisitely carved skeletons. The animation was amazing. Apart from all
the characters in in three lands I found myself avidly watching the
backgrounds. The colours were so vibrant and the details were so
beautifully worked. This film was set around the Mexican Day of The
Dead and the whole feel of it came across as one glorious fiesta.
Another animation triumph and a spectacular musical score to match.
<|_=00=_|>
Many things could have gone wrong with The Book Of Life. This
boisterous, big-hearted animated film is bursting with ideas and
colour, stuffed to the brim with - one suspects - pretty much every
idea that struck writer-director Jorge Gutierrez's fancy. Indeed, the
final film plays very much like the charming but unpolished debut of a
filmmaker who can't quite believe he was lucky enough to get the
attention of producer Guillermo del Toro, and has no intention of
wasting the opportunity in case it never comes around again. As a
result, The Book Of Life practically trembles with too many ideas and
influences, but remains so earnest and inventive that it's easy to
forgive its predictable, overstuffed plot.

In a small Mexican town on the Day Of The Dead, we meet the
protagonists of the story: steadfast, earnest Manolo (voiced by Diego
Luna), who would rather strum a guitar than fight a bull in the
tradition of his forefathers; brash, adventurous Joaquin (Channing
Tatum), who becomes the town hero in trying to avenge the murder of his
father by bandits; and spunky, intelligent Maria (Zoe Saldana),
daughter of the mayor who inevitably wins the hearts of both young men.
The stakes, however, are higher than they could ever imagine: the two
godly rulers of the underworld, La Muerte (Kate del Castillo) and
Xibalba (Ron Perlman), have gambled dominion over each other's lands on
the outcome of the love triangle.

It would be an understatement to say that there's a lot going on in The
Book Of Life. The film covers everything from a mystical medal that
lends invulnerability to anyone who wears it, to a tantalising
love-hate relationship between the two gods, while spiced up with
musical interludes galore. (It's not often that the film's hero will
pause to belt out a soul-searching rendition of Radiohead's Creep, but
that kind of thing happens all the time in The Book Of Life.) Mix it
all up with retellings of Mexican folklore, including visits to the
joyously colourful Land of the Remembered and the ghostly grey Land of
the Forgotten, and the film can be a somewhat frenetic viewing
experience, to say the least.

But, for all that Gutierrez packs his film full of ideas and details,
he also manages to make most of it work very well. The love triangle
may be trite, but there's nevertheless enough heart and humour holding
Manolo, Maria and Joaquin together. Manolo's relationships with his dad
Carlos (Hector Elizondo) and his departed mom Carmen (Ana de la
Reguera) are coloured in with surprising depth as well. It's also
wonderful to see a love triangle centred around a girl who knows her
own mind - and rest assured that Maria speaks it often enough to make a
real impact.

The Book Of Life also doubles as a very welcome riot of imagination and
tradition. Every frame of the film is beautifully and thoughtfully
designed, down to the fact that Manolo seems to have been intricately
crafted out of wood. Moreover, instead of shying away from its Mexican
roots to increase its global marketability, the film firmly embraces
them. This gives Gutierrez room to craft some delicately dark moments
in a graveyard or two, reminding everyone that those who have died can
still live as long as they're remembered by the ones who loved them.
And yet, the film never descends into darkness, instead tapping into
the giddying energy of a fiesta - most memorably in a journey through
the Land of the Remembered - complete with heady bursts of colour and
music.

There's no denying that Gutierrez's film can occasionally be too much
to handle. It's loud and almost cheerfully silly, tossing pop songs and
Mexican folklore into a mix that sometimes doesn't work. But, at its
best, The Book Of Life is like a rambunctious puppy: messy, loud and
insistent, but radiating so much life and charm that it becomes quite
impossible to resist.
