
If you go into this movie as a fan of Katy Perry, you'll love it. If
you don't like her at all, you won't like the movie. Plain and simple.

As a fan of Katy Perry, I juggled with the idea of actually paying
money to see this in the theater because I wouldn't say I'm a hardcore
fan. But I decided I would go to experience the 3D effects. The 3D did
not disappoint. It added a dimension to some of the concert scenes
making the atmosphere fun and bubbly. The concert scenes were mixed in
with behind the scenes looks at what goes into being Katy Perry.

Now if you are not a huge fan of her, you probably won't want to see
the movie. It does give a really personal and at times, tragic, look
into super stardom. And at the end of the movie you might find yourself
liking Katy more.

Overall, it really is a film for fans. Nothing more, nothing less.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some very miserable spiteful reviews on here. They usually
contain such revelations as 'I don't like Katy Perry's music and hated
this movie'. Er... what are you doing watching a film about Katy Perry
if you don't like Katy Perry's music. I know, you came to be bored and
to dislike it and you succeeded. The film contains a very revealing and
surprising story about a genuinely gifted songwriter breaking out of
her strict religious upbringing and rising to the very highest peak
that anybody could possibly wish for. She did it through shear
determination and spirit. She did not get it handed to her. She was in
fact jerked around by all the record companies and almost sunk until,
in one memorable quote, one of the young female execs stole her music
from the company and 'snuck out' with it, so that she would be free to
find success at another label which had people of some imagination and
vision instead of the lame egotistical dicks that she was tied to at
that time. Her message is absolutely positive, absolutely empowering
and liberating for young girls, and the concert footage shows just how
transcendent that message becomes for them at the live shows. She is
not sleazy or nasty or stupid. If I had a daughter I would strongly
approve of her being a 'Katy cat'. I enjoyed every minute of this
documentary. Those who hated it are most likely sad old men or jealous
bitches. I reckon.
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't like Katy Perry then don't go and see this film. If you've
never heard of her, then here is a quick heads up about her and about
this (self-produced) movie. After kicking away from a very religious
upbringing (while retaining her faith), and paying some serious dues,
Perry hit it big with the self-aware and mildly salacious single I
Kissed A Girl and the excellent album it came from, One Of The Boys.
More hits followed as Perry worked her little Minnie Mouse strawberry
flavoured socks off touring the album across the world in a series of
relatively small gigs. The second album (discounting an Unplugged
fill-in), Teenage Dream, enjoyed massive success and spawned 5 (and
counting) major hit singles. Perry toured this album with a major
stadium worldwide tour throughout 2011 featuring a two hour show laden
with dancers, costumes, effects and so on. 3D footage of tour
performance forms the backbone of this film as it tells Perry's
backstory and also provides backstage footage of the tour and also the
disintegration of her relatively brief marriage to bad boy comedian
Russell Brand.

Despite being a 60 year old Englishman with two grown kids - hardly
part of the Perry demographic, and certainly not one of her "KatyCats"
- I have a lot of time for Miss Perry. If nothing else, she is a
grafter, and I respect that highly. She is also a strong individualist
with a huge sense of fun as regards style and presentation. Her songs
are melodic and often lyrically witty and saucy (though with a
regrettable leaning towards crassness in places on the more recent
album). Her vocal style, while limited to essentially a full-throated
pop blare or else falsetto, suits her material.

The concert footage - all of it interrupted by cutaways and voiceovers
- made me wish that a full 3D concert movie was available. I enjoyed
it, but was enormously frustrated at not being able to experience a
single number all the way through.

The non-concert footage is interesting (and one must bear in mind that
the edit was almost certainly under Perry's complete control). I was
already aware of most of the personal history, but it was interesting
to meet family and friends and to understand that she has a strong
support structure in place. The scale of the more recent tour was
impressive, and it was good to see her enthusiastic interaction with
her fans, especially the young ones: not all acts are as available,
even if only in rationed doses. Also interesting and moving were the
sequences shot around the marriage breakdown. Kudos to Perry for
including them (I contrast this with Paul McCartney's concert DVD
immediately preceding his marriage breakup, where Heather Mills has
been edited out completely, while she is all over the previous one).
These sequences don't take sides, they simply present a glimpse of the
impact on Perry towards the end of a major tour, and her
professionalism in the face of difficult personal circumstances.

I suspect that the best stage performances feature a considered
performance persona - a "stage face", if you like - fuelled by talent
and part of the personality of the real person behind the mask.
Sometimes the two meet, and the audience sees the real person through
the stage mask: that is magic, and it happens here.

A film which started out having me go "Oh dear" at the gushing tributes
from young fans left me with increased respect for Perry, and the
feeling that maybe she's not a bad role model for impressionable young
girls.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been tons of concert movies that have come out, but unless
you're a fan they really have a limited audience. With the latest Katy
Perry: Part of Me they do something a bit different than just deliver
another concert film, but instead an inside look at the creation and
execution of Perry's tour, but also a documentary aspect telling about
her career and personal victories and heartaches throughout.

What's good about this film is that you don't have to be a fan of her
music to find it interesting. On one side you get the Behind the Music
vibe of her career wrapped in a big bow of making of the concert,
sprinkled with numerous performances of her on stage. While all this is
entertaining in itself, what really takes this film outside of the norm
is the closer look at her personal life and emotions that she deals
with while struggling to deal with life, marriage, and an unbelievable
tour schedule. Here they never shy away from showing her raw moments of
breaking down from pushing herself just as much as the glamour and fun
of her seemingly magical world she has created around her. It's
refreshing to see a star of her caliber that feels like a down to earth
girl who made it big time and now just happens to be one of the biggest
stars in the world. Of course there will be those that think some of it
is just playing to the camera and who knows, but really who cares. The
entire vibe she has created seems to bring more happiness to the world
and her fans and seeing the amount of work and actual creative control
she has it really impressive for someone still so young.

Like her music or not, this film is so much more than that. This is a
behind the scenes look at the side of music you don't see very often.
Every star has their ways of doing things, but here seeing what Perry,
and obviously many others like her go through both personally and
physically to deliver what the fans clamor for should give you a new
respect for both her and the performers in general. What's really crazy
is that you can't help but enjoy this movie due to the simple fact that
it exhumes joy on every level. It's like you fell off a cloud into a
real life candy land and will bring a smile to your face.

http://www.examiner.com/movie-in-dallas/bobby-blakey
<|_=00=_|>
That documentary is not what I expected. It was trying to make us feel
sorry for the 'difficulties' that Katy has experienced in her life and
then it talks about the success. I have to say that I AM a fan of Katy,
I do like what she does, but, with this, she made me think differently
of her. I hated the first part, when the critics were judging on Katy
comparing it with other artists, such as Rihanna and Lady Gaga, and,
above all, they were trying to state that Katy is better than them, by
revealing some hateful points, which are not true at all. I thought it
would be more of the 'behind the scenes' stuff and emotions, or even
some sort of previously unknown things, but I was wrong, they were
speaking of Katy in such a way that seemed totally flat. They were
mentioning things that we already know, general things. By the way, the
introduction was so long.

Over all I would say that this documentary, a desperate way of winning
more money, is not worth seeing, don't spend your money in that way.
You better skip it! Believe me, it'll do you wrong!
<|_=00=_|>
It's 2011. Katy Perry is embarking on her California Dreams Tour. It
starts off as a traditional inspirational behind the scene concert
movie with a good dose of the story of a young struggling artist. It
introduces her team, her family and her journey so far. The journey is
a little enlightening with some fascinating bits about record labels.
It's all pretty much expected from a concert film introducing an
artist. It's a good first half about her rise. The movie moves into
auto-pilot where her marriage is wonderful, the fans are adoring and
it's hard-working fun. About an hour in, the real world relationship
intrudes and her marriage to Russell Brand falls apart. It gets hinted
at from time to time culminating in the text message. If this is a
regular drama, the climax is Katy waiting to rise up onto the stage.
The movie would end soon after that. Watching Katy breaking down is
like skimming the surface of a very deep pool. There is probably so
much more to the story but we're given only glimpses. In the end, this
is concert movie and not an in-depth documentary. It can't turn into a
deeper analysis for both personal and professional reasons. It's an
opportunity lost. She does show herself to be driven, professional and
a romantic. For fans, that would be more than enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, I actually took the time to watch this. It's exactly what you
would expect. It's simply another touring concert movie to cash in on
the success of a modern icon, but at least we do get to see why people
look up to Katy Perry in such a way. Is it her music? Okay, but lots of
artists have good music. Is it her fashion? I don't think that's it
either. I think people look up to Perry because her personality is just
so likable, and she's faced relatable issues and real life problems,
all of that leading to where she is now. Maybe the movie makes her a
little too likable, but you can see exactly why she's considered such a
role model, and any fan of her music (guilty) will enjoy hearing the
live performances of her songs.

*** / *****
<|_=00=_|>
IF you're a fan of US singer Katy Perry, you'll love this

autobiographical concert movie of her songs and life.

If you don't know anything about her, you'll still enjoy the movie as
it follows the structure of these kind of movies: it has many concert
performances and interviews with her family, friends and fans about
what a great singer and person she is.

The movie follows her on a year-long tour last year to promote her
album, which produced five No. 1 hits, the first for a female artiste.

The movie would have been a normal one but for the way it milks her
divorce from British comedian Russell Brand for all it's worth. Brand
filed for divorce in December 2011 after 14 months of marriage.

It shows what led to the divorce (him wanting to have a baby; she not
being interested in becoming a mum now) and then her finally accepting
the divorce, complete with a breakdown, just before the start of her
concert in Sao Paolo, Brazil. She even contemplates cancelling the
concert.

This will certainly brings tears to many, as it did to me.

I enjoyed her concert shows as they were vibrant, energetic and
colourful. "Thank you for accepting my weirdness," she tells the camera
and her fans.

Her niceness permeates the movie, and you can see why her mostly white
fans adore her, dress like her, mime her lyrics and say how much she
inspires them and gives them hope.

** www.jeffleemovies.com (FB and Twitter)
<|_=00=_|>
Alright so I seen this in the cinemas last year with my brother and my
mom. Of course we ended up watching this unannounced because the film
that we were suppose to watch was on too late and we couldn't stay to
watch it (BTW the film we were suppose to see was ICE AGE 4) but
instead I said to my mom how about Katy Perry's concert movie. She
agreed and we went in to see it. Surprisingly I actually found myself
liking it. Heck I even bought it on DVD after that and I only seen it
once(BTW its not a movie you'd watch over and over again,only now and
again as its a documentary).

So what is it about,well the movie is a music documentary like I
mentioned before about Katy Perry's life and what she does on a day to
day basis touring around the world with her band and also learning her
past mistakes when she married Russell Brand(whom she broke up with and
you can actually see her breaking down in tears because of it. Also we
get to see her 90 something year old grandmother,her parents,AND her
brother and sister.Before the movie even starts we get to see some of
Katy Perry's biggest fans and all her fun costumes that she wears.

Katy Perry herself seemed to be a really nice sweet down to earth young
woman who knows how to please people,even my mom said that she was a
really plain down to earth chick and my 5 year old brother(who was 4 at
the time)also liked it(and hey it was his first PG movie so he might
fancy her who knows right).

So onto my final verdict. If your a Katy Perry fan and you grew up
listening to her music and just like her in general than go and see
it,if you are looking for a movie based film where someone is acting
like Katy Perry then avoid and also if you hate real life films than
avoid it.

Overall I'm giving this a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
I have perhaps an unusual way of picking movies to watch on DVD, I get
whatever my public library buys. This Katy Perry movie is one of them.
I sort of put off watching it, until the day before it was due, because
I didn't really expect to like it.

What a surprise! I really like this documentary movie. It mostly
focuses on the year-long world tour to publicize her music and her most
recent album. But it also has a lot of 'behind-the-scene' stuff, and
includes some family history and the early religious singing she did as
a teen.

Before I saw this movie my main source of information on her came from
her highly publicized quick romance with British actor Russell Brand.
The fact that they were on the verge of splitting up, which actually
began near the end of the film, adds to the realism of the whole
situation.

I came away liking Katy Perry a lot, even though she somewhat of a
task-mistress, in control of her tour, she also comes across as a
gentle and kind person, who sees good in life and in other people.
Perhaps it is because she is such a romantic, that she gave her heart
so easily. Some of the most touching scenes are her interacting with
young fans, some of them with very serious illnesses.

Also, a bonus for me was Shannon Woodward, an actress I admire from her
role as 'Sabrina' in the TV series 'Raising Hope.' I learned she has
been 'best friends' with Katy Perry for a long time, and they are seen
together here in some of the video.

Also a key participant in the tour and the film is Katy's older sister,
and it is easy to see that they are sisters.

All-in-all a fine movie, to me much better than its IMDb rating would
indicate. I am now a Katy Perry fan, of the person, not necessarily the
music.
