
Took my 8-year-old girls. It was cute. They enjoyed it well enough.

But on the car ride home, when I asked about their favorite part, the
best they could come up with was the cow joke (I won't repeat it).

After all the great animated kid's movies of the last 10 years (Nemo,
Shrek, Cars, Frozen, etc), this one is completely forgettable. In a
month or two, my girls won't even remember it. Can't imagine they'll
ever ask to get a DVD or watch it at home.

I'm not sorry I took them, nor was it a waste of money. But we are so
spoiled by such great animated movies that a mediocre one like this
becomes disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of animated films and Jim Parsons, Home felt like something I
would enjoy. When the first Rihanna song started playing, I grew
skeptical. When the next one started, I got tired of it. There's
actually 5 Rihanna songs in the film. 5. Five. Along with Rihanna
playing one of the lead roles. And I should mention that her character
is not singing these songs. She's just listening and dancing to
Rihanna. Sorry, but nope. Home started feeling like a commercial for
some Rihanna album or a very long music video. I don't think I will
remember this film, but if I do it would be for exactly that, and I
would forget the story. 

However, if you're not like me and don't care about such things, the
movie itself is pretty cute.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not the kind of movie that will stay with you forever. I have
seen better animated movies in the past. BUT it's a movie that you will
definitely have a good time watching, laughing and laughing again. I
loved the way this little alien was depicted, using Jim Parsons' ticks
and facial expressions! The concept of the aliens taking different
colors based on their mood was just to die for!

The story was OK and the time it lasted was sufficient (I always root
for longer movies instead of shorter). Overall, it was a cute cute
movie in the end! We laughed a lot, and although we are genre-fanatics
(being in our 30s watching these movies without kids), I think that the
average movie fan will also like it. 

It was time well-spent on a movie and I sincerely recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>
I had not really high expectations on an animated movie, my son would
probably enjoy something like this way more than me I thought. Huge
Fail. The movie was from the beginning great and not only for kids. It
is a feel-good movie for all ages. It is about family , friendship and
that being different or just being yourself is not a bad thing at all.
I found the movie throughout entertaining and very often funny.

The Boov's are just too funny in particular Steve Martin as the voice
of Captain Smek, whose firm leadership of the Boov people is undermined
by his ridiculous fascination with human artifacts such as bubble wrap
. He reminded me partially on King Julien from the Penguins of
Madagascar.

But even if you are not touched by the great story you will certainly
love the Soundtrack. The whole movie was perfectly set and is for me
the best Dreamworks movie since a long time. Take your kids and watch
it on the big screen, they will love it! and you too, guaranteed.

Verdict: A great story meets perfect cast and nothing can go wrong on
this alien/ human road trip movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Assalum Alaykum.

This is a great animation,adventure and comedy movie. I am not
surprised it is number 1 in most countries around the world.

Escaping from their enemy the Gorgs, the Boov have found a new planet
to call home, Earth. Guided by Captain Smek (Steve Martin), they start
their friendly invasion of the planet, relocating the humans to other
parts of the planet while the Boov inhabit their homes.

In this movie the series of incidents are great from the beginning to
the very end and believe me all the scenes are wonderful,the adventure
is pleasing and the comedy is totally entertaining.

The lovely surprise is that the great singer Rihanna acts in it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm 30 years old, but I still enjoy watching animation films very much.
As I heard that there was coming a movie with Jim Parsons & Steve
Martin I knew I had to see it - specially when it was a film from
Dreamworks.

From seeing the trailer I already knew I didn't like the animation
style too much, but I didn't let that bother me watching the movie.
Sadly, B class style was one of the lesser flaws of the film.

Jokes are outdated, movie is full of bubblegum pop music, the
characters are far from interesting and you can't really build a
connection to them. Also, the plot... oh phew. Way too easy. I mean, in
most cases of animation films the plot is more or less predictable -
after all, we're talking about western animations. They have a prodigy,
who doesn't fit in, misses his/her parents and gets a happy ending. But
Home just made my jaws sore from yawning.

It wasn't _all_ bad, I'm sure that many kids will enjoy this, but for
me this was one of Dreamworks' biggest flops. The only actual fun I had
thinking about Jim Parsons and how literally every one of his lines
could've been said in The Big Bang Theory.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie today with the kiddies. I would say it is a really
solid movie. It is the story of an unlikely friendship that forms when
an outcast alien meets a sassy little girl on a mission to find her
mom. I think the story is well thought out and there are many hidden
life "gems" noted within. The theme of judging others sticks out as
well as themes of "being yourself" and learning from your mistakes. It
is a little predictable but I think all adults feel that way about
children's movies. The acting was good and surprisingly Rihanna did
very good (I had my doubts about that). The kids loved it and laughed a
lot. They also enjoyed the music a lot and that is really what it is
all about. I would recommend it for families.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear... if you can get past the first half of the film then you may
just enjoy the second half.

Story (concept) was good but scripts were weak.

Graphics were great.

Humour was desperate.

OK, I love animation movies with my kids, but hey, at 11 and 9, they
were really disappointed and had look forward to this for a while.

As for Rhianna, well, one kinda considered she funded the movie because
her voice over is a leading part (which was good) but the 5 Rhianna
tracks during the film.... a tad OTT!
<|_=00=_|>
This is less of a review of the movie Home than it is a review of what
IMDb has become...infested by fake reviews from fake movie makers. But
hey, we are talking about the movie industry here...why would anyone
involved actually be "real" right? Home is exactly what the less-than-
7 reviews say it is. IMDb still has it's uses but it's rating/review
section is virtually useless now. 

Some movies entertain both the children and the adults...this one will
entertain ONLY the children. The plot is predictable the acting is OK,
the animation is excellent, soft and candy-like...etc. But
unfortunately, it's not very funny at all. Steve Martin's talent is
wasted on the character Captain Smek, Rihanna's character is straight
serious and Jim Parsons' voice, while inherently funny, simply isn't
enough to pull off the very unfunny jokes. The kids might laugh at the
Saturday Morning slapstick but that's about it. 

There is simply no way that any of these glowing 10-star reviews can be
genuine. It's shameful...I'm not sure how much longer I'll be coming to
IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
What a lovely movie! Great for both kids and adults. Rihanna and Jim
parsons do a wonderful job as the leads with also Jennifer Lopez and
Steve Martin playing great supporting characters. All and all it's a
good movie to see with the whole family. Also it's amazing to finally
see a woman of color be the lead character in a dream works movie.
Please don't give this movie a pass for it tells a great story of how
two completely different characters from two different worlds seem to
not fit in where they are from but somehow they both find friendship
with each other. It's a great story about trying to find your place and
somewhere where you feel at home. Hope everyone watches it and enjoys
it as much as I did! (:
