
I am really surprised at all of the negative reviews here. But then I
remember, this is IMDb. Enough said there. I enjoyed this movie very
much. I don't think it was anything more than the story of one woman
trying to find a way to move forward. This movie is not a political
statement about feminism. This is ONE woman's story of regret, healing,
and ultimately about forgiving herself so that she could move forward.
Is this movie boring? Only if you need CGI and superheroes to call it
"exciting." Do people do really adventurous things like taking off
alone on a thousand mile trek on foot? Yeah, they do. And most of them
actually survive. People have been surviving for thousands of years by
striking out on their own without any previous experience or
"training." Many years ago I did something very similar to what this
woman did in the Sierra Nevadas. Looking back now I know I must have
been crazy to do something so unplanned. But it was something I felt I
had to do and was also stemmed from a tragic loss. I thought Reese was
very believable in this role. The constant flashbacks that seemed to
bother all the other reviewers did not bother me in the least. The
flashbacks were the unfolding of her life taken in little pieces and in
sync with the memories that were ignited within her on her journey. So
contrary to the other reviewers, I liked this movie! The soundtrack was
right on target with what was happening in each scene. The scenery was
stunning, but of course it would be if you've ever been in the area. On
foot. I happily gave this movie a rating of 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great movie and exactly what I needed! I know from now on to
not listen to most of the reviews on here at all. They are the opposite
of good!? This was along the lines of Into The Wild, not as good but
not bad at all and worth watching. Well done! This could be called a
chick flick for real women who want substance, Strength and
encouragement from the female in the role. When the world gets to much
and is sucking your life away- Get the heck out and walk, climb a
mountain , ride a horse ! Push the boundaries of what you think you are
capable of and learn! I cried , it was good. I didn't know anything
about it until I watched it. I have been coming to IMDb to pick movies
with good ratings and people giving good reviews. Only to be
disappointed time and again. If you like the Idea of the film , you
will likely enjoy it as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
A wonderful performance from Reese Witherspoon anchors this very good
film about a troubled young woman who embarks on a miles-long hike as a
sort of personal therapy to deal with the downward spiral of her life
in the wake of her mother's (Laura Dern) death. Witherspoon reminds
everyone what a good actress she is; I haven't been this impressed by
her as an actress since "Election" way back in 1999 (and that includes
her overrated Oscar-winning performance in "Walk the Line"). And it's
nice to see Laura Dern again, who's popped up here and there over the
past many years but has mostly been absent from the movie scene. The
movie's editor deftly integrates flashbacks of Dern and Witherspoon
together with the character's hike through the wild, and avoids the
monotony that usually plagues films when structured this way.

One of the minor miracles of "Wild" is how subtly it explores not just
the trials and dangers one would encounter in such a hike, but
specifically how those trials and dangers are heightened, or at least
are of a different nature, for a woman. Only once in the film is it
overtly addressed, but before that scene late in the film, the director
and Witherspoon have already conveyed without words how perilous such
an adventure could be for a young woman, for whom every encounter with
a strange man carries with it the possibility of sexual predation, even
if it doesn't materialize (which, the film acknowledges, in most cases
it doesn't). At the same time, the film restores one's faith a little
bit in humanity, suggesting that most people are decent and kind and
willing to help, no strings attached.

Witherspoon and Dern were both justly Oscar nominated for their
performances, and the gorgeous Pacific West scenery deserved an award
of its own.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
I am the daughter of a mother who recently passed away from lung
cancer. She never smoked, like the protagonist mother. I cried many
times during this movie. It made me think a lot because like the lead
character, i often ruminate over the past; i have a lot of flashbacks
and memories of my mother keep replaying in my head., and the things
she said to me will forever echo in my brain. In terms of the sex and
the drug taking, i think Resse did very well in portraying the daughter
who completely lost herself and the desire to live with the loss of her
mother. I also grew up in a single household and my mother and I were
always together, our identity are intertwined; it was us against the
world. Losing our mother is like losing more than life itself, I am
still finding myself lost and struggling to find meaning in life. It is
a constant struggle to not give up and give into self destruction and I
am very thankful that the protagonist captured this feeling very well.

Like the life of a lot of people, this movie is about the journey we
take. Its not about the destination or achieving a particular purpose.
It is deeply realistic, and i am glad it doesn't lecture or give a
moral lesson on how we should be ,or a happy ending because we don't
always get that in life. Life is ugly and it doesn't always end in
happiness and things don't always happen for a reason good people do
not always get a good ending and normal people can do bad things to
themselves and to toh others due to pain brought on by unbearable
grief. This movie inspires me to maybe run a marathon.

Walking, hiding and running are very meditative and its like a metaphor
for life, no matter what happened, all we can do is keep walking.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. 

My favorite part about this movie is the idea - being true to ones
feelings, being destroyed by pain to the point of loosing oneself and
having the strength to finding it again; having the strength and
incredible will to let go and move on. I find it deep and insightful.

I also like the presentation of this idea - in a simple, very honest
way. That's why I think, the symbolism they used fits in so well, even
though it's a bit obvious - the heavy bag she carries at the beginning
of the journey, bleeding feet, getting new shoes that fit, throwing up
(as letting all the bad things out) and coming to the gods bridge. All
of these are classic, obvious symbols, which are in tune with the
simpleness of the presentation of the idea. 

This brings me to another point I like about this movie, how it
contrasts this very simple plot and very simple presentation to very
complicated 'things' inside the main character. I also have to mention
the script, because its loooong time since I have seen/heard such a
good script - communicating the drama of one's life without overdoing
it. 

And OK, there are some factual errors in this movie, but they are not
so important and Witherspoon did a great job as an actress and a
producer. For me it's her best movie so far. 

So to sum it up - strong drama, in simple, honest presentation,
inspiring to return to your good self, no matter what may happen. The
way we deal with our feelings, is the way we leave.
<|_=00=_|>
Your life will most likely determine whether or not you like this film,
whether or not it moves you.

I read the book and was not sure how they were going to make such an
introspective novel into a movie but they did a pretty good job. My
group of friends had mixed reactions, some of us were deeply moved
(myself included) some where wondering why we were...

I felt the way her story was portrayed in flashbacks was very effective
and about the only way to tell this story. It can never be as deep as
the emotions in the book and it had to skim over a lot but still, for
me and others I was with it was very powerful.

On a superficial side note... I wish she had looked dirtier. Her hair
and clothes always looked too clean for what she was doing with very
minimal hygiene.
<|_=00=_|>
Wild has a really intriguing premise, the idea of a solo hike does it
for me but I was wary that the movie lasted over 100min. What could
possibly be entertaining about a women hiking alone from the Mexican
border to the Canadian Border? As it turns out quite a lot.

At first, it's hard to understand Cheryl, she definitely does not
strike you as a someone who could do this. She bit off more than she
can shew, it's clearly naive of her. But as Cheryl is struggling on her
hike flashbacks of her life before the Pacific Crest Trails are
peppered throughout the movie and like anyone you're getting to know
she starts to make sense. You get to understand what she's been
through, who she is, and what motivated her to do this. It's a
challenge that she brought on herself for herself, something she
needed.

And just like that a 115 minutes passes, during which you were taken on
physical and soul searching journey with amazing landscapes, and a
flawed but strong woman. Reese Witherspoon carries that film
beautifully, she layered her performance with sensibility and a quiet
strength that suited the character. I didn't totally relate to Cheryl
but I wasn't completely impervious to her ordeal, I also have dreams
and life-goals to achieve.

On a side note, it was recently pointed out to me I had never seen Wild
as the female lead version of Into The Wild. I've never finished Sean
Penn & Emile Hirsh's hiking movie but from what I remember Into The
Wild was much more wild and raw the dude wasn't on a hiking trail but
in the wilderness. These two movies only compare in the drives these
two characters have to undertake their journey.

Wild is a beautiful movie about personal growth and living in one's
truth. @wornoutspines
<|_=00=_|>
A story of redemption heavy on pain and short on redemption. Reese
Witherspoon produces and stars in this story of a woman whose
breathtakingly self-destructive behavior--drugs, adultery, degrading
sexual encounters, abortion--has brought about a crisis that even she
can no longer ignore. Desperate to break the pattern of her life, she
decides to set out on a 1000 mile hike of the Pacific Crest trail,
despite having little or no experience with backpacking. From her vivid
memories of her past misbehavior, we see that she is slowly coming to
accept responsibility for her past mistakes, and thereby moving beyond
them. 

But the viewer gets very little payoff for this long slog through her
lurid past. While she manages to drag herself back to a state of
normalcy, she makes no great spiritual revelations during her journey.
Her hike ends underwhelmingly at the Bridge of the Gods on the
Oregon-Washington border. She and the movie seem to understand that
there should be some greater significance to that, but they don't know
what it might be. And contrary to other reviews, the scenery in the
movie isn't "gorgeous," but for the Pacific Crest trail is quite
ordinary. It's a great mystery that the movie makers didn't at least
take advantage of that aspect of the story to treat the viewers to some
of the scenery of the West.

In the end, there isn't enough compensation for the graphic and
disturbing imagery that the movie makes its viewers endure, making this
movie a missed opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>
Fans of Cheryl Strayed likely come away from this movie feeling
reasonably content with the outcome. There's no challenge to the end
product or hope for anything more. Reese Witherspoon is a pretty
personification that many can put their hopes and dreams and selves
into and flutter away to the pretty pictures of mountains for a few
fleeting moments in their day. For the rest of us, however, the movie
is quite unmemorable and intangible. If anything, we simply watch
Strayed (Witherspoon) walk around like an entitled, annoyed bitch for
two hours, getting into trouble, doing stupid things, hurting anyone
close to her, and then crying over spill milk again and again. And all
along there's this audacious overtone telling us we should be feeling
sorry for Strayed and her struggles give me a break.

It's clear Jean-Marc Vallee wanted to produce an Oscar-season prospect,
not an accurate or truly vulnerable adaptation. Coming off his success
with Dallas Buyers Club, Vallee wanted to shift momentum to a prettier
landscape and fill in the rest with exhausting flashbacks for back
story. I can visualize what he was aiming for, and it could have been a
shoe-in for best picture or certainly best actress. Unfortunately the
end product missed the target by thousands of miles. Wild is tiresome,
disjointed and certainly not Oscar-worthy material. The big difference
between the two films is that Dallas was based on a tremendous story,
one of transformation and growth, which is why it resonated so well
with audiences. Wild is not a tremendous story, not even a good one,
and simply takes the same approach as another vain diatribe, "Eat Pray
Love." Essentially, a struggling female writer feels trapped in her
life and decides to try something extreme, get herself out of this rut
and find purpose (then shockingly decides to write a book about it and
capitalize off all the people who want to do the same. CRAZY!). I won't
argue that Strayed didn't have a rough go at it. With the death of her
mother, her rotten coping mechanisms through anonymous sex and heroin
use, the consequent failure of her marriage and the downward spiral of
her life, Strayed was headed nowhere before she found the path of the
PCT. But that does not excuse how ego-driven and basic Wild is (and is
told).

Strayed is the ugliest character in the story. Aside from a terrible
voice-over at the end (seriously, WTF was that?), Strayed truly does
not change physically, emotionally or in her relationships from
beginning to end. Yet somehow the film goes out of its way to make her
a hero, innocent and a victim in this crazy world around her. We see
this when all the rangers, hikers, townsfolk, even customers at the
diner she's waiting at all want to rape her or take advantage.
Apparently every man in the 90s was absolutely horrible (even the
husband she was cheating on who drove across the country to fetch her
out of a drug den and save her life. Hrm). The most ironic part is how
Strayed described in the book that she wanted to sleep with nearly
every man that crossed her path (including most men on the trail), and
at times she said she had to hold herself back. And that's the worst
part of Wild, the blatant, phony feminist propaganda. Feminism is so
trendy in pop culture right now that everyone is claiming they're a
part of the cause. But it's a word that is completely misappropriated
and misused, especially by quite terrible role models such as Cheryl
Strayed. She is a woman who wants to desperately be considered a
feminist that she adjusts her story to justify her mistakes, even
throwing in the line, "I am a feminist," into the movie to frantically
convince us. But she's not. Being a selfish, inconsiderate asshole
doesn't make you a feminist or a martyr. It makes you a selfish,
inconsiderate asshole, and not a person the viewer should want to feel
compassion for.

To be honest, one of the best parts of the book was the relationships
and perspectives of others who Strayed came across on the trail. We got
to hear what they were going through, not just getting hit over the
head by a whiny Witherspoon. Yet the theatrical version (again) only
focuses on Cheryl and her theoretical struggle with life (i.e.
herself). We totally skip over all the other people who in my opinion
were the 'therapists' and friends who helped Cheryl to grow and guide
her change into a new woman and move beyond her horrible past.

If the story is intended to be one about personal growth and finding
oneself, then there is none of that here in this adaptation. For a
15-minute montage Reese is bitching and moaning about hiking and her
life, then suddenly we're at the end of the trek and she's telling us
about how happy-ever-after things are going to be in the future. It was
like Vallee just said, "I'm over it," and decided to end the terrible
experiment. By the end of this movie I find myself really caring less
about Strayed (even distrusting her more since she signed off on this
thing), and I'm insulted by her story and embarrassed that so many
embrace her and what she did as some sort of feminist martyrdom. I
think Strayed was a stupid girl who did stupid things, and out of sheer
blonde luck was able to survive a trek on her own. Even more luck, she
was able to turn that mediocre story into millions of dollars in her
pocket. So good for her. It's not a terrible movie, just a terrible
story about a terrible person who wants us all to believe she's a
saint. I don't buy it, and unfortunately I rented the movie and bought
the book.
<|_=00=_|>
Realistic performance of Reese Witherspoon. An history about the life
as it is. A movie to watch and review in your mind later. I like drama
movies that you suffer as you are watching but give you things to think
later, this is this type of movie. Wild is a one-character movie but
the little pieces of the secondary characters are so well introduced
that allows to introduce drama, fear, suspense and romanticism to the
history. If I need to say something wrong about the movie is that in
some passages there is lack of continuity and feels as if the movie was
longer at the beginning and the director need to cut it to do it
shorter.
