
I am not speaking frivolously when I say that overall, although
produced with a fraction of the budget, this is a much better film than
the fourth Bourne.

Specifically: 

* great opener -- film opens with a dramatic situation that immediately
grabs the viewers' attention. You have "connection" from the getgo.

* great script --- many layers and twists. Clever dialog. (At one point
the bad guys gloat about how they are manipulating "the hashtags" --
thereby dissing an entire generation. Another line of dialog refers to
the use of "action and reaction" to achieve their end -- which is a
very sophisticated dig at how politics are managed today.) 

* Director writer Watkins know to keep things interesting, you are
never bored.

* Elba is nothing short of awesome. Other reviewers are saying he could
be a major international action figure. Agree! 

Solid entertainment, does not take the viewer for granted, and the
clever story keeps you hooked.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprised this isn't at least in the 7's on here. Elba is excellent, no
cheesy crap Bond esque love interests. Just a proper thriller with some
great twists and decent action sequences. Some comical moments in a non
Marvel universe cheesy way. 

Nothing incredibly new with the plot, but it does keep you interested
for the duration. The end hints at a sequel, which could be
interesting.

If you like a good action / thriller - this is the best I've seen in a
long while. Not quite as good as the old Bournes, but certainly better
than recent Bonds.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever wanted to know what happens when you mix 24, Bourne, Die Hard III,
and Luther on a tight budget, and then you spice it all with a little
Luc Besson? Then you have your answer right here.

It's a fast paced, no-nonsense action spy thriller, without a single
piece of originality. But it manages to present all the borrowed bits
and pieces in a way, to deliver a very entertaining experience.

The main character is almost a carbon copy of the title character in
Luther, so Elba naturally revels in the role. They even managed to
include one of my favorite lines from Luther, the little thieves. Which
is funny since the second main character is actually a thief in this.
Self irony maybe? The movie never slows down, not for a minute. I
haven't seen anything like it for quite some time. There is less
Neutral Gear in here, than in Luc Bessson's original Taxi.

Of course you shouldn't expect a masterpiece. The characters are all
shallow, and the story is predictable. It doesn't even try to be
clever, it just gives you everything at face value.
<|_=00=_|>
In recent years, Idris Elba has been mentioned as a possible candidate
to play James Bond, but after watching Bastille Day, I think that the
role of Jack Bauer would suit him better. What that means is that
Bastille Day feels like an extended episode of 24, with echoes of Die
Hard and a weak political message to simulate relevance. Nevertheless,
I found it an entertaining film, with an interesting screenplay full of
complications for the main character to overcome in order to obtain
information which will take him to the terrorist group which planted a
bomb. But, was it really a terrorist group? The answer is complicated,
and that's the only thing Bastille Day has in its favor in order to be
differentiated from uncountable action movies with a similar style and
manufacture. And we also have Elba, who displays conviction and an
imposing presence in the leading role, helping us to overcome the
improbable situations in which his character gets constantly involved,
as well as the forced coincidences implemented by the screenplay to
ease or obstruct his mission. The performances from the rest of the
cast are adequate, and Bastille Day makes a good use of the Parisian
locations, adding a European taste to season the Hollywood formulas
exploited without any shame. On the other hand, I don't see the sense
of hiring an English and a Scottish actor (Elba and Richard Madden,
respectively) to play North American characters. It would have been
better to employ European agencies, instead of the worn-out presence of
the CIA and its well-known intrusions in foreign territory. But,
well... Bastille Day is co-produced by Amazon, so I comprehend the
necessity of reinforcing the idea of the United States as a worldwide
police which doesn't obey rules, but obtains results. In conclusion, it
isn't a very memorable experience, but I can give a moderate
recommendation to Bastille Day as a vacuous entertainment with the
adequate doses of action and suspense to justify the investment of our
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm torn between a 6 and 7 for this film. This has everything a good
thriller should have, but nothing notably unique about the film or the
way it's done past the protagonists and some of the cinematography.

The film is a spiral into chaos and the characters are very likable,
forming an unlikely friendship between a thief and a CIA agent. Idris
Elba and Richard Madden show off some great acting that really drives
the film, with the dialogue between the two easily being my favourite
part of the film. The directing is great, too, with a riveting chase
sequence that looks and feels exciting and some lovely cinematography
in France.

The premise isn't anything amazing, but throwing a sly, witty pocket
thief into the mix of what would be an ordinary every-year thriller is
what drives the film and makes it anything worth noting. If you're
going to see this film for any reason, it should be for the two leads.
Bastille Day is nothing unique, but it's definitely a good film if
you're in the mood for a thriller (however I'd recommend Eye in the Sky
over this). This is a film for people that are into thrillers and fun
character interaction.
<|_=00=_|>
This film (unfortunately) is most famous because it was set to come out
at the same time as a Islamic terrorist attack in France, and one of
the reasons I waited a while to watch this film was because I was wary
of how Muslims would be portrayed in it etc. Let me without spoilers
tell you this film is almost entirely unpolitical, with the 'Islamic
threat' so far down the radar it can't even be said to be a theme.

Now on to the film! Do you like Idris Elba? If you don't, stop reading
this review and never watch this film. This is his film. He plays a
bad-ass CIA agent (there is an irony of a British actor playing a CIA
man stationed in France) who does not like to follow rules, and he is
on the trail of a master pick pocket (Richard Madden) who gets wrapped
up in a plot to blow up France. Cliché, yes, but the film does avoid
some obvious ones, surprising pleasantly at some points.

Elba is menacing, cool and always fantastic, and all of his co-stars
pull their weight, but none are particularly likable, and they just
have very little chemistry together. But, this is an action, thriller,
so who really cares about that. The action is solid, but not mind
blowing. The balance between action and thriller is about right, and
the director does not get distracted with too many side characters or
plots.

This is about as standard a movie as you can get, with the only real
plus being Elba. He needs to do more action movies, he needs to be the
next Bond. 6.5, but IMDb won't let me give it that score so I bump to a
7 on Elba's performance!
<|_=00=_|>
I think the 6 rating is not deserved, better than other action movies
with higher ratings.

I was on my seat for most of the film. There wasn't too many boring
parts as the movie was fast paced. It was interesting to see Madden who
is from Game of Thrones, he looked familiar but I didn't realise it was
him until after the film

The acting was good by Idris, no typical annoying clichés like: ->
doing this for a relative -> 30 trained people shooting, but no one can
hit a target. -> love interest to tap into a different demographic.

I think could have been a 10, if the movie had a less predictable
ending.
<|_=00=_|>
There isn't much of anything to this movie, other than a lot of fast
action, with the usual "collateral damage." Idris Elba is an actual
actor, but he has no material to act with here. So, for that matter, is
Thierry Godard, one of the leads in the French TV series Un Village
français, but here he gets nothing at all.

Every now and then there are allusions to current politics in French -
the National Front, etc. - but they don't go anywhere, and are not
explained.

Not much is done with the Paris setting. No pleasant scenes in the
Eiffel Tower restaurants, or along the banks of the Seine, etc.

There is no point in summarizing the plot, such as it is, because it's
not very interesting. Suffice it to say that, when all is said and
done, this is actually about an impossible bank holdup.

If you decide to watch this movie - and I can't imagine why you would -
watch it late at night when your mind has shut down and doesn't catch
all the holes in the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
And no I'm not talking about a river. The charisma and screen presence
Idris Elba projects is amazing. He can throw shades, have a stare-down
and just generally make you do things without saying much. If someone
like this is on the hunt to get you ... well you better run fast. But
this is not just a chase movie. This has unfortunately some roots in
reality with its terrorist attack theme.

This is something that is hard to stomach and might be too much for
some to view, in light of things that did happen in Paris or anywhere
else in the world for that matter. But if you can blend that out and
just accept this as entertainment and a movie, you will get a
suspenseful story, that is intriguing and decent enough to watch
<|_=00=_|>
The film is quite good. I just randomly picked it up to watch and it
was a good watch. Not a single boring moment. Very good paced. Actors
were good and believable. I loved the mixture of English and French. I
loved the scenes of Paris as it is my favorite city and I just returned
from there last week.

I am not familiar with the mail role and that Afro American actor, but
he was really good. Next James Bond?! hahaha I was trying and trying to
remember where this 'thief' is familiar from and then I read here:
Games of Thrones! Of course ... He was great too and especially coz
this is the first ever film with him that I watched.

Of course, French are the ones who are bad here and tried to solve
their problems with Muslim population in a very terrible way. And of
course, it is Americans who will save the day. I wonder how would they
react if anyone makes a movie about French ( or any other nation)
saving Black lives in America and doing that undercover exposing
deliberate acts of terrorist by the CIA ( like on 9/11 ). Ah, yes, I
forgot ... there are no problems in America. 

All in all, for what it is, it is a great thriller.
