
This is the first review I've ever written ever. I don't subscribe to
movie reviews--at all. I actually enjoy movies. It seems to me that by
in large reviewers just don't like movies. Not the intelligent
reviewers anyway. They seem to be more concerned with how they look to
their readers, pretending they know something about film. Reviewers are
writers who want to be something else, filmmakers perhaps, and find it
incredibly trendy and smart to disassemble and deconstruct the hard
work of others; and to hate entertainment. They all seem to have this
idea that they know better and I have little time for their self
righteous, self important, pretentious bullshit thinly disguised as
some sort of public service. Heads up: it does no one a service to be
condescending or insulting. 

With that said I will now step off of MY self righteous soap box and
say that White House Down is a damned good time time with excellent
shots of DC (making it look like an attractive, interesting place to be
as opposed to the hot and smelly dumpster it actually is...seriously,
the place smells like a dumpster), in your face action, fine
performances-- Jamie Foxx is pretty cool as the leader of the free
world--a bad guy who you just can't wait to watch die (there are
several bad guys in this movie, so I'm not counting that as a spoiler),
and pretty awesome hero in John Kale.

Now the movie gets a little long which is only an issue if you're a
smoker like me, by the middle of the third act I was craving pretty
hard, and there's some dumb lines of dialogue during one of the action
sequences that didn't seem to fit the characters, but whatever.

White House Down is a fun and intense action movie that I would gladly
see again. 8 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I'll never fully understand why people flock to films like "Iron Man
I-III" and then completely ignore a fun action film like "White House
Down". After reading so many bad reviews, I started watching Emmerich's
latest noise-opera only because I wanted to get tired enough to go to
bed. I had planned to watch the first 5 minutes and to then fast
forward through the rest of the film and have a quick look at the
expensive special effects. Never did I expect to actually enjoy myself
- and yet I did. In fact, I enjoyed myself so much that I couldn't stop
watching for the entire 2 hours, and I didn't even get up to go to the
bathroom. Right from the start I realized that this movie doesn't take
itself too seriously and that this is Emmerich having fun (destroying
the White House - if you count freezing it - for the fourth time). But
despite all the silliness and the tongue-in-cheek moments, this is a
suspenseful ride which never lets up and kept me hooked the entire
time. There are quite a few unexpected twists and turns along the way,
and the wonderful supporting cast (James Woods, Richard Jenkins and
Jason Clarke, to name a few) keep even the most clichéd characters fun
and interesting. So my verdict: Great, silly, cheesy action film!
Suspend your disbelief and you will have one hell of a good time. I
rate it 7 out of 10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
Now, this seemed like the perfect summer blockbuster. Two huge stars,
an expensive budget and a director with a knack for action. What could
go wrong? By the end of it, instead of what could go wrong, you'll be
asking yourself what went right. The answer....barely anything. White
House Down is not only dumb, it is downright idiotic. The plot is
preposterous, the action sequences sub par and the acting is atrocious.
Channing Tatum does his best Bruce Willis impression while Jamie Foxx
turns in the worst performance of his career. The supporting cast lead
by Maggie Gyllenhaal saves the terrible leads and are the sole reason I
am not giving this a 1. Overall, this film is loud, long and boring, so
much so, I can't imagine any adult with a functioning brain to enjoy
this. I highly recommend to stay away from this stinker. If you want a
great action film featuring the destruction of the White House, tune
into Olympus Has Fallen.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't that eager to watch this movie, because I had seen some clips
on TV shows reviewing it, and read reviews in newspapers...and none of
them were very positive.

But on a rainy Sunday night, nothing else to do...i thought to
myself...why not !? Have an open mind and go and see it.

And i must say I was pleasantly surprised !!! YES every normal thinking
adult must know that the things you see in this movie are outrageous
and simply couldn't ever happen that way. But so is most of what
happens in any Bond movie ! So just forget about that part of it
all...and decide if the movie is entertaining, and i thought it was ! 

Channing Tatum, James Woods, Maggie Gyllenhaal and little Joey King did
really good work ! The only negative for me in this movie was Jamie
Foxx, and I don't even know what it was that bothered me about him in
this movie, but I just didn't think he was the best choice for that
part !
<|_=00=_|>
I will start with the pros. This movie is packed with excitement,
action, and CGI effects - almost start to finish. Now the cons: a
blatant ripoff of both Die Hard and Olympus Has Fallen (which was a
blatant ripoff of Die Hard); the most implausible story EVER; the
absolute worst acting EVER with Jamie Foxx taking the lead. This movie
should be reason enough to finally burn that guy's SAG card once and
for all. And Channing Tatum, whom I normally like, was a close second.
In fact, the only actor to give a good performance was the little girl
who played Tatum's daughter.

Believe the reviews you read here. They are not exaggerations. If you
must watch this, wait for Redbox!
<|_=00=_|>
Pure cliché . Makers of this movie must be so low level . Second movie
with almost same story this year . Same plans , missiles , codes . The
makers of this movie are so naive , repeating all usual things again
and again . As usual , someone is there or gets there by accident ,
which is hero . Terrorist take down whole place . Hero is the only one
who can fight back without dying ,where as other trained guards just
dying easily . Then nuclear missiles time arrives . Then national
counter attack , intending to blow all place even with hostages or
civilians . And final episode as always to stop counter attack at last
seconds . Aren't you tired of the same none sense scripts ?!
<|_=00=_|>
It is inevitable that White House Down be compared to Olympus Has
Fallen. Unfortunately, it compares poorly from the title on down.

The special effects lack the realism of OHF.

The action sequences are disjointed and downright goofy at times.

The bad guys are cartoonish and you get no sense of satisfaction when
they are put down.

The plot is too complicated by half and really is not relevant to the
action.

The movie ends with a whimper and a SNL quality perp walk of the
character who is ultimately responsible for all the carnage.

But the worst thing is the crude, amateurish and transparent Left vs.
Right political message in which it drapes all the other sub par
elements. It is a Progressive's wet dream that really couldn't be any
more wacko if you gathered 100 of Huffington Posts's top Super Users in
a room festooned pictures of Dick Cheney and GWB, fed them mushrooms,
and asked them to come up with the motivation for the bad guys.

But Good Guys shooting bad guys is always good and so are explosions.
If you ignore the channeling of Nancy Pelosi, then you might get your
money's worth at a matinée showing.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me just begin by saying, this movie was worth the price of my
ticket. But that might just be because I got my ticket at 50% off.

The world has seen millions of movies where USA comes under attack.
This was probably just a rehash of every single one of those movies.
There was nothing fresh, or new; there was no wow factor. Simply put,
the producers probably just took a bunch of pre-molded "Lego blocks"
that had already been overused in every other action movie, threw them
all together, made a new movie, and called it "White House Down".

But that's not to say this movie was all bad. The undeniable chemistry
between Tatum and Foxx was like a consolation for a 99.9% cliché
storyline. The light humor between the two might have just given the
audience a couple of time-outs from the heart-thumping moments during
the movie's intense sequences, making the somewhat draggy, long-winded
two-hour film a little easier to sit through. But as mentioned, a
million clichés thrown together made the storyline absolutely
predictable, so don't expect any twists.

In a nutshell, it's just a mashup of a whole series of music hits, in
movie form. But oh well, at least the mashup was decently done.
<|_=00=_|>
Olympus Has Fallen was a far better movie. I'm tired of seeing the
nuclear football being used over and over again in films. The president
was immature and idiotic. When the president of the united states says
"hands off my Jordan's!", something is wrong. The writing was
amateurish and honestly - if you don't think it was propaganda,
democrat or republican, you don't know anything about politics. What
are the messages: We should get all our troops out of the middle east
Republicans are crazy terrorists who don't want peace All it takes is a
nice guy who is willing to listen to the middle east, and all our
conflicts can be solved. Also, the acting of that little girl was
terrible. I kept hoping she'd get killed... no such luck.
<|_=00=_|>
Rating this as 1 out of 10 (awful) doesn't really reflect just how poor
this film actually is. I understand that this is Summer blockbuster
patriotism but this trash is an insult to the eyes, from the bad acting
to the script... who would say these things. 

Rather like 24 (which is a good watch) can I suggest that the
Government departments and agencies beef up their recruitment
procedures because it seems that they regularly employ traitors and
never properly check the background of people who suddenly start
working in Government buildings.

One positive is that the bad guys gradually lose their ability to shoot
accurately as the film progresses. At the outset, they are slick and
basically kill everyone with dead-eye precision but later on they
become standard 'can't hit a barn door' baddies who attended the
university of bad guys never win..

2 hrs lost forever...
