
Weird that so many people did not like this movie. I suppose if you had
high expectations, you would be let down, but other than that, it was a
thoroughly enjoyable well constructed comedy. At least a 7.2

The punch lines and comedy came off as low key and sort of
anti-climactic, but I thought that gave it a greater sense of realism.
I saw the IMDb ratings, and set my expectations low, and then looked
for the redeeming qualities of the film, sometimes that's all it takes
to get more out of it than the high-expectation crowd.

The main character suffers one realistic defeat after another, and
sometimes that's how life goes. That sense of exhaustion from trying
was clearly pervasive throughout the film, but the main character keeps
chugging along and does not give in to the adversity he faces. To me,
it created a compelling every day sort of comedy that was accessible
and portrayed by fun characters.

There is some gratuitous nudity & lewdness that detracts in some ways
from the film, but being thick skinned, it really did not bother me at
all. Bullying is a surface theme, but really it's "being there" for
your fiends and family that is the real message and the bullying is
sort of mentioned as a mechanism to show adversity and rising above it
with the people we love. What's not to like about that? Bunch of "nose
in the air" stiffs didn't get it, so what. 

Very watchable "b" comedy that does not try and over-achieve. Good
movie for a quiet evening where you don't want to think too much.
Anyone can highbrow this film and put it down, but it has tangible
qualities that do not make it and idiotic "dumb & dumber" type film.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfinished Business was a welcome surprise. Based on what I had read
about it, I was prepared to leave the theatre underwhelmed and
disappointed. That did not happen, though.

Vince Vaughn and Tom Wilkinson were amusing in their roles and they
seemed to get things more right than wrong when it came to delivery and
to timing. The character of their simple sidekick was more than a bit
annoying, but it was good to see that the characters played by Vaughn
and Wilkinson cut him a lot of slack. In short, this is a better movie
than many IMDb amateur reviewers would have you believe. 

I found myself chuckling more than a few times, laughing at their
antics and the absurdity of it all. This was a charming and amusing
film in the end. If I were to guess, then some of the reviewers here
may have felt discomfort over the depictions of drinking, drug use, and
sexuality in this picture. So it goes. Recommended viewing for the
non-church going set.
<|_=00=_|>
I love gratuitousness in comedies. Movies like Harold & Kumar push the
envelope so far as to what's appropriate to laugh at that it just
becomes absurdly entertaining. I also love comedy in my comedies.
Sadly, Vince Vaughn's latest alleged comedy Unfinished Business has all
the gratuitousness you could ever want, but falls short on the funny.

It is intermittently amusing. And by that I mean a few moments make you
smile, chuckle even, due to the ridiculousness of the situation they're
in. The cast - Vince Vaughn, Dave Franco, and Tom Wilkinson - are fine.
Nick Frost also has a small role, which should have been fleshed out
because he has the most entertaining parts of the movie. The problem is
the material just isn't good. The writing is choppy, uneven, and
distractingly terrible. It would've been better for the cast to improv
for an hour-and-a-half, that would at least be entertaining. The story
here tries to tie together an explicit raunchy comedy with a homely
family drama and a vain attempt at a business narrative that revolves
completely around "the handshake." It just makes no sense, from a
cohesion standpoint and a movie-making standpoint - how on earth was
this green-lit? Who was the audience for this? Certainly not kids,
definitely not adults. Who thought this was a good idea?

It's a shame because I really like Vince Vaughn. He is fine in the
movie, as is the rest of the cast, but they have absolutely nothing to
work with. Throwing all the boobs and penises in the world on screen
does not make a good comedy. At the end of the day, Unfinished Business
should have been left unfinished.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to all the negative news about this comedy. It's not that
bad. This comedy is funny in parts and the cast is well chosen. The
small start up vs established corporation is quite relevant and amusing
today. The team is funny with the retirement age guy (Tom Wilkinson),
the newbie dimwit (Dave Franco who is great at this kind of role) and
Vince as the guy struggling to get his new business going. Sienna
Miller is pretty and does the ---hole boss well. James Marsden is good
as the corporate schmuck. The filming in Berlin is fun to watch with
it's mix of old and new and cutting edge. The side plot of Vince's kid
being bullied for being fat is a bit overdone. Of course there are some
crude moments like any comedy these days with it's nudity.

Overall worth one watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, I went ahead and gave it 7 out of 10. I was torn between a 7 or a
6, but I really did enjoy the movie. It made me laugh enough, for sure,
and while the story isn't going to win any Academy Awards for
originality, the actors did a good job with what they had to work with.
The problem I had with this movie is that it tried to be two things at
once, and it never really did make up its mind either way. For the most
part, it's a lot of crude, rude humor and crazy sex/blatant nudity, but
for some reason amidst all of that, the writer(s) keep trying to pull
at our heart strings with the Vince Vaughn character's kids having
bullying problems at school. Granted, bullying is a pretty hot topic
button these days, but I don't really think that a German bath house,
wheelbarrow sex in hotel rooms, and a gay fetish club in Berlin is
really the platform from which you want to preach it. This movie would
have been a lot better if they had picked one genre or the other and
just stuck with it. Other than that, this movie isn't really all that
bad. Nowhere nearly as bad as The Watch. Some good laughs, the naked
people are pretty attractive, and Tom Wilkinson (who ISN'T naked in
this film, thank goodness) is refreshingly funny in a rare comedic
turn.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a man who impulsively decides to start his
own company, because he refuses to take a 5% pay cut from his boss. He
hires a makeshift team of two, and together they try to win a contract
against his former employer.

"Unfinished Business" is clearly a popcorn film that I'll forget about
in a few months. It has a rather silly story, with characters that are
quite inept. They keep running into unlikely scenarios, such as going
to a gay festival and living in a reality art. I guess that is part of
the fun. I think Dave Franco's character stands out the most, because
his character is intellectually challenged, and yet he keeps a positive
attitude towards life. I think "Unfinished Business" provides adequate
brain-off entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie started off a bit seriously and not much of funny bits but it
kept on growing to be really hilarious in some scenes, Generally the
movie hits so many nerves like how to be courageous enough and
initiative to start your business if you know you're good enough to do
so, but also faces the bullying and it is what makes the movie more
purposeful and own a valid strong point of view. Maybe it's not the
type of comedy it would leave me on my back laughing but again the did
something good adding the bullying thingy to the plot so it would make
it more attractive.

The screenplay was thorough,, the script was "in my opinion" well
written, Steve Conrad took this project all by himself and he made it
look really genuine ,, yes this is no where near his previous movies
like "the weather man", "the promotion" or god knows "The Pursuit of
Happiness" but it still felt so nice to watch.

As for the cast, Vince Vaughn is genius we all know that, Bravo,, but
Dave Franco .. come on.. his performance here is applaudable .. he is
really heading to be a really renowned actor ... There were more than a
handful of really funny hardly laughable scenes for him,, When they're
all in the spa and he start saying "boobies ... boobies" and there was
another one when they were in the bathroom in the gay bar when he fell
down and said "the penis touched my face" and then the slapping with
the Japanese guys.. gosh his face expression is priceless :D Tom
Wilkinson was fine same goes for most of the characters.

Again the comedy was just okay at the beginning but it really peaked to
an exciting level in the hardcore party they were having :D

Overall, i believe any movie has a purpose deserve a chance on the big
screen and bullying is a huge matter and it was nice they shone a bit
of light on it ,, and the comedy was fresh .. not a Wowzer but still
nice and fresh so i found it enjoyable. So it pass 5/10 for the comedy
and over 6 for the story ;)
<|_=00=_|>
A comedy comprised of equal parts heart, brains and soul, "Unfinished
Business" is so low-keyed and laid-back in its humor that it's
practically guaranteed to get lost amidst all the crasser and flashier
items that Hollywood has to offer.

The movie reminds us, too, of just how nuanced and instinctive an actor
Vince Vaughn can be when he's given material worthy of his talents
(check out 1998's unforgettable "Return to Paradise" for definitive
proof of this assertion). Vaughn stars as Dan Trunkman, a harried St.
Louis businessman and father of two who feels so unappreciated by the
firm he works for that he decides to strike out on his own and start
his own company. The problem is he's saddled with two
less-than-impressive employees to help get the business off the ground:
a 67-year-old associate named Tim McWinters (Tom Wilkinson), and a
baby-faced neophyte with the giggle-inducing name of Mike Pancake (Dave
Franco) whose infectious smile and childlike eagerness at least
partially make up for his lack of experience, social graces and smarts.
While Dan and his merry band of social misfits try and land a major
account in Europe, Dan also faces crises back home with his overweight
son and hyper-sensitive daughter who are struggling with issues of
self-image and bullying.

It's hard to imagine that we'll encounter a more purely likable
character at the movies this year than Mike Pancake. Indefatigable,
perpetually smiling and almost pathologically eager to please, Michael
represents all of us who are just trying to find validation and
acceptance from a world that is all too often looking for ways to
marginalize us or put us down. And Franco plays the role with the
perfect mixture of unaffected simplicity and pathos to make us care
deeply about the character.

The script by Steven Conrad is so self-assured and knowing in its
reflection of human nature - especially in those moments of off-the-
wall surrealism that come seemingly out of nowhere - that its lapses
into crassness and vulgarity are all the more painful and regrettable
when they come along. But those occasions are few and far between, and
the movie has some endearing things to say about the power of team
work, self-esteem and unconquerable determination in getting us the
things we need and want out of life. 

Directed by Ken Scott, "Unfinished Business" is a scruffy, underdog of
a movie that may not be perfect but, thanks to its innate sweetness and
delightful performances, certainly gets you in its corner rooting it
on.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is superficial. The jokes are marginally funny. There were
nude scenes. The plot is somewhat predictable, a story of a underdog
who eventually pulled it off with persistency and heart despite numeral
setbacks. However, I for one can relate to the characters, a lot. I
watched the movie on HBO on a Friday night after a long day of work as
a small business owner. On this day, I bid on a project of a client who
really likes our work but seldom gives projects because of our small
size. Later I was told that another client was not happy with the
frequency of our communication - a large company's VPs have meeting
with her on a daily basis. With about a million things to take care of
everyday, I can't imagine to have time to call her everyday just to
chat. If you have struggles as a small business owner, which I am sure
each has, you will like this movie because you feel that the main
character is part of you. You try so hard for your family and your
employees, whose livelihood depend on you. So the movie struck me on a
day filled with some success and some setback at the same time, a
typical day of my life. Who can't say that's not how life is no matter
what you do. So the spirit of the character is contagious, and can
struck you deep. The movie appears to be superficial. But when you
think about it, and relate it to your life, it is not that superficial.
In fact, it provoked some deep emotions.
<|_=00=_|>
Didn't know what to expect. But I like Vince Vaughn because he doesn't
always stay in his comfort zone. This isn't a comedy. It's a rather
sweet story about a guy who sticks to what he believes in in a
non-alpha-male way. His partners in business are not very successful
and unpolished to say the least. They need to close a deal and go on a
business trip and are unexpectedly competing with the company Vaughn
walked away from. Meanwhile Vaughn needs to long-distance-deal with
some problems his kids have. There are a few laughs and chuckles, there
are some absurd situations, but to me those were there to spice up the
movie. It's mostly a light drama about a guy trying to support his
family, his co-workers and himself. I didn't get bored at all. I
suspect the bad reviews were triggered by the wrong expectations. If
you expect to see a laugh out loud type of comedy, you will feel
disappointed. But if you expect to see a good enough script, well
delivered with some nice laughs, you'll be fine.
