
Now you'd expect the typical reviews for this kind of movie from most
critics, "it's just another mindless action film" or "Statham can't
act". Ignore them, If your an action/statham fan you won't be
disappointed.

If your like me and miss the traditional action films from the past
that had Charles Bronson or Chuck Norris, your gonna appreciate and
like this movie. Statham is the last action hero of our time. He
consistently delivers solid action movies where you know what your
gonna get. In Homefront thats some bloody shootouts, great fight scenes
and some good one liners. It has a good cast, People may not take James
Franco seriously as a villain but it's interesting to see him in a
movie like this and he does a good job with it. Kate Bosworth was very
believable as a crazed meth head. It has a straight forward, thrilling
story that builds the tension nicely to an action packed ending. 

You don't get these type of movies anymore. These days pg-13 with dumb
cgi is what most "action" movies are about. The days of the action hero
as they once were are dying out, but Statham is their to provide some
vintage style action flicks like Homefront which is one of his better
films. Overall, whatever your thinking - watch this movie.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Transporter" rocketed Statham's name as a well rounded action star.
Since then, most of his action films have felt the same, just with a
different title. That was my mind set going into watch this film.
"Homefront", isn't your usual Statham film, and it's nice to see it
play out the way it did. A change of pace for Statham movies, and
hopefully a turning point for the actor. But let's keep things simple:
Story: Good Acting: Good Action: Very Good Pacing: Good If you're
looking for a good action film with a lot of heart, watch this. It's
not bad.

7.1/10
<|_=00=_|>
After the death of his wife, Phil Broker (Jason Statham) and his young
daughter Maddy (Izabela Vidovic) to a small Louisiana town. What starts
out as what was supposed to be a new beginning quickly changes. After
an altercation with a local hick family, the wife Cassie (Kate
Bosworth), enlists her brother Gator (James Franco) to put a scare into
him. But what starts out as a few minor threats quickly begins to
escalate and become more personal, and Broker is willing to do whatever
it takes to protect his daughter and his homefront.

Jason Statham has been known for his past non-stop action films. While
entreating and fun, most of them lack a lot of substance. Homefront is
a change of pace. Instead of playing the normal character he usually
does, Statham is family man this time around. He's trying to provide a
better life for his daughter by trying to avoid conflict, but conflict
seems to follow him amongst the townspeople. At the film's core it's
about a man trying to do his best, but like many people, he has his
limit. What sets it apart from Statham's other films is that there's
more to the story than him running around beating the hell out of
everyone. There is also more substance to his character. But it
certainly wouldn't be a Jason Statham movie without some good fight
sequences. While we are treated to minor ones throughout the movie, the
biggest one of all, of course, is in the final act of the movie. The
film does a good job of balancing the story with action which should be
please most audiences However, one of it's weaknesses is that it has
more villains than necessary, and it ultimately leaves the viewer
wondering who the real villain is. It also suffers from some weak
character development with some pretty important characters including
Kate Bosworth's character who essentially is the one who sets things in
motion, she pops up every once in a while and randomly shows up at the
end. Rachelle Lefevre who stars as Maddy's school psychologist isn't
given much to work with either. She's introduced and it's evident
there's chemistry between her and Statham's character and that's really
it. And while she's present through a good chunk of the movie as
Franco's girlfriend, Winona Ryder has a character that should have been
given a bit more history, as she's an integral part when it comes to
the "other" villains.

Jason Statham gives a very credible performance. As noted, we typically
see him as the all- around tough guy with nothing much else to show.
Here, we see him as a father caring for his daughter, plus that, and he
balances both really well. The moments between him and newcomer Izabela
Vidovic are nice to watch as their chemistry as father and daughter
really works. Vidovic also gives a very good performance as Maddy, she
portrays a tough young girl well, but plays the emotional moments when
discussing her deceased mother very well. James Franco stars as one of
the major villains in the movie. After his villain-ish performance in
Spring Breakers, Franco takes on a more legitimate villain role. The
thing about Franco as the villain here is that we never know what his
next move will be, he does a excellent job of keeping the audience on
their toes. The rest of the cast (at least what we see of them) do a
decent job, though nothing spectacular or memorable. 

For a film of a new nature for Jason Statham, Homefront does a
well-done job, as does Statham and Franco. The story is one that can
appeal to both genders. It's not all action, but offers plenty of
thrills and dramatic elements to keep the story going until the big
fight scenes occur. Despite some of the weak character development, and
the over-abundance of villains, Homefront is an above average film that
is easily Statham's best.

My Rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance most Jason Statham movies are pretty much about the
same thing. Some quiet, keep to himself guy finds himself using
exceptional fighting skills against the bad guys. Turns our he's
usually the fastest gun, in this case fist in the west. This time Jason
Statham is a retired-likely forced retired DEA agent who raising his
daughter after his wife and her mother pass away. They move to a quiet
town somewhere in Louisiana and settle in. When his daughter gets
harassed by the local bully in school, she drop kicks him into another
dimension--hey, she did warn him before she broke the fat tub of lard's
nose. Next we meet his mother, a very loud, unrecognizable Kate
Bosworth who disrespects both daughter and Statham. When she fails at
intimidating him by having her husband try to assault him in the school
parking lot-a one-two takedown by Statham, she enlists the help of
local meth kingpin brother, James Franco. There is a back story in the
beginning and some actual character development dealing with Statham's
former life and an undercover cop. Frank Zito, who in my opinion is
very under rated both as a character actor and villain in this case,
steals the opening sequence as motorcycle gang leader bent on revenge.
This movie has some exceptional fight scenes, explosions, and very
intense show down between Franco and Statham that was actually pretty
surprising and satisfying. This is a Jason Statham movie but a strong
supporting cast of Franco and Zito steal the show as both small time
and big time antagonists. Action fans will enjoy this latest blend of
action and drama from the last true action star of this genre. At 100
minutes, its just long enough to hold your interest. Surprisingly,
Statham's last few films have contained some human elements to their
stories. While it's not going to win any major awards, this movie is
sure to please action fans and others looking for a decent night out at
the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
While this may not be a great movie, and it had some boring spots, it
definitely delivers on action, what I'm sure most of us came to see.

Jason Statham is bad**s as usual, kicking a** and taking names like
it's nobody's business. James Franco is great as the main bad guy.
Izabela Vidovic was also great as Statham's character's daughter, I can
definitely see her appearing in many more movies in the future.

I liked how it seems like the whole town is in on something, conspiring
against Statham's character for whatever their reasons are, I was
really interested to see what was going to happen next.

While not perfect, this is pretty much your typical Jason Statham movie
(that's a good thing), with a nice father-daughter relationship thrown
in. Worth watching for anyone who enjoys watching Jason Statham
repeatedly beating the crap out of various assorted scumbags.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright, 'Homefront' may not offer a strong premise or a power-packed
Script, but what it has, is, Jason Statham. The Action-Star rocks in
his portrayal of a hero, who defeats each & every snob out there &
refuses to lose, ever. 

'Homefront' Synopsis: A former DEA agent moves his family to a quiet
town, where he soon tangles with a local meth drug-lord.

Stallone's Screenplay isn't wow, but its interesting nevertheless. The
Action-Sequences are magnificent, with Statham executing all the moves
with style. Gary Fleder's Direction is fair.

Performance-Wise: Statham is the life of the show. James Franco makes a
sincere attempt to portray a baddie, but fails to evoke much terror or
fear. Kate Bosworth is commendable, while Winona Ryder does her bit
well. 

On the whole, Love Statham? Watch 'Homefront'. Simple.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Winona Ryder, in my opinion she is one of the sexiest actresses
ever. Can you guess what made me go see this movie? Yes, it was Winona.
I loved watching her in this film, she was great and looks awesome. I
have also decided that James Franco is for real. He can play nice guys,
mean guys and doped up drug dealers with ease. I never miss one of his
films. 

So now let's talk about Jason Statham. Well this IS a Jason Statham
movie so you know how it's going to end, I won't tell you any of the
plot. I am not a real big fan of him but he did very well in this film.
If you see only one Jason Statham film, make it be this one, he is at
his best. The action scene's were very intense and the cinematography
was excellent, you could definitely feel Sylvestor Stallone's
influence. 

This is a must see film if you like action films, adults only though,
there is some serious fowl language, definitely not for children. I
give it 8 stars out of 10. Unfortunately though, it was released during
the very competitive Thanksgiving weekend and will have a tough time
holding up against other big budget films.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very pleased with this movie. Its got the action you want, a
believable story to keep the momentum going and a handful of good
actors to support it.

First of all, I LOL at all the people criticizing the plot, dialog,
character development etc, again let me LOL. People watch Jason's
movies for the a** kicking action and fight scenes. I will admit, some
of his movies I think about giving up at the half way mark, but this
was one of his better films for sure. 

Transporter, Homefront, Hummingbird would be my favorite Statham movies
not including the Guy Ritchie classics of course. 

8/10 will definitely watch again.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the only reason this movie gets a ten out of ten from me is
to try and balance out the unfair average score it's been given.

I never really liked Statham, he just never stood out to me as a
particularly great actor, and certainly isn't my favorite. But I can
say for a fact that I've yet to watch a movie from him that I've not
enjoyed. Homefront is an interesting beast, combining psychological
thriller and vigilante action-flick, which is quite alright in my book.
In fact, there were plenty of times were my heart-strings were pulled,
as an American male, living in the south during these times in the war
on drugs, I was able to connect enough with Statham's character, even
if I never worked in law- enforcement.

Unfortunately, this is pretty much the movie's downfall, seeing as we
live in a time where it's frowned upon to have any sort of pride or
ability to defend yourself or your family, and God forbid you like a
movie that teaches you such things. Basically, what I'm saying is that
if you're a bleeding heart wuss who doesn't like seeing drug-dealers
getting their just-desserts, then you won't like this movie, and should
probably go watch a Michael Moore movie or some mess.

However, if you're a fan of action, suspense, and watching the bad-guys
get the snot beat out of them, this is definitely a good movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly this movie is good, it's a movie for all the Jason Statham
fans out there. I enjoyed watching this movie over the 2nd Hunger games
movie; catching fire. If you like those movies with ex special forces,
ex military, ex special agent or someone who's just a solo destroyer,
this is the movie for you. Jason Statham is so underrated and needs to
be more known for his acting in these great action movies he's in. The
story is a simple base line and that's all you really need for having
such a good actor; Jason Statham. Great film overall! Definitely would
recommend this movie to action lovers, especially those who like to see
amazing take downs, and showing the enemies who's the boss.
