
Steve Jobs isn't a nice guy... he uses people like they are toilet
paper... and he is a taker. It's a great set-up for a slammin' movie.
Unfortunitely, this movie seems incomplete and without heart. More
accurately, most of the scenes seem incomplete, disjointed and
pointless. It all adds up to nothing.

Problem #1) You don't care for Jobs and you leave the theater not
knowing Jobs. There are few emotional moments in the movie - except
when you want to spit on him. Fire this person unnecessarily; deny that
loyal employee well-earned benefit; use your wealth to destabilize the
company... it all describes someone you are glad you don't know
personally or professionally.

Problem #2) The movie is paced slower than my Aunt Minnie in a walker.
I've seen paint dry faster.

Problem #3) The acting... maybe I should say the affectations. Kutcher
over-emphasized Jobs odd gate and stance as if it meant something. But
why distract us with an antalgic back, hyper-extension of the knees,
increased lordosis and anterior propulsion? It distracted from the
story and took me out of the movie every time.

Problem #4) The editing was horrible. Scenes would start and finish
randomly - with no emotional content. Many scenes had no relationship
to the structure of the movie - taking valuable time and adding little
to nothing; disjointed would be too nice of a word.

Problem #5) The strange arc of the story-line ended before it began in
earnest. The writing didn't explain how the apple II was able to
sustain the many, many years of subsequent failures. Do corporations
really build stockholders via "image", not performance? Metaphysically,
I know that untalented a-holes who use, abuse and throw people away
deserve to suffer. But we didn't see suffering. We see a fabulously
wealthy person, whose emotional system was M.I.A, slide through life on
the efforts of others.

There is no teaching moment in this movie. There is no emotional
content. There are no memorable lines or moments. This isn't a movie;
it feels more like revenge, cold and pointless.
<|_=00=_|>
This Feelgood tragedy of the century isn't worth your money. Why the
hell did they even make this movie in the first place!? Were there not
enough documentaries and TV shows about Apple and Steve Jobs!? Did we
really need a butchered version featuring Ashton Kutcher. They spent 8
and a half million dollars making a movie about a guy who already had a
lot of movies already Why is Steve Jobsis portrayed here as some sort
of hero? It just makes me so mad to think that they could get away with
making something like this Spend your 14 dollars and get something to
eat while you watch Pirates of Silicon Valley, a much better and much
more accurate story of Steve Jobs and Apple's beginnings
<|_=00=_|>
Joshua Michael Stern's "Jobs" is like an assembly line for the best
moments in the career of Steve Jobs, but seriously lacking in depth,
and without much significance. It is a truly unremarkable biopic of the
"master of innovation" as you could possibly imagine. "Jobs" follows an
overly safe, unimaginative course that clocks in at a tiresome 122
minutes. The storytelling is painfully straightforward, covering only
the principal events of his professional trials and tribulations, and
providing little else beyond what is already public knowledge.

Developing his imagination for computer programming at Atari, Steve
Jobs (Ashton Kutcher) brings in his friend Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad) to
help with the hardware aspect, forming a partnership that would soon
lead to the founding and development of Apple Computers, a force within
the industry throughout the 1980s. Steve is not prepared for the
financial demands and the ruthless business mentality, and is
eventually forced out of the company he began, only to return in the
1990s with a fresh game plan on how to bring Apple back into the public
consciousness, and to dominate the industry once again.

"Jobs" is a biopic with a very narrow focus, and without any sense of
risk or adventure. It is so intent on covering Jobs' entire corporate
career, that it simply reduces his personal life to a footnote. Stern
completely glosses over Jobs' personal life, which is essential to any
self-respecting biopic. The entire production feels rushed and slapped
together simply to benefit from being the first one out of the gate.

To his credit, Kutcher puts forth a good effort, and he undeniably
looks the part of Steve Jobs. Unfortunately, Ashton always looks like
he is trying too hard to play the part, and never fully becomes the
character he's portraying. His limitations on the big screen prove to
be a major liability. He has developed a screen persona as likable
character, which has served him well with numerous TV sitcoms. Not so
much with movies.

What emerges is a movie that has "a made for TV" feel, which depicts a
self-absorbed creep who stabs everyone in the back to simply to get his
way that goes on for two plus hours. A thoroughly unsatisfying tribute,
and we are still left none the wiser as to what made "The Father of the
Digital Revolution" beyond what we already know.
<|_=00=_|>
The first of what will surely be many biopics to come of one of the 
20th century's greatest innovators, 'Jobs' only draw is being first out 
of the gate. Yes, if you haven't yet been acquainted with the 
tumultuous early years of the Apple founder, then this perfunctory 
retelling will probably be as good an introduction as any; but everyone 
else who is familiar with the story will be disappointed with this 
overly simplistic portrayal of a complex man whose ambition was both 
his greatest gift as well as his most significant stumbling block.

Beginning in 2001 when he unveiled his masterpiece, the iPod, to 
rapturous applause, Stern and his first-time feature screenwriter Matt 
Whiteley rewind the clock thirty years ago to 1971 when Jobs was a 
student at Reed College, Portland. An LSD trip, a journey to India and 
a brief stint at Atari later, Jobs teams up with his buddy, self-taught 
engineering wiz Steve Wozniak (Josh Gad), to build Apple computers in 
the former's parents' Los Altos garage. Jobs had the inspired idea to 
combine a typewriter with a TV, and the Apple II was born - but not 
without the funding from entrepreneur and former Intel engineer Mike 
Markkula (Dermot Mulroney).

To find a dramatic hook, Whiteley predictably focuses on the most 
pivotal turning point in Jobs' life, as Jobs' launch of the Macintosh 
computer in 1984 sparks off an internal feud with his CEO John Scully 
(Matthew Modine) and the rest of the Board (including J.K. Simmons' 
Arthur Rock) that leads to his ouster and the company's subsequent 
decline. Of course, Jobs makes a return to the flailing company in 1996 
upon then-CEO Gil Amelio's (Kevin Dunn) request, returning Apple to its 
roots in the personal computer market and paving the way for its 
success today.

Is there anything this dramatization adds to that true story which you 
cannot glean from any text-based account? Hardly; if anything, it 
merely puts a face to the disbelief, disappointment, indignation and 
gratification Jobs must have felt when he was kicked out of Apple and 
then presented with the golden opportunity to rebuild the company into 
the vision he had for it at the onset. The storytelling is pretty 
straightforward, covering the important events of his professional ups 
and downs but providing little details beyond what is already public 
knowledge.

Admittedly, to expect more would probably be a tall order, since the 
man has passed away and the others who would be familiar with these 
past events did not participate in the making of this film - including 
the real-life Woz, who in fact has been a vocal critic of the movie. 
But more disappointingly, Stern completely glosses over Jobs' personal 
life and personality, both of which are essential to any 
self-respecting biopic - after all, how can any biography be complete 
without an insight into the person whose life story is being told?

Whiteley's episodic script is utterly superficial in this regard - and 
we're not talking about Jobs' drive, determination or innovation. 
Instead, Jobs' crucial relationship with Wozniak is thinly sketched, 
not only because it omits how they met and their chemistry, but also 
because it barely explains why Woz quit Apple dissatisfied with the 
direction the company was heading and the person that Jobs had become. 
Other aspects of Jobs' character are given short shrift - for instance, 
we see Jobs dumping his pregnant girlfriend Chris-Ann Brennan (Ahna 
O'Reilly) and refusing to recognise his newly born daughter as his own 
early on, but are given little explanation how and why he settles down 
and turns into a family man later.

If the scripting is a part of the problem, then the acting is yet 
another. Chiefly, while bearing more than a passing resemblance to 
Jobs, Ashton Kutcher is not up to the part. To his credit, one can tell 
Kutcher has put in a lot of effort into the role, emulating his 
character's awkwardly hunched posture as well as to some degree his 
voice and gestures; unfortunately Kutcher always looks like he is 
playing the part, and never quite becoming the character he is supposed 
to portray. It is an affected performance, and Kutcher's limitations as 
a dramatic actor are all too apparent here. In fact, the supporting 
acts steal the show, especially Mulroney's solid turn as Jobs' ally 
turned adversary.

Most of all, Stern's film rarely possesses the qualities that 
characterised Jobs - it isn't bold enough to offer a balanced, or 
critical even, perspective of the man (including his more unsavoury 
personal aspects), nor unique enough to provide a distinctive look at 
the early years of his storied career. What emerges is simply bland and 
uninspired filmmaking, which in the context of Jobs' illustrious and 
intricate life, is an unsatisfying tribute to a man who spent his time 
being exactly the opposite. 

<|_=00=_|>
Whoever thought the Kutcher could play Steve Jobs needs their head
examined! He makes the movie so difficult to watch (where was the
director for God's sake!).

But the problems don't end there. Jobs' life is only partially
portrayed, so if you only know about Jobs being at Apple--that is still
pretty much all you know about him. Engineers are portrayed, as they
typically are in "Hollywood" films--nerdy enough to be uncool.

Where is the story??!! Most people will be lost, there is not much
continuity, and you are left at the end wondering why you came to the
movie. You didn't learn anything new about Jobs, you are not sure what
the point was, and yet you spent two painful hours trying to get
something out of this film.

It's a shame this movie was so awful.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's see, well it was worth seeing for me; however, I wished I had
waited till is came out on television -- Because it was really a "movie
of the week"... do they still have those? To say this movie was weak on
facts would imply they got it ALL wrong - Yes, they made some things up
doing the "hollywood thing" but they didn't even attempt half the
history so they couldn't have gotten it ALL wrong! Parts of his life
missing were glaring!

They glossed over years -- Heck decades at points, concentrating on
Apple more than Steve Jobs in my opinion... maybe a better name would
have been "Apple & jobs - Some of the Years"!

Wait for the movie to hit your TV and know you will still be missing
more than half the story!
<|_=00=_|>
"Jobs" could have been "insanely great" but instead gives a lackluster
glance at the highlights and low lights of Steve Jobs' life.

While the film is factually accurate from the events cited and
statements Steve Jobs made down to the realism of the characters
appearances, it lacked character development and a cohesive story. It
is well cast and well acted. However, with major events being presented
in the film like news headlines, there is no story justifying their
existence. Steve Jobs is portrayed giving repeated quoted monologues
instead of engaging in real dialog between himself and his co-workers
to illustrate the chemistry of their relationships that lead to their
success.

Since 1982 I spent most of my adult life using Apple's products,
writing thousands of lines of code on the Apple II computer and reading
every news story about Apple. The film fails to capture the grueling
work and the pride programmers and engineers feel for designing cutting
edge hardware and software to create Apple's superior computers and
software.

For such a prolific inventor and complex man that Steve Jobs was, I am
surprised that a veteran director like Ron Howard or Steven Spielberg
didn't direct this. I really wanted to know how Steve Jobs'
father-in-law inspired him and instilled in him his drive for
perfection. I wanted to learn how Steve started iTunes and invented the
iPod. These were not in the movie.

There are many key events in Apple's history the film omitted that were
crucial to understanding Apple's success. Steve's idea for the Mac
originated with his engineer, Jef Raskin, showing him a prototype
bitmapped GUI of Alto computer at the Xerox PARC think tank in 1979. It
had the first personal desktop interface of windows, icons, menus and a
mouse, a major advancement over the millions of existing command driven
PC's in the market using green screen monitors with mono-spaced fonts
of 40 characters by 24 lines. Jobs was immediately convinced the Alto
interface is the direction Apple Computer must go, so he bought it from
Xerox and designed the Lisa and, later the Macintosh on this concept.
The film omitted this visit to Xerox.

There was fierce competition in the personal computer industry. A
decades-old storied rivalry between Bill Gates and Steve Jobs began in
1985, one year after the Mac debuted. Except for one scene in the film,
this rivalry was completely omitted from it. Jobs' was irate that Gates
stole Apple's graphic user interface (GUI) from the Macintosh but the
film fails to show how this happened. Jobs previously went to Microsoft
to hire Bill Gates to write business software (Word, Multiplan, etc.)
to enable Apple to sell its new Macintosh computer. In doing so,
Microsoft learned how Apple's GUI worked, reverse engineered it and
created a similar interface for Microsoft's new Windows operating
system to work on the existing millions of IBM computers running
Microsoft's Disk Operating System (MS DOS). Microsoft would compete
directly against Apple Computer. Though the film does portray Steve
Jobs as a disciplinarian, a perfectionist and temperamental, it never
shows why he was this way.

The film was remiss of major events and details needed to explain
Apple's success story. Jobs got his start in electronics working for
Hewlett-Packard after calling founder William Hewlett on the phone at
his home. Jobs met Wozniak at HP. And, Jobs used "The HP Way" as a
blueprint for starting Apple Computer. Steve Jobs' miraculous
turnaround of Apple from near bankrupt to profitable in three years and
to the world's largest company in 13 years, business leaders consider
the biggest ever success story in the history of American business. How
the film could leave out this turnaround (inventing the highly
successful iMac, PowerPC, iPod, iTunes and iPhone) is astonishing. Even
before coming back to Apple, Jobs re-invented Pixar animation after
buying The Graphics Group from George Lucas, revolutionizing animated
movies for Disney that were created on NeXT graphics workstations (the
most advanced in existence) that Steve Jobs invented. This, too, was
omitted from the film.

In one of his biographies, Steve Jobs explains succinctly how the iPod
epitomizes Apple Computer, "it combines Apple's incredible technology
base with Apple's legendary ease of use with Apple's awesome design."
This is the premise upon which "Jobs" should have been based. I
recommend the film but with reservations.

Chris Kaufmann
<|_=00=_|>
Saw a preview screening of 'JOBS' movie, but went away feeling that I
just watched a 2 hour Apple computer commercial instead. I was
entertained but also felt the movie was incorrectly titled It should
have been called "the Apple Computer Movie" 

If you are a Jobs/Apple fan then go see the movie, otherwise save
yourself from frustration & wait to watch it on TV. Ashton Kutcher's
performance of Steve Jobs was very good. But that doesn't excuse the
fact that there were way to many holes in the writing. 

They missed to much basic info about Steve Jobs life. I understand that
you can't show everything about a person's life in 2 hours. But give me
some info. An example: the storyline introduced very serious issues
about his infant daughter, then suddenly later she briefly just shows
up as a teenager without any explanation or anything in between. No
mention about Jobs involvement with Pixar, Disney or music festivals
and almost nothing about Steve Jobs life if it didn't have anything to
do directly with Apple.

What happened to the ending? Spoiler alert: Steve regains his position
at Apple, movie over. (Jobs get his job back) Why not mention his
battle with cancer/health issues & death? the story timeline never gets
past the 2001 introduction of the ipod, (sorry they didn't get to
iphones & ipads)

The music soundtrack had some good classic tracks included but the rest
sounded just like the dramatic lonely piano music pulled from the
Shawshank Redemption. It worked well but seemed just like I've heard it
somewhere before.
<|_=00=_|>
There is not much to say about this movie that hasn't been written in
many of the reviews before. The movie is flat, no emotions whatsoever,
no chemistry between the actors, most of the carachters are just "one
dimension"..

I am not an apple fanatic (I have some of their products but I do not
change them to follow the flow every year) and I am not blind before
the flaws of Jobs' personality, but I'd like to see in the movie all
the aspects of the man who, like it or not, left a mark in the IT
field. What I saw it is a series of often disconnected episodes, and
the few of them which were nice were a re-do of the (much better) the
pirates of the Silicon Valley.

Do not waste your time with this movie: if you want to learn more about
apple/jobs, read a book, if you are already aware of the story, it
simply won't add anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Apple is currently the highest net worth company in the world and to
own any of the Apple gadgets has become a status symbol. Steve Jobs is
an idol, a revolutionary and an inspiration to the millions of people
who want to change the world. After his death, his legendary status
grew even more (as it always does with passed away celebrities), so it
is perfectly reasonable that there were high expectations for this
movie. People were expecting a grand masterpiece of epic proportions
about a man who many want to relate to and who many want to be. 

Unfortunately, the movie took a slightly different turn and the result
of this can be seen on the IMDb movie score. This movie is not an epic
journey of a strange protégé who eventually achieved everything there
was to achieve and was carried on the arms of a cheering crowd at the
end, followed by the end credits. NO! This is a movie about Jobs -
about his personality, about his decisions, about his victories and
about his failures. It is a cruel representation of what you have to go
through in this world to achieve the status that he now has. 

It's a movie about a troubled hipster who wanted to learn and to
achieve something, but hated the system into which the young are thrown
into. He dropped out of College but still attended some classes, he got
into fights at work because he would yell at his coworkers that they
were not doing their job, he took other peoples ideas, remade them into
a story and sold them with his speeches and he wanted all. He was
stubborn, he always wanted the impossible and here comes the part that
made him a legend: he always got the impossible out of people.

Eventually he was driven from his company, he made bad calls, bad
decisions, bad products, but later came back and dominated the computer
scene again. He probably had more bad moments than good, but it's the
good ones that count...and it's the good ones that changed the world.

The people didn't get what they wanted...they didn't get a people's
hero nor the man that was always right. And no one wants to see a movie
about a man who nobody liked half of the movie...but it is how he was
and you have to accept that.

Ashton Kutcher's portrayal was also quite good and it seems that all
the comedy movies and series that he has done have earned him a title
of a bad actor, so you will hear a lot people saying this was a miss
cast. Don't believe this people: go see the movie and make up your own
mind.

So don't be discouraged by the low IMDb ranking and see this movie with
expectations of a great movie about a man who was an inventor, a
visionary, a man who changed the world, but was still only that: a man,
nothing more, nothing less.

P.s. Don't expect to see any modern products in this movie. At the
beginning, you will only briefly get to see the first generation Ipod,
while other products are all the ones from the era before 1996. The
movie actually ends in 1996, so many are disappointed that the movie
did not show the era of Ipod's, Ipad's, Iphone's and Macbook's.
