
Mindless entertainment, check.

Justin Timberlake being Justin Timberlake, check.

Ben Affleck being his same character from Boiler Room but with more
blinking while delivering frat-boy douche lines, double check.

Hot girl standing around being hot, Check.

FBI agent way to young and random to be a believable yet cliché FBI
agent, check. 

Justin Timberlake not nearly getting his ass kicked enough in this
film, inexcusable but CHECK.

5/10 yall
<|_=00=_|>
I was sorely tempted to write a single word review of Runner Runner:
Pointless! 

But I'll resist and expand slightly.

The trailer strongly suggests an intelligent, exciting thriller of
crime and intrigue with A-list stars, action, drama, plenty of danger
and a soupçon of violence. The realty of Runner Runner is somewhat
blander.

Richie Furst (Justin Timberlake) is a Princeton student with moderate
financial worries, who supports himself through online gambling. When
he risks everything (except the price of his airline ticket to Costa
Rica, clearly) on a game and loses, he discovers he has been swindled
and heads south to confront the man behind the poker company and scam,
Ivan Block (Ben Affleck). Block is so impressed with Furst's balls that
he offers him a job with eight-figure returns. With the chance to join
the super rich, all the pleasures it encompasses and, predictably, a
beautiful woman, Rebecca (Gemma Arterton), who equally predictably is
Block's girlfriend, Furst's life couldn't be any better. Then FBI agent
Shavers (Anthony Mackie) interferes.

The ingredients are there but it just doesn't work. The characters are
half-written shadows of people about whom we don't care. There is no
depth, detail or intrigue to inspire us to invest our attention and,
though we try to second guess the plot and look for the twists and
double crosses lurking in the background, it transpires there are none
to speak of and what we see is the sum total of it.

Timberlake is on something of a downward trajectory after the superb
The Social Network. Neither Bad Teacher nor Trouble with the Curve
ignited and his turn in Runner Runner, though adequate, does nothing to
persuade us he's an A-lister in Hollywoodland.

Affleck, however, was ridding high with the supreme success of Argo and
the promise of more box office clout with the forthcoming Gone Girl and
Batman vs. Superman. Runner Runner isn't going to damage his career but
it certainly isn't going to boost it.

Meanwhile, there are times when Gemma Arterton frequently forgets to
act (and can't pronounce Antigua) and Mackie is lumbered with a role
that diminishes even the 'heights' of Pain and Gain.

Somebody really needs to shake director Brad Furman, turn him around
and point him in the direction of a sequel to his fine The Lincoln
Lawyer.

Runner Runner isn't a bad film. It's just a bland, boring, forgettable,
dull thud with no echo.

For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the
Facebook page.
<|_=00=_|>
Richie Furst (Justin Timberlake), a Princeton management graduate
student who promotes an online gambling site on campus, earning
commissions to pay off his tuition. When the school clamps down on his
activities and he loses all his savings on a last ditch all-or-none
bet, Furst goes straight to the top, flying to Costa Rica to seek out
Ivan Block (Ben Affleck), the kingpin of online gaming.

Block admires Furst's gambling acumen and hires him to be a trusted
runner for his business affairs, which slowly reveal themselves to be
less than on the level. When FBI agent Agent Zbysko (Anthony Mackie)
enters the scene with his threats, Furst discovers he might have bitten
off more than he could chew.

Justin Timberlake generally does well as Furst, wide-eyed and excited
at first, troubled and harassed at the end. I liked his scenes with his
father played by John Heard. I do not really expect much from Ben
Affleck as an actor, and again here, he does not measure up. He is
hardly believable as a nefarious gambling lord who could feed his
enemies to crocodiles. 

The beautiful Gemma Arterton is totally wasted here. She does not get
to do much, and she does not have any chemistry with any of the men she
is supposed to be in liaisons with. Anthony Mackie plays the FBI agent
too over-the-top to be convincing.

The story was too familiar to be exciting. The relationship of Justin
and Ben (and Gemma, for that matter) were too dry to be engaging. The
gambling jargon was too hard to follow to be interesting. The ending is
too obvious to be worth the time spent watching.
<|_=00=_|>
You know it's a good sign when the title has nothing to do with the
movie.

Here's a film that begins one way but winds up being something else
entirely.

Justin Timberlake plays a Princeton student paying his way through
tuition costs by playing online poker, one day he loses big and finds
out later he was cheated. He then heads out to Costa Rica to confront
the owner of the website (Ben Affleck), but soon winds up in his
employ.

When the movie begins it plays out very much like The Social Network,
everyone is talking fast, there's a thumping electronic score and
there's lots of impossible to follow jargon being tossed around. But
once we get to Costa Rica it turns into one of those crime movies where
you have the good intentioned innocent guy being pulled into the
underbelly by the charming criminal.

The movie is boring, deathly boring.

The whole time you find yourself listening to bland, completely
uninspired dialogue that exists only to get straight to the point to
keep the movie flowing. With one of the most banal generic plots you
could possibly fathom. You find yourself as a viewer one step ahead of
all the characters in the film because it's a movie that's been made a
million times before, there is not a single unique surprise in the
entire thing.

The entire film trundles along with scene after scene of boring lazy
dialogue, obvious foreshadowing and almost no action scenes.

Plus the film just looks cheap, characters who live in these huge
extravagant, completely senseless homes will walk into some dingy room
to talk for ten minutes. The direction and photography is completely
dead, there is not a single creative flair to heighten the feel of the
picture.

Justin Timberlake was excellent in The Social Network, but he hasn't
shined in anything since. He's not bad in this movie, but it's not a
performance that could pass as anything better than serviceable. Gemma
Arterton does absolutely nothing but stand around looking pretty, plus
she and Timberlake has absolutely no chemistry making the romance
between them feel completely awkward. Anthony Mackie is completely
wasted in this, he may have the only funny moments in the movie, but
his scenes are completely perfunctory.

But God-bless Ben Affleck, who seems to know what a miserable pile of
dreck he's in, and seems to be the only one having any fun. It's a
performance that's so completely beneath him and he's definitely
phoning it in, but his character is so deliciously wicked that it's
hard not to love him and every scene he's in completely energises the
movie. I can't exactly explain what happened but at some point in the
third act the character became some kind of super villain that you
would only see in the craziest James Bond movies.

Save for Affleck (and a weird cameo by Deadmau5), it's just an
incredibly generic and forgettable affair that isn't even worth
watching at home, this is the kind of movie that's best left forgotten.

Also it's pronounced AN-TEE-GAH not AN-TI-GUAR.
<|_=00=_|>
Dear oh dear oh dear. The saying "Don't give up your day job" could
never be more true regarding a certain someones performance. Over the
past 7 years now, Justin Timberlake has become progressively prominent
in films. Why? Well because he's a big star....in music that is. So
(according to some deluded people) that must mean he must be able to
act....no it doesn't. He is a terrible actor; every single thing he
does is horrifically unconvincing. He could even be in a film where he
plays a popstar and i still wouldn't believe it. His smiles are
smothered in falseness, his delivery is diabolical, his expressions are
excruciating to watch. There are no redeeming features to his "acting".
What makes a great actor is someone who makes you believe they truly
are the person they are portraying. Timberlake is seemingly incapable
of that. 

He seems to get plaudits for "The Social Network", but the only reason
he does is because he is in fact an attention seeking, irritating
dweeb. Every chat show he over compensates and that follows him in
films where he overacts. And just like in "In Time" his acting drains
any chance of potential for this film. 

People may argue that it wasn't his fault the film was terrible, and
yes the film was rather dull as a whole, but it does not excuse his
obvious inability to act. And in my opinion it was his fault i couldn't
enjoy it. There are scenes in the movie where you can't help but
associate Richie (Timberlake) with people from other films....horrible
versions of course. When he's acting like the whiz kid of poker;
tediously explaining the way to win, you just have to look back to
Edward Norton or Matt Damon in "Rounders" and it really shows how bad
he is. When he's strolling around the casino with the most irritating
of faces, you flash back to Robert De Niro in "Casino" and it really
couldn't be anymore blatant that Timberlake is completely out of sync
when it comes to acting.

Ben Affleck and Anthony Mackie where average, but they didn't have much
chance in such a dense film. I really am struggling to add positivity,
but it's difficult, it was just monotonous. erm..... just Timberlake's
attempt at an angry face making me chuckle... that's about it.
<|_=00=_|>
The 3*s I'm giving Runner Runner are for the location and the concept,
this could have been a really great film but is completely let down by
a incomplete script, poor direction, cinematography and wooden acting.

The Opening 10-15 minutes of the film should have been Timberlake's
character back story leading to the point where we actually open. There
is absolutely no chemistry between Timberlake and Arterton, Affleck
proves once again how he's able to be out-acted by the most inanimate
object on screen, and I saw the film less than an hour ago and have
already forgotten everything the FBI agent did.

Due to the poor script you have a total lack of empathy for anyone, you
actually don't really care if they live, die, go to prison or get away.
My biggest concern was if it actually was Deadmau5 DJing at the Doctor
Parnassus themed party or just some dude in a similar hat.

Also, the jargon used throughout the film means absolutely nothing to
anyone with out a financial and IT background.

If you want to watch a good film about someone trying to pay for their
university education watch 21!
<|_=00=_|>
Not as intelligent as it thinks it is.

This would be true if the films producers intended to create something
intelligent, but Runner Runner is textbook sex-money-thriller, with a
spot of online gambling thrown in to keep it relevant, and nobody
involved with its production thinks it's intelligent.

The film stars Justin Timberlake and Ben Affleck, who have to make
money somehow I suppose, but the best line in the film is reserved for
token-black-FBI agent, played unremarkably by Anthony Mackie.

"That's what you say to someone who is stupid. Do you think I'm
stupid."

Hey, you read my mind. Whoever wrote this script definitely thinks
we're stupid.

The film's female characters deserve attention, not for their acting
but the way they're shamelessly draped across every scene, like a
bikini stretched over a pair of perky, artificially enhanced tits, just
to remind everyone watching it's a man's world at the top. 

Runner Runner falls into the rapidly growing category of post-GFC films
attempting to relate to the millions of Americans left unemployed and
out on their ass because Lehman Brothers went all in with their savings
and lost, yet it does nothing but rehash the embarrassingly outdated
idea that anyone with a few brains and determination can 'make it in
America'. 

That Hollywood can still serve up this undercooked, horse-sh*t film and
call it a 'smart, sexy thriller' makes me want to crash my car off a
bridge.

'Making it' in this economy is hard enough without wasting any of your
time on this worthless mind slop. Save your money, Runner Runner is a
losing bet.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. I can sit in a theater and watch a
mediocre movie, but when it comes time to write about it, there is no
motivation or appeal. The most positive comment I can make is that it
stars two very pretty men.

This one has "paycheck project" written all over it. Ben Affleck and
Justin Timberlake simply go through the motions as if someone is
feeding them their lines through an ear piece. Gemma Arterton should
never stoop to such a mundane and lifeless role ... though her hair and
make-up are terrific. Only John Heard and Anthony Mackie come across as
professional actors, and their minor roles are so limited, they barely
register.

Writing partners Brian Koppelman and David Levien co-wrote the
excellent Rounders, but this one merely teases the dark underbelly of
online gambling. It has neither the depth, plot or character
development that we would expect from a movie with this premise and
cast. Director Brad Furman showed promise with The Lincoln Lawyer, but
this one comes across as being rushed through production with
faux-style.

The closest comparison I can come up with is last year's Savages,
directed by Oliver Stone ... and even that one was more enjoyable.
Rather than a MPAA warning for Language, I would prefer a heads-up
whenever the filmmaking team really doesn't care much for the project.
At least I could spend my money and time watching a different movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In Princeton, the student Richie Furst (Justin Timberlake) is a former
Wall Street broker that lost everything in the stock market crash a
couple of years ago. Richie supports himself and pays the institution
promoting online gambling in Princeton. When he is denounced by one
student to Dean Alex Monroe (Bob Gunton), Richie receives an ultimatum
and is forced to stop his activity. Further, he decides to bet all his
savings to finance the rest of his graduation. However he loses all his
money and discovers that he has been swindled by the powerful Ivan
Block (Ben Affleck) that owns the site.

Richie travels to a gambling convention in Costa Rica expecting to meet
Ivan, and he meets his lover and employee Rebecca Shafran (Gemma
Arterton) that gives an invitation to him for the party. Richie meets
Ivan that refunds him and invites Richie to work for him. Richie is
seduced by the offer and moves to Costa Rica expecting to become rich.
But soon Richie is pressed down by the unethical FBI Agent Shavers
(Anthony Mackie) that wants to catch Ivan but has no jurisdiction in
the corrupt country. Soon Richie finds the truth about the disloyal
Ivan and he has to find a way out to escape from Ivan and Shavers using
his intelligence and money. 

"Runner Runner" is an underrated and highly entertaining action movie
with a good mouse and cat story with twists and betrayals. Fortunately
I did not pay attention to the bad reviews in IMDb and we saw "Runner
Runner" yesterday in a group of three. Everybody enjoyed this film that
is not a masterpiece but a good entertainment even for a Saturday
night. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Aposta Máxima" ("Maximum Bet")
<|_=00=_|>
As mentioned in a previous review, this film is a bit too familiar to
be an exciting watch. Having said that, the performances, particularly
Affleck, were of good quality and each leading actor portrayed their
characters well. This is not an intelligent nor original film, but the
location and storyline do add a sense of refreshment to the formulaic
'good guy trumps' action/thriller plot. I enjoyed the film. I wasn't on
the edge of my seat, nor was I glued to the screen, but the fact that
we had the whole screening room to ourselves meant that we could quip
freely about what was going on, and this naturally added to my
enjoyment. There were a few unintentionally funny moments, mostly near
the end, but that may be more of a personal observation and many
viewers may have a different view on that. Affleck was convincing and
strong as the shady, ruthless business tycoon and delivered his lines
with appealing finesse. Timberlake was a good choice for the role as an
initially thin-skinned Prinston student, and his development as a
character was well-timed throughout. Overall, I enjoyed the film, but
it's not one I would rave about to friends. 'Prisoners' was showing at
the same time and while I haven't seen it yet, I can say with a
relative degree of certainty that it would be a more compelling and
rewarding watch.
