
Some people really need to get over themselves, judging by some of the
reviews for this film. It is a fantasy based on children's stories -
what the hell were they expecting, Hamlet or Henry V? 

It was a fun ride with plenty of action, plenty of humour, and a great
cast - Chris Hemsworth brings his usual cheery action hero to the mix,
Jessica Chastain was a good addition as The Huntsman's wife, and Emily
Blunt played the fragile Ice Queen wonderfully well. The Dwarfs were
comic relief as always, but it worked well with fewer of them and a
couple of females in the mix.

The story wasn't overcomlicated but if I want that, I'll go watch
Memento. Chill out a little, folks.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why people complain about this one. I went in expecting a
fantasy romp with beautiful but evil queens ... and that's exactly what
I got! In spades! The other thing that stood out is that the actors are
all top shelf. For guys like me, seeing *three* of the most gorgeous
actresses appear together (Emily Blunt, Charlize Theron, Jessica
Chastain) in a movie is a feast for the eyes. And they all can act! The
supporting cast is great (bunch of awesome British guys) as well. The
dialog is light- hearted and the love story believable. On top of all
this, the story is pretty linear and makes sense. (In a fairy tale-way,
of course, but what do you expect?) Most surprisingly, I did feel
emotionally attached to the characters. Each had clear motivations and
I felt for their plight. Lovers get separated then reunited, a mother
loses a child and something snaps inside her, an evil queen wants
revenge and power.

Overall, I can only recommend this movie. You won't get bored for a
second and might even get emotional by the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Long before her death, the sorceress Ravenna learns that her younger
sister Freya is not only engaged in an illicit affair with the Duke of
Blackwood, but is carrying his child, who is destined to become fairest
of them all. Sometime after Freya gives birth to a baby girl, she
discovers that the Duke has murdered their child and, in a grief-fueled
rage, kills him with her long-suppressed ice powers.

Freya abandons the kingdom and builds herself a solitary ice palace
deep in the north, murdering anyone who opposes her while amassing an
army of children and training them so their hearts will be forever
hardened. Eric and Sara, two of her most exceptional warriors, fall in
love and plan to elope, only to learn that Freya is aware of their
secret. She confronts them and creates a massive ice wall to separate
them before forcing Eric to watch as Sara is killed by her fellow
huntsmen.

Seven years after Ravenna's death, King William of Tabor comes across
Eric and informs him that the Magic Mirror was taken while en route to
a place known as "Sanctuary". Eric reluctantly sets off with Nion and
Gryff, two of Snow White's allies, to find the Mirror, unaware that
Freya has been secretly observing their conversation through a mask
that projects her consciousness in the form of a white owl.

While en route, the trio are attacked by a legion of Freya's huntsmen
but are rescued by Sara, who is revealed to have been alive the entire
time. She reveals her death was a vision conjured by Freya in order to
trick him and that she was forced to watch as "Eric" ran away from the
palace. Eric reveals that he never stopped loving Sara and the two
agree to work together. Sometime later, the quartet is ensnared in a
trap laid out by female dwarfs Bromwyn and Doreena, but convince them
to help find the Mirror.

The group reaches the Sanctuary, and they defeat the goblins who
possess the Magic Mirror only to be ambushed by Freya, who reveals Sara
was using them the entire time. In the chaos that follows, Nion and
Doreena are turned into ice statues and Sara reluctantly fires an arrow
into Eric's chest. Freya departs with the Mirror, unaware that Sara
intentionally shot the arrow at a medallion she gave Eric long before,
and that he is still alive.

Meanwhile, Freya approaches the Mirror and recites a spell that causes
a golden liquid to emerge and transform into Ravenna, who reveals she
sent her spirit into the Mirror before Snow White took her life.

Meanwhile, Eric has infiltrated the icy kingdom with help of Gryff and
Bromwyn, and he attempts to murder Freya, but is stopped by Ravenna.
When Freya realizes that Sara hadn't actually killed Eric, she corners
her and because of Ravenna's wishes, sentences them both to death.
However, Eric is able to convince a few huntsmen to fight against
Ravenna and Freya, claiming the love of brethren. After this, Ravenna
kills many huntsmen, and Freya forms an ice wall between the huntsmen
and the sisters. As the remaining huntsmen climb over the wall, the two
sisters argue over the icy kingdom, during which Freya discovers that
Ravenna cursed the Duke of Blackwood into murdering her child rather
than risk someone being more beautiful than her. Freya is filled with
anger at this and turns against her sister, joining forces with Eric
and Sara. Freya is fatally wounded, but not before she freezes the
magic mirror, as Eric throws his axe, breaking the mirror and
destroying Ravenna's spirit. As she dies, Freya witnesses Eric and Sara
together and states they were "lucky" before succumbing to her wounds.

As the kingdom's inhabitants and huntsmen celebrate their victory, a
mysterious golden bird flies overhead, hinting that possibly Ravenna's
spirit still lives.
<|_=00=_|>
The Huntsman: Winter's War is great fodder for fans of the genre; the
slenderly plotted film moves along at a nice pace and the cast do a
decent job with what they're given. Although it's undoubtedly a
cash-grab sequel (do not believe the "before Snow White" marketing), it
manages to argue its case for existing fairly well. Contractual
obligations aside, Hemsworth and Theron resume their roles with great
gusto, with Hemsworth arguably vastly improving on his performance in
the first film. Throw in Emily Blunt and Jessica Chastain and you're
confronted with a pretty enviable - if surprising - cast for a film of
this level.

The basic driving plot of the film is centred on Eric's (the previously
anonymous Huntsman from the first outing) dubiously arranged quest to
locate and return the powerful magic mirror, before it falls into the
wrong (icy) hands. Accompanied by some foul-mouthed dwarfs, the scenes
in the forests and fields are probably some of the better sequences in
the film, if only for their tonal consistency rather than their
originality. These portions of the film focus on action and comedy, and
the camaraderie comes across well enough.

This quest is framed at both the start and end of the film by a strange
and rather hastily delivered - yet nonetheless enjoyable - story of two
sisters and a sad betrayal. Ravenna (Theron) and Freya (Blunt) are
supposedly the closest of siblings who become parted by a very dark
event that awakens a great power within Freya. Fleeing her sister's
kingdom in a mix of despair, anger and confusion, Freya sets up home in
the mysterious "North" and uses her new strength to gather children to
train as her army. It is here that the two stories are tied together,
with stolen children Eric and Sara (Chastain) growing to become two of
her trusted Huntsmen. The scenes in the North are mostly effective and
judiciously used; the muted colour palette here isn't allowed to become
boring, and this mini saga is undoubtedly uplifted by Blunt's delicate
performance. 

If you have seen the trailers for this film and are keen to experience
the full thing, go in with realistic expectations and you'll have a fun
two hours; I am certain that the vast majority of prominent critics
will despise this film, but it wasn't made for them. Yes, it's a
patchwork production of popular elements from other sources and is
generally a rather campy affair, but that's what makes it such an
inoffensive and entertaining film. There is plenty to like here, if you
give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
The cast is nice , Chris Hemsworth , Charlize Theron , Jessica Chastain
and Emily Blunt are all accomplished actors and they did their roles
well. The story had an obvious ending and an obvious twist but then
that's not what the movie was all about. If you want to watch an action
packed fantasy drama with some decent CGI effects and decent acting ,
well you cant discount this film . I personally found this better than
the first one as the first one was tad slower and seemed to drag on a
bit perhaps more so because of snow white and her frozen acting . Here
the frost queen acted more fluidly . I did enjoy the CGI as well
because it was not over used and the colouring of the gold with black
in contrast with the ice queens blue and white went really well. In my
opinion its definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The Huntsman: Winter's War is not too unlike the first movie in one key
way: it doesn't really stick too long in the consciousness once it's
finished. It's not that there is a lack of quality in the craft in this
(sigh) franchise - the first Snow White from 2012 got Oscar nominations
for the costume design and visual effects departments, and it's easy to
see why: the work put into the mirror on its own, this gold thing that
can unfold in liquid on the floor is in the same ball-park as the
T-1000 from decades past, and there is attention paid to all of the
aesthetics in these 'kingdoms'. But with the stories, especially in the
case of Winter's War, there is the sense of sensing a dearth of
original plots. It's not even really a full plot in this film but plot
points: this happens and then this happens and then and then and so on,
and it cribs from Frozen so much that it's hard to ignore.

It's not that everything from the Disney movie is here, but when you
start to describe what this story is about - two sisters in royalty are
split apart when one of them (Emily Blunt this time as the sister to
Charlize Theron's Wicked Queen) loses her son and takes over her
kingdom... which is made of ice since she is the Ice Queen, and she
decrees there can no longer be love because her love is lost, so then
when two people (Hemsworth, returning as the Huntsman, and Jessica
Chastain) fall in love, she splits them apart through trickery and
then... it's actually not a prequel but a sequel which involves finding
the mirror from the last movie (stolen/taken away, I forget which, it's
explained in an exposition dump), and when a big reveal happens for
Hemsworth that (spoiler! not really) Chastain is alive, they decide to
go after the Ice Queen herself.

So there's a lot of plot here, a lot of twists and turns that do occur,
but that main spine isn't too engaging. The Frozen element comes mostly
with the Ice Queen and other characters having a love story happen
where you don't expect it to (or, I should say, they *do* love each
other, but things happen that makes one of them question again if it's
possible and, oh, nevermind). What does still work is the humor; Nick
Frost returns as one of the dwarfs from the last movie (the late Bob
Hoskins is sorely missed though) along with Rob Brydon (remember him
from The Trip movies), and both are spot-on with their comic timing,
their deliveries, just finding the things in the scenes to naturally
liven things up. Some of it's from the dialog, but a good deal of it
feels improvised and when lady dwarfs get introduced into the film
there's some fun stuff there as well.

All the actors are here to work, and I didn't see them exactly bored
during this; Blunt does her best to give her Ice Queen Freya conviction
and villainy (and, later on, some sense of true confusion and
betrayal), but it's hard to go up against Theron when she owns this
role once again of Ravenna. She's not on screen too long, and it feels
just slightly contrived how she returns, but she makes her mark as a
conniving, devilish presence with aplomb. Curiously Kirsten Stewart is
out of this movie, though there are points where it feels like she
*should* be in this, even as a cameo (there is one scene where
technically Snow White is featured, but it's a double of course). This
absence gets felt in a narrative that is all about the other
characters, which is fine, except that the script lets them down with
an adventure-cum-quest-cum-revenge story that feels watered down or
half-baked. And there are even some moments, like with a creature that
the characters come across to find the mirror, that isn't a terribly
convincing special effect.

I almost feel like I need to write this so I don't forget most of the
movie in a few days; it's not *bad* in the sense of it being too stupid
or too illogical (though there are certainly points where you think
'yeah, that's a bad idea to, say, make that jump and hope to connect
with that building even when you know and acknowledge that it's a bad
idea'). If it's bad in any way it doesn't have really any artistic
reason to exist aside from it being another check box for Universal
studio's current Snow White universe property. To put it another way,
when you have Liam Neeson narrating and delivering lines about fairy
tales that felt hackneyed 60 years ago, you know there's an issue with
something that should be made vs could. It's got entertaining bits but
isn't worth rushing out to see unless you're a die-hard fantasy fan,
and even with that there's the sense of derivation (if not from Frozen
there's Game of Thrones as well).
<|_=00=_|>
'Snow White and the Huntsman' from personal opinion was neither a good
or awful film. It was visually stunning and had a terrific Charlize
Theron, but suffered from a badly miscast Kristen Stewart, a clunky
script and muddled story.

'Huntsman: Winter's War' was at times enjoyable, but uneven
prequel/sequel. It has elements that are superior, but also some
inferior elements too. The best asset is the production values. The
film is very beautiful to look at, with luscious but also atmospheric
photography, Gothic but also elegant and rustic set and scenery design
and lavish costumes, particularly Ravenna and Freya. Most of the
special effects are fine, especially the ones for the golden mirror
liquid and ice. There is an exception and that was the forest beast,
which had a cheaply rendered video game look and didn't mesh with the
background.

Once again, James Newton Howard's score complements very well, it's
beautifully orchestrated, rousing, elegiac, atmosphere-enhancing and
very involving. This said, the one for 'Snow White and the Huntsman' is
better and more inspired, the score here also has a few forgettable
moments and doesn't really stand out among other fantasy-adventure
scores and occasionally derivative. There are good performances here,
Emily Blunt's sinister and moving Freya standing out. Another standout
is Charlize Theron, Ravenna is far less developed (Freya is a much more
interesting character here, and the only one that's developed well) and
somewhat one-dimensional as a villain, but Theron makes the most of her
limited screen time, bringing great energy, an at times camp edge
(though mostly there is more subtlety) and menace.

Rob Brydon, Nick Frost and Sheridan Smith bring some welcome comic
relief, this could have easily jarred but was actually a breath of
fresh air. The final twenty minutes are thrilling, and the action is
slickly edited and choreographed.

Other elements are mixed. Cedric Nicolas-Troyan's direction has solid
moments and shows a mastery of visual style, more so than Rupert
Sanders for 'Snow White and the Huntsman', but he isn't quite so good
stopping the pace flagging or smoothing over narrative cracks. Was
mixed on Chris Hemsworth and Jessica Chastain. Hemsworth does have
brooding charisma and looks more comfortable, but has a tendency to
slur his words and his accent sounds like three different ones
constantly changing. Chastain is a great actress and does bring pathos
and nuances to her character, but again her accent is unconvincing,
with a mix of Scottish and Irish. Their chemistry is much stronger than
Hemsworth's and Stewart in 'Snow White and the Huntsman', due to that
there actually is some.

Elements here underwhelm drastically. The script is underwritten,
simplistic and clunky, with many awkward parts and only properly
shining with the dwarfs. The story has some exciting moments, but the
pace badly flags too often with a rambling beginning, over-explanatory
narration and stretches that feel meandering and muddled. Again the
forest beast is poorly done, only Freya is developed well, there are
continuity errors meaning that the film just doesn't fit within the
storytelling and time-line of 'Snow White and the Huntsman' (while it
was a good idea not having Stewart's dead-weight presence in the film,
the absence of Snow White- mentioned only in passing fleetingly- does
leave a gaping hole in the plot) and Sam Claflin is both underused and
out of place.

All in all, uneven film with things that are both good and bad.
5.5-6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Plot/story: Snow White and the Huntsman didn't need a sequel. Or a
prequel for that matter, and this film gives it both. The premise was
already on very shaky ground and the ice started cracking right from
the start. (The opportunities for ice puns are just too good to miss,
I'm afraid). The plot was all over the place. The structure was totally
disarranged (blame the prequel & sequel setup, I guess) and the
narration at the start was not only annoying, it cramped the story as
if it was almost trying to apologise for the film before it started. In
addition, the back story was stupid and weak. Loopholes abounded. There
was too much going-on. It felt cluttered (especially the prequel part),
the whole story was weak, and I found it hard to "suspend disbelief".
Swallowing Blunt and Theron's "god-given powers" and all the magic
without any explanation, twisted my stomach. 

Acting: The acting was decent. (I'll come to Emily Blunt's excellence
just now...). Chris Hemsworth smiled a lot, Charlize Theron was
underused and I thought her performance was halfhearted (she definitely
wasn't on the same level as the first film, I thought). Except, that
one line of hers "Oh Huntsman, I've missed you..." was killer. Jessica
Chastain was definitely a good addition to the cast, and it was clear
she was loving every minute of playing her badass Huntswoman. The
dwarfs were portrayed by two brilliant comedians (Rob Brydon and Nick
Frost) and while they did offer small comic relief, their lines were
frequently short of witty and actual humour. This, however, is the
fault of the script; definitely not the actors, who clearly were trying
their best to work with what they had. And that brings me to...... The
script. The dialogue, to be specific. And the dialogue was really bad
and really boring. Another con: The chemistry between Hemsworth and
Chastain was painfully forced. Chastain tried her best, but it just
didn't work. In fact, there was more chemistry between Chastain and
Blunt than there was between Mr. Huntsman and his stubborn wife. With
the exception of Blunt, none of the actors gave their characters solid
development. In fact, Blunt gave Freya more development in this one
film than Hemsworth and Theron gave their characters in this film and
the previous one combined.

Emily Blunt: Undoubtedly the biggest PRO of the film, only Emily Blunt
can pull off an Ice Queen and still show warmth. She delivered a
brilliant performance, even going so far as to bring tears to my eyes
during the climax and her {SPOILER!} death. Blunt was excellent, heart-
breaking, chilling, and extraordinary. I LOVED her performance. 

Other: The cinematography was totally bland and boring and unoriginal.
I was literally starving for some bright shots of the fantasy world and
some creative angels to showcase Blunt's gorgeous ice powers. ( I kinda
have an obsession with ice scenes. And the potential for good
showcasing in this film made me ache with disappointment..). The action
was good and exciting, but unfortunately it also felt forced, and,
looking at the climax, too short-lived. Still, for the most part the
action/fight scenes were decent and epic. And the CGI was very good. 

Was this film better than Snow White and the Huntsman? Did I prefer it?
I don't know. Chastain and Blunt were brilliant additions, but the
story was weaker. Oh, and on a side note, Halsey's "Castle" during the
credits was a brilliant choice of soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to say at the very beginning that at the base of this
prequel/sequel is a false premise, or a logical fallacy. If one does
remember the first movie, there's no way this one can be truly
connected to the same story and characters. This is simply a story line
that was stretched and contorted so another movie could be created with
Charlize Theron as the evil queen and Chris Hemsworth as the huntsman,
everything else didn't matter, the producers thought they could get
some more money from the struggle between these two and the rest simply
had to fit in. I knew that before I went to see this one, and I was
practically ready to hate it. I didn't. And once again, the main reason
is the acting. To be more precise, it's the three actresses pulling
this unlikely story from start to end. Charlize Theron, once again
menacing and chilling as the evil queen, with less fragility and less
humanity. Which is, in my book the worst fault of this movie: if one
does decide to further develop the characters of the first movie, the
starting point should've been the origins of Ravena's hate for all men,
and of human emotions. The creative team didn't go this way, this in
fact made Ravena a two dimensional cartoon. Only Charlize Theron
brilliance manages to make her somewhat relatable. Then there's Jessica
Chastain as Sara with a performance filled with subtleties and nuances,
managing to look like a fierce warrior and still make us feel she has a
beating heart in her chest. But both Jessica Chastain and Charlize
Theron pale in front of the real standout performance of this film,
that's the one of Emily Blunt. The truth is, she does have the best
written role in the film, and she carries it and in fact the entire
movie all the way through. If only they could do the same for Charlize
Theron, this could've been a real something to see. But even as is, the
movie is surprisingly engaging and entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
The evil Ravenna (Charlize Theron) finds that he sister Freya (Emily
Blunt) is pregnant and in love with a noble. Freya gives birth to a
baby girl but her beloved lover murders the baby and her rage unleashes
ice powers and she kills him. Freya heads to North and builds a palace
and an army that captures children from the villages to be raised as
soldiers without love. Years later, their children Eric (Chris
Hemsworth) and Sara (Jessica Chastain) are grown-up and in love with
each other. They plan to flee from the castle, but Freya finds and
builds an ice wall between them. Eric sees Sara being murdered stabbed
on her back by their friend Tull (Sope Dirisu) and he is dumped in a
frozen river but he survives. Eric, a.k.a. The huntsman grieves the
death of his beloved Sara on a daily basis. One day, Snow White is ill
and her husband seeks out Eric to tell that the Magic Mirror was taken
while carried to a place called Sanctuary. Eric teams-up with two
dwarfs to find the mirror, but they are attacked by Freya army and
saved by Sara that is alive. She tells that she saw Eric leaving her
alone, and he concludes that Freya gave different visions for each of
them. They retrieve the mirror but Sara betrays Eric and Queen Freya
and her army takes the mirror and captures the group. Then she asks
Sara to kill Eric and she follows the order. Whal will happen now that
Freya has the magic mirror?

"The Huntsman: Winter's War" is an entertaining fantasy full of action
with great cast and special effects. The plot is a prequel of "Snow
White and the Huntsman" with Ravenna and the Huntsman, and introducing
Freya and Sara. The film may not be recommended by professional critics
but fortunately I am amateur. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Caçador e a Rainha do Gelo" ("The Huntsman and the
Ice Queen")
