
Do not, I repeat, Do not fall for the made up 10 star reviews...( It's
obvious those affiliated with producing this garbage want to pique the
interest of others so they give fake ratings & reviews, hoping others
will be interested enough to see it- & they make more $$) Take it from
me, Wasting my $ & time on this terrible so-called "movie" left me
leaving the theater very upset I wasted $ on this trash & annoyed. All
found myself wanting to do, was to drop-kick the blonde,
camera-holding, guy. (.Whoever decided THAT guy has any talent in
acting, needs to have their heads examined.,I can only surmise he has a
family connection or paid to be in the film) The story/ acting was way
too cheesy to be scary. I have nothing positive to say about this film.
It was just plain junk. When I went to see it, it was opening weekend,
therefore, there weren't many reviews or ratings accumulated to get a
real idea of whether or not it was going to be any good. I believe this
crap actually had a 6.1 rating...Now, for horror movies- I considered
that to be relatively high ( even from just a couple hundred ratings)
Wow, was I duped!! Now,after seeing ( most of ) the movie ( ended up
walking out, it was THAT BAD) and then seeing the 10 star reviews, I
KNOW the ratings on here can't be trusted...( until you see at least
5,000 - 10,000 people rated it) SO- save your $ , time & irritation
-skip this boring, sad excuse & find something better...
<|_=00=_|>
Remember back when the found footage style was a unique style of
filmmaking and only a handful of films used it? (I.E. The Blair Witch
Project, Paranormal Activity, Rec.) But it's common knowledge nowadays
that it's become a cliché and a cheap gimmick for studios to save on
production costs. Most of the time, there is almost no effort put into
the film's storyline, characters, or scares. The Gallows certainly
doesn't help its case. 

Pros:

-A few decent performances

-Good production design

-Has the potential to be scary

Cons: 

-Insufferable main character

-Bullshit plot twist that makes no sense

-Plot itself is nonsensical

-Relies on cheap jump scares

-Has a few good ideas, but they're usually screwed up somehow.

-Found footage style is given no explanation

3/10 (Horrible)
<|_=00=_|>
So apparently the plot of this movie is that in 1993 a school is doing
a play called the Gallows. The character August played by Charlie
Grimille something goes wrong with the props and everyone sees Charlie
being hung dying infront of everyone. So in the film 20 years later
which would place the film year 2013 the play is revived i am guess as
a tribute to charlie. 4 Students break into the school at night and are
haunted by a unseen spirit.

There is so many things wrong with that i don't know where to being.
The acting is decent i will give that to them. But the whole movie
lacks really much of a story. Pfeifer tells Ryan your not suppose to
say Charlie on stage it is bad luck kinda like a Macbeth thing. Okay
fine and well but why is it bad luck? Why can't you say it has the play
ever been done after the accident? How did they get the idea to redo
the play? When Reese discovers his father was suppose to play August
not Charlie question remains why did his father call in sick? Was it
truly a accident or what? If one of the students is suppose to be
Charlie's kid born after his death wouldn't that put them being 19 or
20 call me dumb but by then you should be out of school. This movie is
just so awful really don't waste your time watching it. Don't bother
reading the "Fake positive reviews" Because shows people don't know
true horror movies.

I always said a horror movie doesn't always need blood, gore, nudity
etc long as it has a great story behind it a story that does not leave
more questions then answers. This movie lacks that as you get more
questions then you do answers. Found Footage movies should either go
away or be made to look better then this bs! So i give this movie a F
actually it is so bad it really doesn't deserve a grade
<|_=00=_|>
Haven't watched a horror film in a long time & decided to go check this
one out. I almost left after 45 minutes but decided to stick out ,
since I paid for the ticket. Huge mistake, this movie wasn't even
remotely scary at all or suspenseful. Camera work was annoying &
distracting. Highly do not recommend if you're older than 15.
Characters were not likable at all, so you really didn't care when on
of them died. The "scary parts" were predictable and very juvenile,
mainly included sudden loud noises or a person appearing out of
nowhere. Very lazy script in my opinion, not much originality. I
honestly don't understand how a movie like this could ever make it to
the big screen, if this is the future of horror movies , then I just
watched my last one.
<|_=00=_|>
The teaser trailer for this film was great and I was looking forward to
what looked like a savage and rather nasty horror film.

Sadly I found The Gallows to be utterly tragic in every way. The film
is another entry in the overcrowded found footage genre and the story's
cameraman was obnoxious and idiotic right from the start.

All the characters here are paper-thin and clichéd, they make stupid
decisions to put themselves needlessly in peril.

But generally there isn't much peril, or danger, or scares.
Distractingly amateurish, The Gallows looked as if it was shot for
fifty quid in a spare weekend.

It's very annoying to pay a lot of money to see a film as awful as this
in the cinema, because it's not even worth a rental.

Avoid paying to see the full film and just watch the trailer for free,
that way you won't feel robbed.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "The Gallows" with low expectations, but at least expecting to
see a decent horror movie, based on the IMDb User Rating (4.3).
However, the film is awful in every aspect: the storyline is poor; the
twist is nonsense and ridiculous; the screenplay is terrible. The
camera of this cheap "found footage" genre is a pretext to produce low
quality films with low cost. In this movie, there is no explanation for
the use of the handy cam. Sometimes I question why I see flicks like
this to the very end since time is irreversible and life is too short
to spend watching low-quality films (like this one)! My vote is one
(awful).

Title (Brazil): "A Forca" ("The Gallows")
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty years ago in the small town of Beatrice, there was a terrible
accident that took place during a presentation of the play "The
Gallows" at the High School.

Charlie Grimille, who was the understudy, filled in for the lead on
opening night, but ended up swinging from the noose on stage during
curtain calls.

In an attempt to honour the anniversary, Beatrice High School's drama
department decides to revive the play in an attempt to put the past to
rest.

Pfeifer, the star of the show, discovers her co-star, Reese, and a few
of his friends, sabotaging the props one night. But when they are
locked in the school with no cell service and no way out, they soon
discover Charlie isn't at peace.....

When I first saw the trailer for this, I was completely blown away. It
was terrifying, and straight to the point. Boom!! The Gallows, girl
gets noose around neck and gets dragged away. Trailer done..

The film is very different, different as its a complete mess, poorly
written, poorly acted, and quite incoherent. We basically spend the
mercifully short duration watching teens waste their phone Batteries
filming pointless walking back and forth down corridors.

On the odd occasion there is a figure holding a noose, but what's
horrid about it is that it looks like Kane Hodder on occasion, and
totally throws you.

The characters are wholly unlikable, and it all ends like you'd expect
from a film that cannot decide where to go, abruptly.

The bit from the trailer is there, and it's still good, but your eyes
will be so rolled back in disbelief that you'll probably miss it.
Better still, just watch the trailer, you'll save yourself less anger
than having to sit through this rubbish.
<|_=00=_|>
Now as far as ghost antagonists go, The Gallows wasted what could have
been a decent horror entity. Freddy Kruger had his bladed
glove/gauntlet, Leather-face his chainsaw, and this vengeful spirit had
a noose which could be placed around a victim's neck without notice
(even be invisible) and violently pull them in any direction(not just
up). COMPLETELY sounds like my type of horror film, armed to the teeth
with potential for "heebie jeebiez" or chills up one's spine. This
flick wasted that potential. The shaky cam thing is waaaaaaay to
overdone at this point, this film might as well have been shot on a
quickly-becoming-obsolete-smart-phone's camera. Give one to each
character to justify all the nauseating shakes and movement. This is
the worst I have ever seen in the found footage realm, as if nothing
had been learned from other found-footage failures. Not a singular fook
will be given about these characters by any viewer, and the rational
driving this "shin-dig"/plot will anger you. I can't comprehend the
premise to making this film, but as I said the Ghost's weapon of
choice(obviously his own demise as well) was decent so...2 outta 10 for
a fifth...and if "IF" was a fifth, we'd all be drunk instead of
watching this. d-_^b
<|_=00=_|>
Despite of the good Sound effect, the whole movie is such a failure.
The casts so terrible with silly dialogs, and especially the camera
effect. I'm totally fine with Paranormal Activity but this one...NO!!
The camera so damn annoyed, it made my gf felt so dizzy after 1 and
half hour watching it, and actually she did vomit when she got home. I
also could not stand the camera, even I play FPS quite oftenly. Because
of this stupid shaky camera style, I could not enjoy the whole scary
things of this movie. By the way, about the theme scene (from poster)
with the guy holding a gallow behind her back, the way the actress
cries is so fake and I have no idea why she has to zoom the whole face
to the screen so that everyone can see how suck it is. Such a waste of
money..
<|_=00=_|>
I knew The Gallows would be bad. I knew that it wasn't going to be my
cup of tea but I love the movies that much that this was the only thing
left I hadn't seen so in I went. It wasn't the worst thing I've ever
laid eyes on but its the worse thing I've seen in the theatres in a
very, very long time. I am constantly amazed how these films are still
managing to get wide theatrical releases. I absolutely despise the
"found footage" genre. Please kill this genre!! I mean, the movie is
bad enough but add in the stupid concept of "this is real, this was
filmed on iPhones" or whatever and it is even worse. Actually, if they
just filmed this and any other found footage film like a normal movie
it would be exponentially better. I've seen movies that had decent
enough stories that are literally ruined by the found footage style.
Yes it saves money but how many people would see it and enjoy it more.
The Gallows though is poorly written, poorly paced with some very
moments of terribly bad acting. It feels like it takes forever to get
to the point (another usual issue with these movies) because they are
dragging out a concept that doesn't have enough to be feature length.
The Gallows further suffers by the fact that they try to give it an
intellectual plot twist that is ridiculous and eye-rolling.

The actors all portray people with their real names...because that
makes it more real? They all have their moments where they are decent
and are properly portraying their horribly stereotypical high school
roles. Ryan Shoos is our main "popular kid" bully who films most of the
movie. He is appropriately obnoxious and by the time he gets killed off
you're actually glad to see him go because he's such a bully but he
also gives one of the better performances in the film too. Reese
Mishler is the misunderstood jock turned "theatre geek" and he is okay
and has these big puppy dog eyes but man oh man does he have some
moments of really bad acting. It almost seems like they had no script
and suddenly he has no idea what to say. Its ironic that part of the
film is how bad of an actor he is on stage in this play because his
portrayal is equally as bad. Pfeifer Brown plays opposite him as his
love interest and fellow theatre geek. She suffers from the same fate
where some of her dialogue seems to get lost and she stumbled through
not knowing what to say next. They have no chemistry but she does
better than some of them. Cassidy Gifford certainly looks the role of
the popular cheerleader, the girl is a stunning beauty and actually she
gives a decent performance. I would almost consider her the scream
queen of the film because her emotional break down is at least
believable. She perhaps overplays it just a little but she's still at
least decent.

Every movie of this type is trying to carbon copy the only great found
footage film and that was The Blair Witch Project. And then they
attempt to copy the biggest financial success which is the Paranormal
Activity franchise (entirely over-rated as well) so you have a blend of
these two things and then they are trying to be creative and unique
which I am convinced in this genre is literally impossible. Every scene
feels the same and while there are a couple of jump-worthy moments and
one particularly creepy scene (which has been done before too and
better) the movie falls flat. I was bored...it was forgettable and I
thought to myself several times that they needed to get on with it and
that's a bad sign. The film is squarely aimed at a late teen
demographic with the girls showing plenty of cleavage and the
characters being so stereotypically "teen." It doesn't surprise me in
the least that writing directing team Travis Cluff and Chris Lofing are
just making their foray into big screen but my question is HOW?!? How
do they get this very very average straight to video fluff released
into theatres? And it makes money because it is so cheap to make. Don't
waste your theatre cash on this...watch it at home if you must or if
you're one of those die hard fans of this awful horror genre. It was
forgettable and silly but wasted a couple of hours for me I guess. 5/10
