
I have seen an obscene amount of Horror films and a crazy amount that
are Cam. I expected this film to be similar to Paranormal Activity -
The Marked One which i found to be okay, nothing too special... But
immediately from the start realised it was to take a much different
tone, which not only was new and fresh for the Cam Horror genre but
also to films in general. The film feels fun, fresh and upbeat from the
start with a good use of SFX showing a real 'College Movie' vibe then
quickly becomes engrossing and dark with plot twists and turns that
offer something new to this over produced genre.

Would Recommend
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a good example of what storytelling, believable
narrative,character interplay and balanced action is ALL about. I was
unacquainted with the sub-genre of this film and went into it expecting
to let it unfold as a cautionary tale, in a similar manner as the movie
Contracted. It is really rare,in my opinion, to actually stay
interested as a film develops its characters and back-story. The solid
acting, quirky dialog,pace and storyline are interesting enough that
the viewer is content to watch as Derek and Clif prepare to undertake
filming the vacation of a lifetime. Afflicted manages to avoid
sticky,boring clichés and deliver some real thrills as the story and
palpable desperation begins to unfold. Without giving away too much of
the plot, I will say that this movie is EASILY one of my favorites in a
much over-used genre, and the sympathetic, believable protagonists in
the film will really keep you caring what happens to them next. Stick
around for the credits and enjoy this refreshing, intense and superbly
done film. Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
AFFLICTED (2013) *** Found-footage horror flick that manages to breathe
new life into the tired sub-genre thanks to newbie tag-team filmmakers
(and real-life buds) Derek Lee and Clif Prowse as the duo embark upon a
globe-trotting journey into fear, when Lee's encounter with a
beautiful woman (Baya Rehaz) has disastrous results - namely
transforming him into a vampire. While the cheeky team acquits itself
in acknowledging the mythos of nosferatu it upends it as well in the
process involving some jaw-dropping special visual effects in spite of
the at-times shaky-cam viewpoint. With this calling-card feature length
debut lets hope this inventive creative duo not fall into the BLAIR
WITCH trap of being a one-trick pony and continue a promising budding
career as filmmakers. Creepy good!
<|_=00=_|>
Its funny every time i get on these review sites I am trying to get
some inclining if i should spend some money to watch a movie. Anyhow,
Saw Afflicted last night and well i have to say this ... this movie was
well done ... i was not wondering if or when will it be over. I had
some scare moments which is always good for that lets me now that the
suspense to get to that part was well worth it. 

Now, I don't want to spoil any parts for it is an original concept ...
and this is no Blair Witch ( which i left before the end ) as some
reviews mentioned ...this was a great concept story line was original
and doing it on a limited budget what they did was awesome... this well
worth the time...
<|_=00=_|>
A strangely constructed film that climaxes halfway through, then spends
what may be a record amount of time squeezing in a scooby-doo ending
that just keeps going on, draining any momentum out of the first half.

The lead character, who begins as a sympathetic figure, ends up merely
irritating and whiny. I would have preferred not knowing how and why he
was afflicted. The last half of the film is spent trying to find the
answer and the result is anti-climactic and pointless. I also can't
help but notice the influence of V/H/S's "Amateur Night". The Sexy
Demonic Seductresses is a tired trope. It was disappointing to see it
here.

Can I also add, if we are going to keep up with the found-footage,
pseudo-doc genre, can we at least start to attempt to maybe try to
bring some common sense into play and have characters infused with
enough common sense to know when to stop filming and just run? Or get
help? I like found-footage and pseudo-docs. Just find a new angle.
Literally. If my body is rotting away and I am killing people, I won't
be too concerned with carrying a camera around. Someone find a new
approach to this please.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost 15 years since "The Blair Witch Project" pretended to document
an ill-fated journey into the woods, its impact is felt more deeply
than ever. The found footage horror genre technically pre-dated the
digital filmmaking boom by nearly two decades (with 1980's "Cannibal
Holocaust") but the age of user-generated footage, when everyone with a
smartphone has one trigger finger ready to hit record, has made the
device too ubiquitous for its own good.

The two actors performances are credible enough to legitimize the
terror, only stumbling when they glare directly into the camera and
profess their fears (a "Blair Witch" cliché that has run its course,
the confessional moment is the worst example of overstatement). Derek's
ensuing plight across the continent, in which he scales buildings and
nimbly evades various countries' police forces, suggests "Cloverfield"
by way of "American Werewolf in London," but lacks the same wry,
self-deprecating humor of the John Landis classic. Instead, directors
Proswe and Lee established a macabre scenario and then uses it as an
excuse to run wild with the production values, piling up a series of
impressive chase scenes and showdowns involving characters with the
powers to scale buildings and hurl bodies across the room. It's a
superficial delight to watch "Afflicted" gradually ramp up its effects
work, and while the scares don't sink too deep, the movie offers
surefire confirmation of found footage horror's latest stage.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first spotted this movie I figured it would be right up my
alley. Although i'm picky about horror movies I do enjoy them, and
unlike many it seems, I find the "found footage" style of movie-making
intriguing. Overall, Afflicted delivers an entertaining experience
throughout, but in my opinion has a few specific fall backs. 

First of all, while the acting was mostly good throughout, there were
certain scenes where I felt things were a bit cheesy. That isn't my
favorite descriptive word, but it happened to be the first that came to
mind when thinking about it so I think it fits. Considering the filming
style and what i'm assuming was a low budget, they do deserve credit
for making a believable pseudo-documentary about their journey, but not
everything had me swayed into thinking "yeah, this definitely feels
unscripted and completely natural". Considering that this is the basic
premise of "found footage" style films, to make the viewer feel like
they are watching a real person instead of an actor, "Afflicted" falls
short in a few areas which detract from the overall viewing experience
in my humble opinion. 

My second issue centers around the progression of the film. "Afflicted"
starts off really strong, pacing the story along perfectly as you watch
the characters depart on their journey and document the various places
they visit. Things continue well until one of the main characters comes
down with the "affliction" aforementioned in the movie title. From
there, things tend to be less harmonious. Soon the story quickens, and
you are left with parts that don't always seem to connect well. Certain
scenes could have been omitted completely in my opinion. 

Despite a few missteps, I have to say I quite enjoyed this movie. It's
not perfect, but hey, few horror films usually are these days. I give
the creators a ton of kudos for making a found footage film that
actually doesn't suck, as there have unfortunately been many over the
years(and a few good ones as well I might add). I would recommend this
film to fans of the horror/mystery genre, or for anyone wanting to
watch an entertaining, albeit different, type of movie. 

It kept me interested from start to finish, and I give it a solid 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't very interested in watching Afflicted, because I'm already a
bit tired of the pseudo-documentary technique, specially on horror
cinema. However, to my surprise, Afflicted ended up being an excellent
film with solid performances, good production values and an ingenious
screenplay which presents its classic premise on a fresh and quite
creative way... without forgetting, of course, the horror and suspense
which are frequently absent in this kind of films. Many modern
filmmakers think that the pseudo-documentary technique is an excuse to
do the things badly, but co-directors and co-screenwriters Derek Lee
and Clif Prowse show a considerable discipline to keep the narrative
logical and consistent, with enough style to make it visually
interesting and (finally!) realistic and pleasant characters I truly
empathized with. I would also like to mention the perfect use of
European locations. Instead of secluding us to generic woods or an
abandoned building, Lee and Prowse set the paranormal events in varied
and picturesque settings. As for the mentioned paranormal events, I
prefer not to reveal them, because before watching Afflicted, I knew
practically nothing about the plot, and it was exciting to be
unraveling the mystery at the same time of the main characters. In
summary, Afflicted is a hidden gem which left me very satisfied on the
dramatic and visceral levels, and also left me surprised with the
quality of its manufacture. I wish we could see independent horror
cinema made with such a talent behind and in front of the cameras more
frequently.
<|_=00=_|>
I must be honest, I am watching this right now on Netflix, and I am
really overwhelmed by frustration, the one-note joke wears really thin
around the 45;00 mark. 

Pity since with all its limitations (number one being lack of
originality) this little film has some very effective moments, showing
that the filmmakers are not completely untalented... but with a
relentlessly lazy script, it is a true test of endurance and patience
that I am not sure I want to brave till the very end... 

And then...

As the action crosses the Italian/French border and it becomes a quest
for Audrey... the film becomes unexpectedly good, so much so that I
forgave the filmmakers for what they put me through up to that point. 

Final verdict? Although with some very strong initial reservations, I
ended up liking this little movie quite a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
Clif takes his terminally ill buddy Derek on a one year tour of the
world. When they hit Paris Derek meets a beautiful woman at a nightclub
and takes her back to his room, only to be attacked by her.

He begins undergoing some transformations and the the 2 travellers are
plunged into an absolute nightmare of horror.

This found footage movie differs from others in that it offers a solid
plot, well developed characters, and a great story as things progress
very quickly from bad to worse.

The low budget doesn't show as the special effects are very well done.
A very fun film. 8/10
