
It should be noted that "The Mistress" follows a fairly typical build
up of story for a Tagalog (Philippines) movie. This is a classic love
story combined with heartache, betrayal, forgiveness. difference in
social status and class, and love against all odds.

The story is about Sari (played by Bea Alonzo), a seamstress who dreams
of having her own business. Sari is having an affair with an older,
married man named Rico Torres (played by Ronaldo Valdez). Rico's wife,
Regina (played by Hilda Koronel), knows about her husbands affair but
does little about it. Then one day the persistent JD (played by John
Lloyd Cruz) comes into Sari's life and turns her world upside down.
However, there is more to JD's background than initially shown.

This is a standard and generic love story that can be seen in many
other movies of the same genre - and in many Tagalog movies, in
particular. But it does work out nicely enough, because the story is
good and well directed by Olivia M. Lamasan. Plus the cast members
really did good and convincing jobs with their given roles and
characters.

The characters were nicely detailed and were well connected through the
storyline. Each character brought their own unique touch and aspect to
the story, which was great. Without believable and realistic
characters, a movie like this would just be wooden and hollow.

If you can look past the clichés and the textbook storyline, then "The
Mistress" is actually an entertaining movie, and the two hours seem to
go by quickly without a dull moment. I was thoroughly entertained by
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why philippines always make the same movie, all about love
with pretty cast as always. Love, betrayal, heartbreak and all other
cliché. Maybe pinoy audiences love this kind of movie so lets let it
be.

This movie actually have a great potential to be a great movie but too
many hole to fill make this movie look tired with its duration, sure
need some director's cut for unnecessary part. It will be okay if they
make it simple and hard because seriously I don't fell sad at all. More
like a drama and just suitable to be a television drama. I gave it 5
cause its no so bad but too cliché and little bit boring love story.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to know why Cruz is so popular in the Philippines. Is he
handsome? No. Is he a good actor? No. So why the hell is he all over
the Phils? Please, tell me that.

The story is about a Filipina who is the mistress of a wealthy
corporate executive, who is the father of a man who falls for the
Filipina. Duh, so things get complicated when both men vie for the
woman's affections, and things are worse because both men happen to be
father and son. 

It seems Philippine movies tend to gravitate toward this type of trash
with this type of third-rate actor like Cruz. I hope for a change.
