
It was a very well written script with excellent acting by the lead
pair. Evan Rachael was flawless in her portrayal with some great
support by Scott. Its very different than your average Rom-com but does
fall prey at some areas to the regular formula film making.
Nevertheless a movie that's light & frothy which will end up making you
feel for the characters. Its a good choice for a refresher after a
day's long work to just unwind. The cinematography and music were also
working well with the script. The direction was top notch and it looked
like the director knew what he wanted from his actors. I wouldn't
really mind watching it again sometime. A surprise package indeed, go
for it !!!
<|_=00=_|>
There are very few movies that make u leave smiling when it ends n this
is surely one of them. The actress Evan Rachel wood looks stunning
natural beauty with natural emotions and a very lovable level of
innocence , the story is different from usual boy meets girl romantic
genre, movie is edgy with some cute lines ,handling the issue of home
locked person with a scizopernic mother beautifully,the actor looks
smart and has acted well,this is a movie id love to watch some other
time too . 

i recommend it to every one who is looking forward for a nice out of
the box romantic movie .
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie last night not knowing what to expect. I briefly
read the premise and thought I'd take a chance and watch it. In a word,
I was not disappointed. I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoys just a
good, simple, plain vanilla romantic movie. If you're not into that,
then you wouldn't appreciate this movie.

The movie starts out kind of slow and slowly builds momentum. Granted,
the acting is not the greatest I've seen, the story line is not fluid;
it's broken up and has plot holes and just not developed very well.
It's supposed to be a comedy, but didn't find it hilarious. It's more
cute than funny.

However, and a big however, all things considered, I liked the movie. I
found it heart-warming and love does conquer all after all. I didn't
over analyze it or read too much into it. I just accepted it for what
it is and enjoyed it over all.
<|_=00=_|>
As a German movie fan I am familiar with Til Schweiger's original
'Barfuss' (2005). But since I always try to keep an open mind I was
intrigued to see this remake - and I wasn't disappointed.

'Barefoot' - as an americanized version - tells the story a little bit
different and dips more into the romantic (comedy) genre. That's fine
by me because a mere copy of Schweiger's film would be pretty
redundant. Evan Rachel Wood plays beautifully and portrays an adorable
innocence in her role as 'Daisy', the mental patient accompanying Scott
Speedman's 'Jay' to his brothers wedding. Their unusual bond is sweet
and the movie has more of a light romantic dramedy tone than the
original. The colors are warm and the tempo is upbeat but slows down
for some nicely done heart-to-heart scenes. I especially loved the
setup of certain pivotal scene towards the end.

I can already hear all those serious movie 'critics' moaning about yet
another unnecessary remake but that's just it - this remake is not
unnecessary. It tells a similar story with a different tone, in a
different light, with a different background - transitioning it to a
lighter genre. It's not taking anything away from the original - I see
it as more of a bonus and really liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
Some reviews on here criticise that the male protagonist learns that
you can just continue behaving badly until it pays off. I think those
reviewers miss the point rather spectacularly. They're demanding the
formula they've come to expect - no doubt if the movie WAS as perfectly
formulaic as they expect they'd almost certainly criticise this too.

Personally, I felt that the male character DOES progress so the
criticism is unwarranted on both levels.

Personally, I loved this movie. Woods acting is wonderful and she
portrays the naive female lead expertly. All the characters were
believable.

It's a lovely rom-com with less than perfect characters and which
doesn't force morality down your throat... for this reason alone I
consider barefoot refreshing.
<|_=00=_|>
Take all of the innocence, and sweetness of Pretty Woman, and then make
it feel real, and you will be getting close to the precious movie that
this is. Evan Rachel Wood seems to have gotten younger, and is just so
radiant as Daisy who is so like a little child that we meet on her
first day in the real world. Scott Speedman is just great as the
scatterbrained lead Jay, always looking over his shoulder, and running
for the next bit of scraps as his life is slowly rotting away under
him. The two come together at the best time for each, and we are taken
with them on a sweet and tender journey in which they will both be the
cure that the other one needs. To say I Enjoyed this would sell it
short. I really loved this movie, and recommend it to everyone. There
is a bit of language, and some minor violence. Beyond that you just
have one great story with a fantastic cast who are all as real as you
could hope for, but that still has a little bit of magic that every
story needs.
<|_=00=_|>
You cannot be more down to earth than having no shoes and socks on.
Barefoot is being risky, because you're expose yourself to getting hurt
(a lot). But it also means you feel things on a different level, you
probably enjoy things more than others, since you are more connected to
things and letting them in.

Evan Rachel Woods is terrific in playing the innocent, quirky character
in this one. And she kind of steals the show, though Scott Speedman is
our central character, who's the one learning life lessons and not the
other way around. Even though this is predictable, you root for things
to happen and cannot help but feel elevated at times or being sad with
the characters too. The connection is there, if you allow it to happen
<|_=00=_|>
Don't look too deeply. This is a movie that wants to be fun and
adventurous and a little bit dangerous. If you're in the right mood,
you don't need much more than that. Sure it's ridiculous and
implausible and poorly edited, and Scott Speedman only has two gears,
and the writing is a little off, and the central relationship is a
little creepy on several different levels. No matter. This is one of
those movies that is touched by the magic of the movies -- maybe not
enough to make it great or even good as a movie, but it has a
relentless sparkle-eyed charm that makes it pleasant and irrationally
satisfying as an experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Barefoot is a heartwarming and feel good rom-com with a twist. it ain't
just another love story, but digs just a little bit deeper into themes
of mental health, and the power of love to change one's course of this
life. While my first encounter with the story came with the German
Barfuss movie back in 2005, and while I still much prefer the German
version (the soundtrack alone was a star in itself in that version) to
this one, I was very satisfied with what Barefoot managed to achieve. I
love the actors, both Scott Speedman and especially Evan Rachel Wood,
gave a very strong and convincing performances. After watching the
movie I felt elevated and heart-warmed, and for this lingering feel
good sensation I give this movie 9 out of 10, and recommend it to any
one looking for a good rom-com not following the standard rom-com
formula all the way.
<|_=00=_|>
Jay Wheeler (Scott Speedman) lives up to his name as a wheeler-dealer.
A son of wealthy New Orleans stock, he has chosen to run up gambling
debts and pursue other nefarious actions. This lands him in jail, where
he is sentenced to community service at a mental hospital. While
mopping the floors, he saves a pretty patient, Daisy (Evan Rachel Wood)
from being assaulted by a male resident of the same ward. Not long
after this, his gambling totals are so large that the casinos are after
him. His only recourse is to go back home for his brother's wedding,
where he will ask his father for a "business loan". But, needing to
look the part of a successful gentleman, Jay decides he needs a lady on
his arm. All of the pole dancers of his acquaintance turn him down so
he gets the brilliant idea to bring DAISY, after she follows him out
the door one night. Is he serious? Yes, she's highly functional but may
have killed her mother, also a disturbed individual. With instructions
to tell everyone she is a nurse, can Daisy and Jay pull this ruse off?
Not likely, and soon other escapades follow. Meanwhile, the hospital's
head shrink (JK Simmons) is throwing fit after fit. Is there a future
for this strange couple? This remake of a German film has a great
concept and a winning performance from Wood to elevate its eventual
loss of energy. What fun to have a "crazy" woman pose as a gal pal at a
high society wedding! Speedman does fine work, too, as do Treat
Williams, Simmons, Kate Burton and more. As the scenery goes from
California to Louisiana to Texas and back again, fans of varied venues
will be happy, too. Yes, the flick slows down and loses focus in the
second half but still will resonate with a certain kind of offbeat film
lover. So, if that's you, get shoes on and go get Barefoot.
