
So once again, after the debacle of Prometheus, Ridley Scott has proved
himself simultaneously a master of visuals and yet utterly incompetent
when it comes to creating a believable Alien story.

The single biggest problem I had with Prometheus was the collection of
imbeciles and weirdos that made up the crew, and one might have hoped
that Mr Scott would have realised that himself and made amends this
time round. Errr.... no, sadly not. Once again we're treated to a crew
of simpletons who make THE MOST pathetic and unbelievable decisions
possible. Are we really supposed to believe that a crew would just
ditch it's primary mission (that we're told had been over 10 years in
the planning to ensure their destination was safe, etc) just because
they happened to stumble on a new planet purely by chance? Just plain
ludicrous. And that's just the start. A few more examples :

- Assuming we suspend our disbelief and accept the whole "let's risk
all the colonists and everything we have planned for decades for to
land on this new unknown planet instead" premise, why do these alleged
scientists once again TOTALLY disregard the need for any protective
clothing? So no breathing equipment, nothing at all to protect them
from any alien pathogens. Good thinking!

- Faced with a choice of sending either an android, or pretty much the
entire human crew with no protective gear, to investigate an alien
world, who should go? Yeah that's right, send all the unprotected
humans!

- Choice of landing right near the source of the unknown signal, or
land several miles away and in a foot of water despite there being
solid and flat ground a few feet away? Yep, it's wet feet and a huge
hike all round folks!

- Little alien pods on this alien world puffing their alien spores into
the air? Sure, just get your nose in there and have a good sniff. I'm
sure it'll be fine!

- Crewmen get infected by said spores? Don't worry about any quarantine
procedures, just carry them back to the ship while getting covered in
their vomited-up blood.

- Alien organism just burst out of said infected crewman? Just open up
the locked door and try to shoot it, but be careful you don't miss at
point blank range and then slip up on the blood.... twice. (When that
happened, people actually laughed in the cinema. I was half expecting a
comedy sound effect the second time!)

- Tens of thousands of dead bodies, and an enormous dead city solely
inhabited by David the android from the Prometheus mission, that the
planetary scan managed to NOT pick up from orbit when determining the
planet to be "safe"? No need to ask David what happened, just accept
that it's all fine.

- Dark basements to go into all on your own? Do it! Nothing bad will
happen.

- Huge alien eggs opening in front of you? Just have a good look
inside. What could possibly go wrong?!

The list of stupid decisions just goes on and on AND ON!

While visually the film is generally excellent, the all-CGI-Alien was a
huge let-down. Personally I found it considerably less convincing than
the practical effects used in Alien and Aliens, which is unforgivable
considering the creature is what these films are all about!

Additionally the crew, apart from being imbeciles (as is usual under Mr
Scott's direction these days), are also completely forgettable. I saw
this movie last night and I can't remember a single character's name
today. The one exception is David/Walter, and once again Fassbender
does a great job. (Perhaps that's why there's two of them - to make up
for a lack of any other decent characters).

The other problem narrative-wise is that both Prometheus and Covenant
have actually served to make the Alien universe much SMALLER in my
opinion. In the original Alien and Aliens, the creature was just an
unknown organism from the far reaches of the universe, and all the more
scary because of it. (The same went for the Space Jockey for that
matter). But these new movies have tried to tie it all back to humanity
in some way - i.e. the Engineers (who are also the Space Jockeys)
created both humanity and the black oil virus, and then the Xenomorph
was apparently created by David (who was in turn created by man)
somehow doing some genetic tinkering with the black oil and human DNA,
while living in a cave and playing with his flute. Far from expanding
the Alien universe, both these prequels have actually shrunk it by
making man the centre of everything, while at the same time managing to
sanitise and neuter one of the greatest movie creatures of all time. So
what Ridley Scott is saying is that the entire Alien series and the
iconic Xenomorph itself was just created by a deranged android with
God/daddy issues. How very pathetic and disappointing. I personally
hate it when movies try to explain everything to the millionth degree
because it invariably ends up as a massive anticlimax. What was wrong
with the Xenomorph just being some hideous unknown life-form from the
far reaches of space???

I could go on and on, but there's a word limit here.

Lastly, the end is just pretty feeble and anticlimactic. The CG- Alien
just kind of gets killed and that's it. And the *ahem* "twist" with
David/Walter could be seen from a mile away, although David wouldn't
have had anywhere near enough time to cut his own arm off and change
his clothes and hairstyle.

Please PLEASE Mr Scott, stand aside and let Neill Blomkamp have his
shot at an Aliens sequel.

A generous 2 Stars. One for the visuals that are once again gorgeous,
and one for a great effort from Fassbender.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not worth the money. Its the worst Alien movie i have
seen and i have seen all Alien (xenomorphs) movies.

You don't care about the characters and they are so god damn stupid all
the time! My god its an insult to watch and they flushed all the lore
down the drain. 

This movie is about droids and not aliens or the engineers. It does not
explain anything at all and it totally kills Prometheus handling.

Im happy Sigourney Weaver did not sign up for this crap.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say. I was more eager than ever to see this film. The
trailers were great (if not slightly spoiler filled) I was super keen
on seeing Danny McBride playing a serious role, and I was more than
eager to see something that would pull the Alien up from the nose dive
it have become. 

But when the credits rolled, oh man was I disappointed. This movie is
actually a massive step down from Prometheus.

The problems with this film are vast, but some struck me more than than
others. For one, it actually felt amateur. Considering Ridley Scott
made the iconic origin film, it's hard to understand how tragically he
has failed to grasp what makes the Alien film great. There is no slow
burn atmosphere here. No tension build up. No creepiness to the
xenomorph itself. It just fails to do anything that the predecessors
do. 

The film also makes the same mistakes as Prometheus did, by giving the
characters terrible motives or at best, strange decision making
capabilities. Nothing really makes sense. There are so many times where
you wonder to yourself, 'if this is suppose to be such an important
mission, why are they making such ridiculous choices?'

My next big gripe is with the visual effects. They are awful. Again, a
huge step down from Prometheus (which at least had that going for it).
The action scenes with the xenomorph were spastic and often hard to
follow.

Characters were plain, story was beyond boring, plot was ill thought
out, and the only likable character who makes sense is the villain!

It just failed overall to make a decent movie, and I am tired about
giving movie justice just because 'at least the effects were good' or
'at least the sound was great'. If the film can't stand up with its own
story, then it is a bad film. And as sorry as I am to say, this is a
bad film. 

Neill Blompkamp should be handed the reins, as at least he has vision
which could benefit the franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching Prometheus I was looking forward to Alien Covenant, big
mistake. When you can guess the ending of a film early on, are aware of
the SLOW passage of time when watching it and don't give a flying f*#k
about the characters and you suddenly realise you are actually BORED
you know you have a dud. 

Yeah, big budget, impressive scenery but no new ideas here folks. It's
like the writers didn't care anymore. "Hey, we'll make money out of
this no matter what let's just chuck a bunch of derivative s@#t in the
script, no one will notice". One word...PREDICTABLE.
<|_=00=_|>
The Alien franchise is now a caricature of its former self. Forumulaic
and predictable, in the Alien: Covenant, the accountants have taken
control of the story. So many scenes were unnecessary with a
disconnected mixture of styles, it seems as if the story was pieced
together by a committee with each member allocated their portion. Just
like in the movie 'Life', expect the crew on spacecraft to be totally,
unapologetically, inept in every sci -fi movie these days. I don't
understand how this is meant to be entertaining. But more disappointing
is the predictable ending, and the lame 'reveal'. Ripley's intuition
was on the mark, but in a universe of possibilities, is this best that
writers can imagine? There is a great deal of pretentiousness here,
allusions to cultural supremacy, and we have seen this all before. This
isn't sci-fi. This is a Marvel comic.
<|_=00=_|>
How in God's name did Scott make a worse movie than "Alien 3"? And then
Rotten Tomatoes reviewers gives it a Fresh rating to boot. Any
skepticism I've had for that rating site being an accurate barometer
has imploded.

This movie is a masterful mess. The worse thing Scott has ever done. I
won't step too much into the plot, as others have already given the
best parts of comical nonsense away. Only to say this, the movie begins
with a captain of the ship, who...is a free rock climber...who takes a
selfie video with one hand on the rock...nearly falling. This is the
man they initially send to guide a ship with "terraformers" to set up a
society. Then the second in charge...he answers a random beacon and
decides it is a better course of action to follow up on that rather
than stay the course. Dumb beyond belief.

I am through with Scott. I've been a fan for decades, but the slide is
real. Like painfully real. He is treading not only over similar
material, he is gutting it and leaving the fans to rot in the sun. This
is the worse of the series and everyone involved should be ashamed. A
true crime of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge Alien fan and was massively impressed by Prometheus, and
like all avid Alien fans I was excited to see Convenant - but what an
utter disappointment.

I thought the beginning was spectacular, except for the fact an obvious
and critical error was made to explore an unknown planet. Then the
face-palm moments increased at an alarming pace. 

The scene where the first Alien was born, and the events leading up to
it, was simply painful to watch. e.g. why would a specially trained
scientist hug a clearly infected soldier while he's having a seizure
and bleeding all over the place? simple - poor writing. 

I have to say the moment when the 2 Aliens attacked from the bushes was
intense and highly suspenseful, but that was the only relief before it
was obvious I'd wasted my money.

The fact that David was scarier than the Aliens, that one idiotic
decision was made after the other, and that many questions after
Prometheus were left unanswered - make Alien Covenant a monumental
failure. What a crying shame.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a result from corporate decision making based on
marketing data. You take everything that has been known to work in this
franchise and you mash it in a single installment. Make sure you have
an opening for a sequel in there for cash flow continuity!

Where's creativity? where's the story? where is the plot? It's a
typical Hollywood by the numbers movie production that we see all the
time these days. Your DC movies, your marvel movies etc. etc. It's all
by the numbers. Hence a by the numbers score of a 6. It's so very
average without a standout anywhere.
<|_=00=_|>
No suspense. No Horror. A permanent stain on the franchise that makes
you feel dirty after having watched it.

I had pretty much no expectations going into this film. I had avoided
much of the marketing material beforehand and knew very little about it
other than it being a sequel to Prometheus, which I actually thought
was a half decent film and a worthy prequel to Alien.

I'm not sure what went wrong with this film, but it is no exaggeration
to say it is one of the worst films I've had the misfortune of sitting
through. There is not one redeeming scene. The story is disjointed and
quite frankly a complete mess. The editing is horrendous, the score
completely forgettable and the cinematography is weirdly terrible.

Even Michael Fassbender cannot save this awful dirge. The CGI xneomorph
will haunt my dreams for quite some time. Not because it's an imposing
and scary alien in this film, but because the CGI is some of the worst
you'll see from a movie this year.

Alien and Alien 2 were as close to cinematic perfection as you're going
to get. Please avoid this dreadful film.
<|_=00=_|>
Dear Ridley Scott, You've ruined my life, you've ruined the lives of
others, you've ruined your own life. I genuinely think you have a
mental disorder. It's the only explanation. I have no words. I tried to
write a fair, logical and critical review, but the 10,000 character
limit wasn't enough to cover the sheer volume and perplexity and
magnitude of brain hurting plot holes, editing, directing, story,
acting and absurdity of the nonsensical destruction of the very thing
you created. If I had the rest of your life to sit and explain the
utter repugnance and absurdity of every choice you have made, it would
still not be enough. Everything, is wrong. Even your own wrongs are
wrong about the wrongs you've already wronged. I'm speechless. I'm just
going to breath. Breath and try to remain calm as I remove every piece
of Alien: Covenant and Prometheus from my mind. I feel dirty and
infected, repulsed by this miasma of psycho vomit you have inflicted
upon me.

My brain feels like the magical, inexplicable, story excusing black
ooze... that's sometimes dust... and sometimes from insects... and
sometimes is used as a plot device to explain absolutely nothing, and
destroy people in vastly conflicting and apparently never ending ways,
including itself. Perhaps from the ashes of my DNA, new life will be
made. But apparently, not all the time. So I don't even have hope.
Clearly, nothing makes sense anymore.

Yours sincerely
