
Trite and unenlightened. A in parts word for word transcript of the
bible mortality tale. The world is more complex than this. It is not
even a proper prodigal son story. He goes off loses some money and
hangs around with some actresses. He does nothing wrong, unless you
think losing money is a sin.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. There are a lot of movies that take off on the Prodigal Son theme
which, no offense, is not one my favorite parables, at least not the
way that it is usually presented. At least the older brother is
prominent; many ministers leave him out.

My problem with the Prodigal Son has always been this dismissal of the
older son as simply selfish. I have always felt that his issues were
valid and that the father should acknowledge that and actually tell him
he is proud of him instead of putting the burden on the son to be
forgiving. True, the two boys were different, and everybody seemed to
like the younger one even though he was a a complete malingerer. One
wonders what the oldest boy's childhood was like? Was the mother alive?
Did he have to help raise his brother too, thus shutting out his own
childhood even more?

Additionally, and this is not a spoiler since the story is from the
Bible, it seems the younger son was only sad he lost everything. In
other words, did he have any responsibility to apologize to his older
brother? Did the father encourage him to?

The older son gave his inheritance back to the business while the
younger one did not even care when he knew his family was in trouble.
As in the Bible, the father says to the older son that he will get
everything the father has - except what? The younger son seems to me to
be the type who after the father's death would split off from his
brother and run a competing business since the older would inherit the
whole business.

My point is, even in the Bible I think misinterpretation has occurred.
My belief is that God wants us to love ALL of our children and to tell
them ALL they have value. Throw a party for the oldest son too!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I give the makers credit for unapologetically retelling a predictable
story, but not preaching in the process. It could be for someone of any
religion. Jesus is never even mentioned. The people who give him advice
do it modestly.

However, just for the record, there is nothing wrong with living in a
big city, being an investor, or enjoying material possessions. But it
does matter what products and projects you support. In this case he
financed a video game that may deaden the senses of our youth, and a
movie that proclaims the world a dark place without a solution.

He did earn his inheritance to a degree, since he had been working on
the farm for many years and lent his savvy to the operation. Manual
labor is not for everyone. This movie tried to portray it as superior
to business deals, but both are important.

The lack of identification of the setting made sense, since they wanted
the story to stand for itself, and since the small budget could not
take it to L.A. If you read about the film, you see that it was
Raleigh, N.C. and the sweet coffee girl is from the area in real life.
It wasn't meant to be a story about L.A. or any particular city, but
rather the lifestyle of any generic town.

Repentance is universally possible and not unique to Christianity. We
never hear that he accepts Jesus upon his return. A Jew or Unitarian
can repent too.

The three leads were excellent. The main character had charisma and
gravitas, the party girl played worn out but savvy well, and the
Barista girl showed real girl-next-door emotion.

Nice picture. It's not exciting, but you may enjoy the setting and the
basic message as portrayed by attractive leads and simple dialog.
<|_=00=_|>
It may not be as much of an action packed! with explosions!! and
superheros!!! movie as we have grown accustom to recently, but it is
defiantly worth the watch. It still grows with suspense while teaching
important life lessons that everyone should be able to relate to in one
way or another. 

There should be more movies and stories like this one that can
entertain you while still having substance that an adult or young adult
can follow. It tells a story and keeps attention without breasts, sex
or special effects. 

I would recommend this movie for everyone to see!
