
In this spectacular action-adventure inspired by the classic mythology
of Egypt, the survival of mankind hangs in the balance as an unexpected
mortal hero Bek (Brenton Thwaites) undertakes a thrilling journey to
save the world and rescue his true love. In order to succeed, he must
enlist the help of the powerful god Horus (Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau) in
an unlikely alliance against Set (Gerard Butler), the merciless god of
darkness, who has usurped Egypt's throne, plunging the once peaceful
and prosperous empire into chaos and conflict. As their breathtaking
battle against Set and his henchmen takes them into the afterlife and
across the heavens, both god and mortal must pass tests of courage and
sacrifice if they hope to prevail in the epic final confrontation.
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing some of the reviews online, I wonder if people just watch a
movie while relaxing anymore. I thought this movie had great effects, a
pretty good story line, and very likable characters. I even liked the
bad guys. I see many people commented that the cast was too 'white'. Do
they bitch about Star Wars people being too 'human'? Come on people,
this is fantasy. It is OK to have 13 foot tall 'gods' walking around as
long as they are ethnically correct??? Do you think Egypt really looked
like that in those days? This is a fairy tale. Not real life. Just like
the tales of the bible. Sit down and enjoy a movie once in a while.
Don't try to nit-pick through the whole movie! And for Christ's sake,
RELAX once in a while!
<|_=00=_|>
Gods of Egypt is a 2016 fantasy film featuring ancient Egyptian
deities. The United States-Australia production is directed by Alex
Proyas and stars Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau, Brenton Thwaites, Chadwick
Boseman, Elodie Yung, Courtney Eaton, Rufus Sewell, with Gerard Butler
and Geoffrey Rush. Butler plays the god of darkness Set who takes over
the Egyptian empire, and Thwaites plays the mortal hero Bek who
partners with the god Horus, played by Coaster-Waldau, to save the
world and rescue his love.

Filming took place in Australia under the American studio Summit
Entertainment. While the film's production budget was $140 million, the
parent company Lionsgate's financial exposure was less than $10 million
due to tax incentives and pre-sales. The Australian government provided
a tax credit for 46% of the film's budget. When Lionsgate began
promoting the film in November 2015, it received backlash for its
predominantly white cast playing Egyptian characters. In response,
Lionsgate and director Alex Proyas apologized for the lack of casting
diversity.

Lionsgate released Gods of Egypt in theaters globally starting on
February 25, 2016 in 2D, RealD 3D, and IMAX 3D. It released the film in
the United States, Canada, and 68 other markets on February 26, 2016
and will release it in the United Kingdom on April 8, 2016.

The survival of mankind hangs in the balance when Set (Gerard Butler),
the merciless god of darkness, usurps Egypt's throne and plunges the
prosperous empire into chaos and conflict. Hoping to save the world and
rescue his true love, a defiant mortal named Bek (Brenton Thwaites)
forms an unlikely alliance with the powerful god Horus (Nikolaj
Coaster-Waldau). Their battle against Set and his henchmen takes them
into the afterlife and across the heavens for an epic confrontation.
<|_=00=_|>
Do not trust "movie professionals" who know nothing about the Kemet -
the original ancient Egyptian religion. Yes, this is an action movie.
Yes, it diverges a lot from canonical ancient Egyptian religion. Yes,
it is "too white" for ancient Egypt. Yes, there is a mixture of
Hellenic interpretation which kinda does not fit in. Building an "Super
Seth"? A pure nonsense.

But you know what? It does not matter as it captures the spirit of
Kemet pretty well. Seth versus Horus? Oh yes. Flat Earth with day side
and night side and never ending fight of Ra with Apopis? Yes. Debates
between the humans and gods leading to sort of understanding and sort
of tolerance? Yes. Nepthys, the wife of Seth, "excellent
goddess",protective goddess, feeling sadness for people dying? Yes.
Multiple Thowt servants, mapping the knowledge? Yes! (Please do
complain, black racist people here: Black Thowt is displayed
respectfully here!) Hathor, "cursed by love"? Yes! Isis, the super
model of double betraying women that will betray her son to betray his
enemy to allow her son win? The nasty manipulating goddess that is so
sensitive to people in love? Oh yes! Anubis, the inert god that feels
nothing towards gods of men yet fights for the order of the underworld?
Yes! Lots of action in between Egyptian gods? Oh hell yes! Actually I
do appreciate the effort to capture the feeling of Kemet. Yes, this is
not the Kemet. But considering all the alternatives I have ever seen,
this is the very best. Actually, the Christian overtones of God
understanding the nature of suffering the mortals are not damaging,
they are helping! Dear "professional" reviewers! Any single of you who
reviewed this movie less than 40% - please ask me for a diploma that
certifies you have sh*t for brains, you know sh*t of history, culture
and you should focus on movies like The Independence Day. In such
movies your cultural ignorance has no distortive value.

For all others: This is a fairy tale. An American fairy tale. But the
American fairy tale that has *the feel* for the dynamic of ancient
Egyptian religion. It is an excellent movie, it is fun, full of action
and actually does not insult ancient Egyptian religion.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a actually a pretty epic movie. Probably more like an 8 or 9
out of 10, but i have to level out some of the reviews that really
dogged this movie. You have to go into this knowing it is a fantasy
movie. And it's pretty darn good. Great story, and satisfying ending.
Do yourself a favor and don't pay attention to the overall score, just
go and see it.

There were some unexpected twist and turns. The Director definitely
didn't cut any corners. There was some pretty good CGI, as well as some
OK CGI. Overall though it was good. Hopefully there will be a sequel.

Costumes and acting were good, I know people complained about
whitewashing, but really who cares. I know i don't make enough money to
care.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, yes, the actors playing Gods of Egypt are white! Guess what,
they're not speaking Coptic either! Gasp! (yes, I had to google what
the closest live language to ancient Egyptian was >_<).

I do believe it is understood that this story is an adaptation of
ancient Egyptian beliefs and characters (gods and goddesses, afterlife,
etc). So yes, they pick and choose what parts they want in a (very)
westernized tale... 

And I did think that they did a good job. For the ancient Egyptians,
the gods did walk amongst the living. The king was supposed to be the
living embodiment of the god Horus. So the storyline is not really that
far-fetched. 

As for the acting, most of the cast is pretty good. Horus was a slight
let down. It's as if they wanted Aaron Eckhart, but had to make do with
this guy. (Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart are in London Has Fallen).
And the girl playing Zaya. I guess that was her character? to be
"sweet" and steadfast in loyalty, both to her husband and to her God.
Still, every time she came on screen, I thought the ancient Egyptians
had great push-up technology. Seth and Hathor were great (Gerard Butler
and Elodie Yung). Geoffrey Rush does justice to his role (as always).
Brenton Thwaite (the mortal/the thief) wasn't so bad either.

It's a sweet story overall. And entertaining! Lovely CGI on top of it.
I enjoyed it :). I wouldn't recommend it to scholars of ancient Egypt.
But even they would appreciate the nod to mythological characters in
this fiction piece :D.

Disclaimer: I left pretty much the exact same review on rottentomatoes.
I don't normally leave reviews, but this movie is getting a bad rep,
and unfairly! It happens to be one of the better movies out there right
now.
<|_=00=_|>
One of those (perhaps too frequent) oddball Hollywood epics where, the
first time you see it, you go "what were they thinking?" But it
deserves a second glance. This film is in the grand tradition of the
famous 1940s fantasy films like THIEF OF BAGDAD 1940 (recommended!).

These films are neither as logical as a STAR TREK saga nor as linear as
an Indiana Jones adventure. By nature, they tend to jump around, they
tend to be a bit wacky, and they often encourage outlandish
performances from their stars.

Which is what we have here. The #1 A-List name star, Gerard Butler has
arguably never been more unrestrained in his career. He gives the
impression that, after he takes over the world of the living and the
world of the dead, his next target is Hollywood itself.

In fact, the lesser known stars give the better textured performances
and connect with the audience.

Give it a chance -- as a love story that riffs off some extremely
misunderstood Egyptian myths and succeeds in spite of itself, it works
a treat.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, before I begin my philosophical review, which may bore you to
tears if you are disinclined to abstract bloviating, this movie works
as pure spectacle. The CGI is well done and the parallel intertwined
stories of Bek, the lowly thief, seeking his dead beloved's return from
the afterlife and Horus's battle against Set work well as a fast moving
action movie. For me, the attraction was such a rare thing to be found
here in pagan land. The learning to trust the gods, there is a parallel
between transcending selfish quests for vengeance as Horus learns to
see his Kingdom and its people. The zenith of the morality is reached
when the victorious Horus announces that deeds not wealth lead to the
reward in the afterlife. He rescinds Set's demand for treasure to buy
yourself immortality, this is not an anomaly. The movie follows the
existential development of both lead protagonists: Horus and Bek. Both
begin the movie oblivious to their responsibilities, even Osiris looks
a bit dubious in presenting his son with the crown. As Bek learns to
trust Horus, and Horus learns to care for these smaller, relatively
insignificant creatures, the characters deepen and grow as the movie
plays. The restoration of the moral order with rectitude set above
profit evinces the reflective allegorical disenchantment of Americans'
with their oligarchs and their dwindling spending power will open up to
you.

The movie is an extremely fast paced action movie that will never bore
you. Butler's Set has no problem cheating constantly to obtain and
maintain power. It is a rare villain role for Butler, I thought he
rendered it well. The parallel development of the two main characters
learning to work together against Set is the center of the movie. It
comes with a rather miraculous happy ending that I won't spoil for you.
The effects are uniformly well done but there are many bad movies this
is true of also. Why I liked the movie, is Bek's love that simply knows
no boundaries for returning to his lost Zaya. The story of the wounded
Horus who learns his strength comes from inside, not from his eyes,
parallel's the human Bek's story. This weaving together of the two,
with good banter between them, is the surprise of the movie. The
narrative core of the movie is these two stories of the leads: Horus
and Bek. I liked the movie as pure spectacle yet it is not vapid and
brainless. There is a moral depth to it that gives it greater meaning
than most current action movies. Movies are always reflections of their
zeitgeist, as a philosopher I found it reassuring: this rejection of
wealth as a sign of ontological value; believe me, this is not a
commonality in modern American cinema. 

One can but hope it is a harbinger of a coming rejection of the Global
Oligarch's god: Money. Bek's love that is an unstoppable force wins
even the admiration of the gods around him. True, his proclivity for
survival irritates the arrogant god of knowledge who speaks the above
funniest line in the entire movie. Horus is best viewed in contrast
from the lazy sybarite we meet at the beginning and the one, at the
very end, who departs imitating Bek in returning to the Underworld to
find his lost love. This is the hidden treasure, my friends: love,
duty, honor and goodness really aren't punchlines but they are the
beauty of life. As I look about me, how much happier my fellow denizens
would be if they shed this decadent need to crap upon all that is
beautiful in this life. Yes, action fans, the movie won't let you down,
I wasn't bored for one minute. My elder brother sat upon the edge of
his seat most of the movie. Yes, fly through the Fires Of Hell to find
that Love you lost. A Good Movie. Q.E.D. 

"We Travel The World Over To Find Beauty, Unless We Carry It With Us We
Find It Not." Ralph Waldo Emerson
<|_=00=_|>
This was a movie I was really looking forward to as i love Egyptian
mythology, the effects are awesome, acting is good, Nikolaj
Costar-Waldau and Gerard Butler make exciting opponents, good fighting
scenes, fair amount of appearance by many different Egyptian gods.
Overall greatly entertaining for anyone who is interested in lore,
myths, legends and fantasy movies. Just ignore the negative reviews,
sit back and enjoy the show :) Indeed, it may even be one of the best
movies which has a plot in ancient Egypt in the last few years.
Geoffrey Rush as Ra is the cherry on top. Runtime is over two hours
which passes away in a jinx since the action is non stop and there are
always new extraordinary god characters on screen with different skill
sets, good and evil characters with lots of variety. Have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is pretty much what you get when Alexander Proyas saw Clash
of the Titans (2010) and Wrath of the Titans (2012), and says to
himself "What the hell is this? This isn't Harryhausen!" ... and then
he goes off an makes a pitch-perfect film that pays homage to the
classics - Clash of the Titans, Jason and The Argonauts, etcetera.

It's awesomely done, with fight scenes reminiscent of Wuxia films from
the 1980s, a color palette that's sublime, and a sense of humor that
shines through.

Ignore the critics. Just enjoy a damn fine movie that hits all the
right spots to enjoy with a bucket of popcorn.

Bonus: It has zero product placement - which makes up for I, Robot.
