
I saw this film at the San Francisco International Film Festival. I
don't usually see two films in one day and was tired after already
seeing another film, but Belle woke me up. I really enjoyed it. 

This film would have been OK as a total fiction but given that it was
based on a true story, I found it fascinating. Set in England in the
late 1700's, it shows the impact of the slave trade on society. The
patriarch of the family is a justice of the High Court of England and
takes on an important case regarding a slave trading ship while
confronting the reality of limitations faced by his mulatto niece. It
shows that when someone becomes part of your family, and you love that
person, it changes your perspective on cultural norms. This film has
prompted me to look into the history of the actual legal case involved. 

The film also showed the similarities between his white and mulatto
nieces: as women both had a price on their heads and suffered due to
their "place" in that society beneath men... This film showed that
while much has changed, many attitudes have not changed in 300 years...
The two brothers who court the nieces could have come from any current
film if they just updated their styles of clothes, hair, and accents.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw an advance screening of BELLE--and I absolutely loved it.
The dialog, directing, performances, costumes, locations, and
cinematography were all fabulous. 

It's based on the mesmerizing and romantic true story of the beautiful,
intelligent, mixed race daughter of an admiral, who was raised in
Georgian England by her aristocratic great-uncle and his wife. The
script hits all the right notes as Belle struggles to find her place in
a society that doesn't quite accept her, and with the help of an
idealistic young vicar's son (Sam Reid-- fantastic), influences an
important anti-slavery case. 

Congratulations to director Amma Asante and writer Misan Sagay for
bringing this story vividly to life on the screen. Gugu Mbatha-Raw was
luminous as Dido Belle, and I think Tom Wilkinson gave the best role of
his career. Both are Oscar-worthy performances. The film is highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
- A love story and the value of being honest to yourself is what Belle
is about. This movie transports you to the 1700s England. Based on the
true story of Dido Elizabeth Belle "Belle", this tale is about a young
mulato girl named Belle that is brought into her father's house and
caretaker of her great-uncle Lord Mansfield a honorable Chief Judge and
wife. Belle has all the rights and privileges of upper society but her
face reflects her slave mother and the prevailing social prejudice
keeps her from being totally accepted into the formal social circles.
At the same time, she befriends her cousin, who she considers a sister
and is also given residence to this estate after her mother dies and
her father abandons her. This story is beautifully layered with the
issues of equality and slavery but is not preachy. It merely shows how
the matters of the heart can't be prevented by the color of your skin.
This coming of age story is masterfully told. I saw this film as part
of the Atlanta Film Festival.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is most likely not playing at a theater near you, but it is
so worth traveling to see. The acting was superb! I don't remember a
movie in recent times that I enjoyed so much. The story touched my
heart as a person of mixed African descent. It showed how then and now
too much emphasis is placed on skin color. It showcased people (both
white and black) that were willing to stand up for what is right. I
don't find this kind of movie to be controversial as it will do so much
to enlighten people to historical facts that cannot be denied.

The costumes were so beautiful and some were on display at the Landmark
Theater in Los Angeles. The audience clapped and cheered at the end of
the movie and were raving about the movie as they left the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
In years hence, audiences will be able to point to this film, as the
moment the world knew Gugu Mbatha-Raw was going to be big. Belle is
Amma Asante's feature-length directorial debut, and her work here is
astonishingly confident. Tackling a period piece may seem daunting to
most, but in Asante's case, she has the benefit of a top-notch cast,
and a truly fascinating story. Loosely based on the story of Dido
Elizabeth Belle, Dido was the daughter of an enslaved African woman and
an English admiral.

As the film begins, although she is born illegitimate, Dido's father
(Matthew Goode, Stoker) gives her over into the care of his
great-uncle, William Murray, the first Earl of Mansfield (Tom
Wilkinson), who acts as the Lord Chief Justice of the British courts.
As she grows into a young woman, Dido's life at the palatial estate of
Kenwood is full of mixed blessings. While her uncle and aunt (Emily
Watson, Breaking the Waves) treat her as if she were their own혰they
raise her alongside their other niece, Elizabeth Murray (Sarah Gadon, A
Dangerous Method)혰social conventions of eighteenth century society are
immovable; no matter how much they love her, Dido feels the sting of
being forced to eat with the servants, when company comes calling.

The greatness of the film comes in its intricate plotting, and in the
parallels drawn between gender and race. Author Jane Austen dealt with
the position of women in English society through the use of dry
humor혰though the rage at a young woman being forced into marriage in
order to secure a safe future was always very much present. In Belle
however, there is no satire to soften the blow. As Elizabeth comes out,
venturing to London in search of a husband, she points out to Belle the
inherent unfairness of a system that allows women to be treated as male
property. Dido doesn't necessarily have the problem of a search for a
husband, as the inheritance of her father's fortune ensures that she is
financially secure; but for a radiant young woman in the prime of her
life, her uncle's insistence on keeping her out of sight understandably
rankles her.

Matters are complicated by the arrival of John Davinier (Sam Reid), the
son of a local clergyman. Ambitious and wide-eyed, John wants to try to
rise in station, training with Lord Mansfied to become a lawyer. His
outspoken, radically abolitionist views on a notorious legal case Lord
Mansfield is trying annoy the Lord considerably; but he rouses all the
passionate feeling in Dido that she has been forced for so long to
suppress.

As Lord Mansfield, Wilkinson (Batman Begins, Michael Clayton) plays the
exasperated father figure with the correct touches of humor and warmth.
As a judge, he projects the inner conflicts of a man with the weight of
the entire economic system on his shoulders; you can see him try to
deflect from the strong-arming of local politicians, who want to ensure
that the presence of the "mulatto" in his house will not affect his
ruling on the case. As Elizabeth, Gadon takes what could have been a
very stereotypical role of the flighty, romantic English girl, and
brings a deep sense of hurt to it. Having been left with her uncle
after her new stepmother successfully wrote her out of her father's
will, Elizabeth's cheery exterior hides an emotionally hurt young girl.

And finally, there is Mbatha-Raw. As Dido, the engine that drives the
film, you may deeply feel her two-fold frustration as a woman, and as a
person of color. You will be carried away by her passion혰her belief
that things should not remain the same. On a more general level, the
camera absolutely adores her. She moves and projects with a vitality
and ease that forces one to stop at several points. Her
characterization and her performance are so accomplished, that her
independent-minded heroine could stand toe-to-toe with the multiple
incarnations of Jane Austen's Elizabeth Bennett. If Belle is any
indication, and if there is any fairness in this world, there should be
more great things to come from her.

-Nick Kostopoulos - See more at: http://www.mediumraretv.org
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a film lover who's encouraged to see a story that reveals a piece
of the history so often ignored. "Belle" is based on a true story.
Since the history of slavery is not taught, films that deal with it -
when done well - can be not only entertaining but also instructive. We
need these stories! "Belle" is surprising, a piece in the grand puzzle
of the history of the slave trade and its impact on the lives of all
manner of people. Tom Wilkinson is as always wonderful... The other
actors are all just fine. Gugu is lovely as Dido. The hypocrisy of the
British upper class is on full display. The Zong Slave ship case is
threaded through this film and opens another door on the horrors of the
slave trade. That case alone deserves its own film but it would
probably be too horrible to watch! I was reminded of all the pained
experiences black children endured as they attempted to integrate
public schools. The insults and denigration, the racist assumptions
hurled at these students were nightmarish. Being the only black person
in a sea of whites to this day can be challenging. "Belle" allows us to
see and to imagine what that was like in England in the late 1700's.
"Belle" was a blood relative and still she could not sit at the dinner
table if guests were dining. There's much to learn here, much to think
about.
<|_=00=_|>
...that Peter Saunders must have been watching a different movie. I
don't agree with him at all. I enjoyed this movie to the fullest.
Though the ending was a bit predictable, the acting, sets (incredible),
and story were wonderful. The costume designer should win an award...As
well as the set designer. Don't let his review keep you from seeing
this film. Watch it, enjoy it, and see for yourself if you like it.
Seven bucks well spent. If you like period pieces, go see it. The sets
alone are worth the trip. And the lead actress was both beautiful and
played her role very well. Maybe there weren't enough explosions or CGI
to make Peter happy...
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited when I found a little indie theater 40 minutes away
was airing Belle. I already knew I wanted to see this film by virtue of
it being a historical drama/romance that put a biracial woman front and
center. I love period films, but as a genre they are sorely lacking
representation of POC characters. I walked out of the theater stunned
at this passionate story of love, justice, acceptance, and society.
It's slow-burning, to be sure. I was getting worried the first half
hour. It seemed like this would be a black and white (no pun intended)
morality play of good, open-hearted people pitted against evil racists.
It's true that some characters fall plainly on one side or another, but
as the movie goes on, the roles start to become blurred. It becomes a
story of people who are caught between the clear-cut lines society has
placed. If you can find a theater playing Belle, go see it as soon as
possible. Films like this deserve all the attention they can get.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to see this movie because it is a period piece. I did not know
that it is based on a true story . I loved the settings, the costumes,
the writing and the acting. A well written story of the start of the
road to abolishing slavery in England. The Story of DIdo - the caring
aunt and uncle who took her under their roof, the other niece who they
are raising also and how she develops into a beautiful and very smart
lady. I'm sure the reactions by the people at that time were presented
accurately. Dido was not allowed to eat with company but could with
just the family. The courting of the women when they were of that age
was interesting to watch and the conniving by the mother of the two -oh
so different men in the name of wanting more money to come from the
women. I especially like the intelligence of Dido and how it came out
in the age of when women were not to be involved in politics or
anything other than the home. A beautifully photographed film.
<|_=00=_|>
Initially I was excited to see this movie because of Matthew Goode,
even though I realized that he only plays a minor role in this film.
After seeing the trailer however, the film flew towards the top of my
"to watch" list. It still managed to exceed my expectations -
interesting, well paced storyline, incredible cast (Tom Wilkinson was
absolutely brilliant), intricate and beautiful costumes - definitely a
movie that will be enjoyed even by those who are not big fans of period
pieces.

The fact that the movie was based on a true story just made it even
more impactful. Dido Elizabeth Belle is left in England by her loving
Admiral father, to be raised by her aristocratic aunt and uncle - at a
time in history when wealth and social standing could not overshadow
the fact that she was a mixed race, illegitimate child. Belle's story
of trying to figure out her place in the world and in her family
unravels beautifully alongside a closer and deeper look at the racism
and sexism plaguing the British society at the time. Add a dash of
romance and the result is a beautiful film definitely worth watching.
