
This was an amazing movie, to a large extent because of its lead
actors. I expected Juliette Binoche and Kristen Stewart to make a great
team, and they did; there was never a moment when I thought one of them
was out-acting the other, or drawing attention from the other. They
worked in perfect tandem as far as I could see. 

The first thing that needs to be mentioned is the technique of telling
the story in "layers." Many, if not all, scenes are on multiple levels,
filled with subtext, and it all mixes effortlessly with the central
story. 

Binoche plays famous and respected actress Maria Enders, while Kristen
plays her devoted personal assistant, Valentine. Enders is preparing to
play an important role: the character of Helena, an older woman in a
remake of the play in which she once starred brilliantly as the more
powerful younger character, Sigrid. Valentine is helping her rehearse,
and they both travel to the picturesque mountain town of Sils Maria to
work on the play. That's the main "layer" and it makes a perfectly good
story on its own. But in this movie, any piece of dialogue can, at the
same time, refer to the characters in Enders' play; to Enders and
Valentine themselves; to Binoche and Stewart; or to other actors,
movies, directors, or events which are not directly mentioned in the
film. Yes, even the real life actors are referenced; Olivier Assayas
confirmed in an interview that in this movie, the identity of the
actual actors is part of the story. It sounds as if it should be weird
and confusing, but it's not; it's done very smoothly, with the main
story easy to follow even while taking in the other layers of reference
as if they were background music. 

The basic story, which is beautifully told, is about a woman struggling
to deal with ageing in a profession that doesn't always respect older
women, that may consider them irrelevant. Maria Enders is also trying
to be true to her art while making the necessary concessions to fame,
the media, the fans, fellow actors, and critics, concessions she
resents to some extent. It would be a fine story all by itself. But the
added layers provide a sort of ongoing commentary on the story, that
makes it much more interesting, and a little strange. Seeing obvious
parallels with the lead actors' real lives is odd, but like the
parallels between Maria Enders and the character she is preparing to
play, it only adds depth to the story and gives us more insight into
what is happening.

Maria's struggle is made worse when she meets the young, brash,
gossip-ridden Hollywood actress, Joanne Ellis (Chloe Grace Moretz), who
is to take on the role of Sigrid. Joanne is smart, fearless, and
media-savvy. At their first meeting she flatters Maria and claims to be
an admirer, but may simply be feigning respect. Maria is easy to
sympathize with when she looks into Joanne's background and sees that
the rising star displacing her is a crude, grandstanding girl who
manipulates the system to her advantage, and who acts in ridiculous
sci-fi drivel. 

Gradually, the difficult relationship between the characters in Enders'
play becomes blurred and overlapped with Enders' relationship with
Valentine, each relationship providing commentary on the other. It is
interesting to watch Binoche simultaneously rehearsing a scene in which
her character, Helena, has a confrontation with Sigrid, and in subtext
confronting Valentine. It gradually becomes unclear whether she is
Helena addressing Sigrid, or Maria addressing Valentine, because it
becomes both at once. 

Maria's conflicts over becoming obsolete in the field where she's
excelled, and by extension possibly in her life, causes ongoing
friction with Valentine, who tries to help her and encourage her to
change her perspective. Finally, in a brief surreal moment, Maria, it
is implied, manages to take on Valentine's perspective and her
confidence. As Valentine tries to express at one point, Helena and
Sigrid are really the same character; by extension, so are Maria and
the young, pragmatic, fearless Valentine. Ultimately these opposites
are reconciled, the conflicting layers are brought together, and Maria
is able to accept her new reality and move on. It's not necessarily a
happy ending, in terms of Maria's diminishing professional range, but
it is a satisfying one.

This is an enjoyable, well written and well acted, serious and yet
consistently entertaining movie from beginning to end.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very glad that i attended the opening ceremony of the Beirut
International Film Festival with the presence of Juliette Binoche
screening this touching movie! We're talking here about a festival
movie so if you're not ready for a lot of talking scenes, well this is
not for you! The story itself is brought by Binoche to director Olivier
Assayas about an actress at the peak of her career who is asked again
to play a role in a play that made her famous years ago! Let's be
clear: this movie is all about stunning performances by a great Trio of
actresses Binoche, Stewart and Moretz! Everyone was so great performing
the characters. Binoche made it clear that this movie talk about her
career and how can it be disturbed or touched emotionally on every
level when she'll reach a certain age and when new generations of
actors will rise! A must see for cinema lovers and especially for
professional actors!
<|_=00=_|>
"In the play you all know, Maloya Snake, he gave me everything I need
to build a career on, my career."

Olivier Assayas and Juliette Binoche reunite after their previous
collaboration (Summer Hours) in this wonderful meta film that has some
slight similarities to Birdman. This could be the female version of
that movie although not as entertaining and without all the technical
achievements. It is also a little more subtle in its approach. The
story begins on a train as re-known actress, Maria Enders (Juliette
Binoche) is heading to Zurich with her personal assistant, Valentine
(Kristen Stewart) to receive an award on behalf of a dear friend,
Wilhelm Melchior, who is the reason why she is now a famous actress.
Twenty years ago, he offered her the role to play the lead character in
the stage and later on in the film adaptation of that play. On their
way to Zurich they receive the terrible news of his passing which
deeply saddens her. After the ceremony Valentine arranged a meeting
with Klaus (Lars Eidinger) who wants Maria to play the older character
in his adaptation of Wilhelm's novel. She continues to identify with
the strong younger character and doesn't feel its correct for her to
play the weaker role of Helen, but ultimately she agrees to do it. The
lead character will be played by the promising young actress Jo-Ann
Ellis (Chloe Grace Moretz) who has had her share of scandals with
paparazzi's recently. In order to prepare for the role, Maria and
Valentine travel to Wilhelm's former home in Sils Maria surrounded by
the gorgeous Alps. Here, Maria is forced to reflect on her career and
come to terms with the fact that she's an aging actress. 

Clouds of Sils Maria is another film that reminds us that life imitates
art because we are always finding ways to express ourselves and the
means to do so is through art. Maria is forced to come to terms with
her reality through the acceptance of this character she's not thrilled
about playing because she doesn't seem to understand her. There are
several scenes in which she is rehearsing the lines with Valentine that
kind of blur the line between fantasy and reality. There were moments
in which i didn't know if they were actually arguing or if they were
simply reading the lines of the play. Those scenes were memorable and
unique and I believe are at the center of this film. There are also
some great conversations between the two about art and blockbuster
Hollywood movies portraying the opposing two point of views. The film
is rich with strong female characters exploring art and life in a
rather authentic way. Clouds of Sils Maria may not be for everyone
because it is slow paced and some scenes can become tedious if you
aren't a patient viewer, but I found it a rewarding experience and a
solid exploration of the passage of time and coming to terms with it.
The classical music score (Pachelbel's Canon in D Major) also gives the
film a touch of class. The scenery is also beautiful and it makes each
conversation all the more profound.

Juliette Binoche has always been a wonderful actress so it comes as no
surprise that she deliver yet another solid and touching performance.
The real question everyone had was whether or not Kristen Stewart could
hold her own next to this talented actress. The two share a lot of
screen time together and at no point did I feel that Binoche was eating
up the screen. Stewart gives in my opinion the best performance of her
career (and I did really like her in Camp X-Ray and Still Alice) and
she truly shines here. She won the Cesar (France's version of the
Oscars) for best supporting screenplay and she proves that with the
right material she can deliver solid roles. Chloe Grace Moretz also
delivers a strong performance despite not having much screen time.
She's hilarious in the scenes where Maria looks up her name on the
internet and we get clips of the scandals she's been involved in. All
in all, this is a solid film exploring some interesting subjects with
solid performances and a beautiful landscape. 

http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a big fan of Magritte and Escher, of the writer Sebald, of
Pirandello and Philip Glass and maybe the film "Koyaanisqatsi", I
predict that you will love this film. If, on the other hand, you can't
see the point of any of these and believe only in Aristotle's six
elements of drama, there are many other excellent films you will like
much better. It's a matter of taste.

In this film, writer/director Assayas deliberately blurs the
distinctions between a number of levels. You start with people in the
business of theatre and film: Marie Enders (Binoche), an experienced
and celebrated actress, and Valentine (Stewart), her young, busy,
competent personal assistant, and the people in Marie's past, living
and dead. 

Then there is the level of the characters in the play "The Maloja
Snake" of twenty years ago, when Marie played the young and cruel
Sigrid who loved and crushed her middle-aged employer, Helena. There is
the level of the characters of the same play today, in which director
Klaus Diesterweg (Lars Eidinger) hopes to recruit Marie to play Helena,
possibly with a different take on the characters' motives and
psychology, and in which Jo-Ann Ellis (Moritz) is eventually cast as
Sigrid. 

And there is also the level of the real human world, including events
in the life of the real Kristen Stewart, which have striking parallels
in the life of the fictional Ellis; the same seems to be true of
Binoche and Enders, and I have read that "The Maloja Snake" is a
parallel world version of Fassbinder's "The Bitter Tears of Petra von
Kant". 

Spanning all these levels are the the real Switzerland and its real
mountains and clouds, including the real Maloja Snake, a cloud
phenomenon which was the subject of a black-and-white short film in the
1920's which is excerpted in Assayas' film and which can be seen on
YouTube. The Internet spans all these levels too, and all the
characters in the film are busy with texting and Skyping and Googling
and checking out and fixing their IMDb info. 

And then the work of playing characters, of determining and managing
emotions, of arguing about what really motivates real or fictional or
play-within-a-play fictional characters, either within the industry of
the creative arts or not, also bridges the levels. We are constantly
aware of the analogies and reflections among Valentine - Maria, Sigrid
- Helena, Jo-Ann - Maria, and so on. Readings of lines take place, in
which you sometimes wonder what level you are on, and we see a lot of
the details of the creative discussions which must go into the
production of plays or for that matter, not incidentally, movies such
as "Clouds of Sils Maria". If you get lazy and suspend your disbelief
and allow yourself to mentally presume that "Clouds" is a
comprehensible narrative of the real world, Assayas will bring you up
short without any ceremony.

So, does that kind of thing strike you as artistically intriguing or
intellectually exciting? If it does, see the movie. It will give you a
lot to think about and appreciate and puzzle about and discuss
afterward. (The Swiss tourist board will thank you also.) If it seems a
bit dry and abstract, well, you are fairly warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, people, European movies are just different from American films.
Particularly, French movies are different; they deal with the mysteries
of human existence -- growing old, looking at the future of one's
profession, grieving over loss of an old friend and mentor AND a
divorce at the same time. Europeans still talk; conversation is
important; debate is a delight. But to do that, one has to have ideas,
a vocabulary, a sense of history, some new concepts to test -- and a
feeling that human beings can still be heroic and worth spending time
with. All too little of this exists in the US these days. Worse,
American films have been in profit-only franchise mode for years, thus
poisoning the next generation by raising their adrenaline level. Paris
is currently the epicenter for world cinema and with reason. By driving
for money only, Hollywood has driven the public from the theaters.

NOTE: SPOILERS TO COME 1. Maria's not in crises; she has a full plate.
Overwhelmed, too much to do at once. Then her mentor dies, as she's
traveling to pick up an award for him. Meanwhile her ex-husband is
hassling her about money. 2. She trusts her assistant, Val, who seems
committed to her and respects her. Being young, Val thinks it would be
helpful to "bring the old girl up-to-date" with her insightful comments
on movies and acting. We don't have any evidence that Val knows
anything more about either than gossip and LA obsessions. But that
never stopped a youngster from arguing about stuff. Maria playfully
teases her back. 3. Maria would like to remain the same character she
played 20 years before, when she was 18. Wild horses couldn't drag me
back to 18, or 20, or 25, but it's an understandable point of view for
someone who's had to adjust to being in the public eye. She doesn't
really like Helena, didn't like the actress who played her, and doesn't
want to end the play being left, seen as undesirable, exploited and
abandoned. 4. While Maria says, "I'm not concerned about the lesbian
angle in the play; I've always been straight." Well, who asked her?
Clearly some sexual tension is going on here with all three women,
though there's nothing from Jo-Ann to Val (Jo-Ann is as cold a little
bitch as required). But Val seems to be increasingly attracted to Maria
and Maria seems to be healing/opening back up within the boundaries of
friendship. She also peeks at Val when she's asleep. 5. As the erotic
intensity increases, Val throws up by the side of the road. Seems like
the well-known old "homosexual panic" to me, wherein one realizes that
one could be in love with someone of the same sex. Whoa! Where's this
coming from? Me? Eventually she only has two choices, as she's already
suffering. She can ask Maria for more in the relationship (and does,
only to have Maria dismiss the "line" from the play and Val at the same
time), or she can leave. No one wants to be imprisoned in a hopeless,
heartbreaking situation where one is never going to be valued or
prioritized. 6. As a French woman, Maria isn't going to get all anxious
about the possibility of an affair with Val; after all, she's cut her
hair and is wearing more masculine clothes to "live in the part." She
also has played a young gay seducer before in the earlier play and
film. Surely she would consider what an affair with a woman would be
like. Val hasn't, I wager.

Binoche as always is a revelation; Stewart is a little too flighty,
constantly in motion, but I was impressed anyway. (Still, I wondered
what Lea Seydoux would have done with Val.) Moretz didn't too much for
me. I really loved this film and hope others will see it with an open
heart and mind..
<|_=00=_|>
it misses the point a bit. It's that kind of film that makes you think
that something great is about to come, but it fails completely at the
end. Last scene, at the theatre, is completely unnecessary. Suddenly
Maria and Jo-Ann changes their personalities to perform a rubbish and
disconnected scene, that does not fit the story at all. It is a must
see, though, because Kristen Stewart performs brilliantly, and Binocche
is not bad at all. Maybe is just that feeling of frustration at the
end, after you believe you chose the right film to watch, one of those
rare films to remember, and then the director just looses himself. A
pity.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a huge disappointment in every way except seeing the
clouds snake through the mountains in Switzerland. We went to see the
film because of Juliette Binoche, lead actress, who we have seen in
other films (most notably "Chocolat" and "English Patient") and found
her performances to be memorable. The film was promoted with the theme
of an aging actress dealing with her demons, but it never delivered on
that score. And with an 124-minute run time, they could have explored
her character more. We hear a little about.her impending divorce, her
failed relationships with men in her industry, disillusionment about
aging, and her drinking. All obvious demons, but none of them explored
enough to allow her to emote and make me care about her. Instead, the
story focuses exclusively on her conflict on performing as the "older
woman" in a play she did 20 years before when she was the "younger
woman". This theme is developed through her relationship with her
personal assistant, played by Kristen Stewart, who, as a much younger
woman, challenges her views in a dispassionate way. In that context,
the two drink, smoke, "eff" a lot, and generally look and act more like
men than women. But, amazingly, with all the obvious lesbian tension
going on between them, this is never explored, and the film just
fizzles out without acknowledging what it seemed to be about! I have
read that Binoche liked the idea of this film and asked to have it
produced, but unfortunately, they didn't take the time or have the
gifts to make it a good film. I have to especially "ding" the editing,
there were so many scenes where things just "jumped-cut" and were
jarring. And Binoche's over-the-top laugh in many scenes were like "why
are you laughing, huh?"
<|_=00=_|>
We witnessed the kinetic energy of the Oscar-winning Birdman about an
aging actor making a comeback on the Broadway stage. Now with the
expert and engaging Clouds of Sils Maria we witness a middle-aged
actress, Maria (Juliette Binoche), contend with both her 20-year return
to the same play but as the older character and the energy of a
personal assistant, Valentine (Kristen Stewart), that reminds Maria of
time's passage and the changes in her profession.

Writer/director Olivier Assayas delights us with stunning camera work
in an early sequence on the train;Hitchcock would love the camera and
editing if you remember Strangers on a Train. Assayas also features the
Alps with such loving cinematography you'll be booking a trip. Credit
Yorick Le Saux for the editing and Marion Monnier for cinematography.

The heart of an excellent drama such as this is its words, the best way
to convey the complex emotions each actress must display. Besides
Binoche's up-close glamour, Kristin Stewart's sassy, dark beauty is
there to remind us that youth rules.

The screenplay offers advice about the changing nature of dynamic
dialogue: "The text is like an object. It's gonna change perspective
based on where you're standing." (Valentine). In the case of Maria and
Valentine, the sometimes screwball-comedy-like repartee reveals layers
of perception and emotion heightened by the fact that we are witnessing
the deconstruction of the acting experience: Maria holds to classical
interpretation while Valentine's thesis is that spontaneity and
electricity are the key components.

The plot of Maria's accepting a stage role for a play she acted in 20
years ago as the young lead loosely parallels the scenario of this film
(young assistant provoking the older actress) until a climactic moment
on the mountain, a moment whose ambiguity will demand you complete the
scene for yourself. Regardless, you will know you have seen one of the
best films of the year depicting the rigorous working of the art of
acting given by two of the best actresses today in film (Stewart won a
Cesar for this role, Binoche won an Oscar for English Patient, and a
mature Chloe Grace Moretz is sure to be Oscar nominated soon!).
<|_=00=_|>
The enigmatic title refers to both a climatic phenomenon called the
"Maloja snake", which occurs in the Engadinean alpine pass in
Switzerland, and to a village at one end of a local lake. The village
is the home of an elderly playwright who much earlier wrote a work
called "The Maloja Snake" about the complicated relationship between a
young woman in her late teens (Sigrid) and her middle-aged female
employer (Helena). The film is all about the re staging of this play in
which actress Maria who originally took the younger role to great
acclaim has now been invited to portray the older woman in the new
interpretation.

It is unusual, but a pleasing change, for a film to have all its
leading roles taken by women. Superb French actress Juliette Binoche,
whom I have admired since her early English-language work ("Damage" and
"The English Patient"), is Maria, struggling to come to terms with her
different role in the play. American actress Kristen Stewart is
excellent in the secondary role as Maria's personal assistant Valentine
and so different from her "Twilight" movies. The third role is taken by
another young American, Chloë Grace Moretz, who is the actress taking
over as Sigrid in the play - again a very different persona from the
one we have seen before in the "Kick-Ass" movies.

This is a wordy work but the words matter. At times, we are not sure if
the interaction between the two main personages is between Helena and
Sigrid or between Maria and Valentine and even between Binoche and
Stewart. In truth, there are elements of all three which is how subtle
and nuanced is this German-French-Swiss co-production written and
directed by the French Olivier Assayas. Ultimately this is a film, like
near contemporary "Birdman", about acting but, however much the
American Academy may have feted "Birdman", I found "Clouds Of Sils
Maria" much more intelligible and engaging.
<|_=00=_|>
Ambiguity is the key world of this film. You are the major actor in the
sense that your interpretation makes the film. Each scene is so
ambiguous that you can always interpret it in various manners so in the
end _you_ are the director. When Maria and Val work on the text,
rehearse the play, the feelings are so mingled that you are the one who
decide if they are those of Helena- Sigrid or rather Maria-Val. Reality
is entangled. I loved the Alps hiking shots and overall the mysterious
Maloja snake. I would have rated it a 9 to the Writer-Director Olivier
Assayas but reduced it to a 8 because I was disappointed in Juliette
Binoche's performance. She is usually better than in this film, it is
as if she didn't feel like acting this character, a bit like what
happens in the film itself. At several occasions her laugh is
artificial and fake. She is obviously ill at ease in this character,
which proves what I wrote before about entangled reality between the
film itself and the play prepared in the film. I'm not sure I am very
clear but those who have seen and felt/perceived the movie as I, will
understand.
