
The last film I saw Brosnan in - Love Punch - was almost as bad as Mama
Mia. What was he thinking? Apart from Daniel Craig, I like him as the
best 007. So, having read some of the reviews on IMDb I had very low
expectations.

However, this is a good film if you like Brosnan as the secret agent. I
don't understand why some reviewers don't get the story. It's pretty
simple to follow even though the end is half expected. He is gritty
enough (just) with the couple of scenes of him drinking not quite
making the cut. The action scenes were quite good and Olga Kurylenko
added the eye candy.

So, I disagree with the haters. This is definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
(NO SPOILERS)

When I first heard about the "November Man" I was exited to hear that
Pierce Brosnan would be doing another spy/action film, since its been
12 years since his last Bond adventure. But after seeing the trailer
and hearing some reviews I was afraid this would turn out to be like
Stallone's "Bullet to the Head" and be a bit of a flop.

However, "The November Man" is not only a very exiting spy movie, but
also is an entertaining action movie as well. It has a perfect blend of
slow burn espionage and gritty fight sequences that earn the film its R
rating. It's plot is based off of Bill Granger's "There Are No Spies"
and for the most part flows steadily throughout the run-time. My only
major gripe is that one or two scenes could have been cut out entirely
and it would not have affected anything.

There are a decent amount of action sequences in "The November Man",
mainly gunfights, fist-fights, and one or two car chases. Instead of
having a few longer and more drawn out action scenes, the film has many
short burst type scenes, no longer than 3 or 4 minutes. The camera work
and cinematography is different, but steers clear of that frustrating
shaky cam that is seen in so many modern action movies. My one and only
problem with the action was the usage of CGI blood and flares, However,
everything else is done for real, it was great to see a film that does
not rely on computers and just does stuff practically.

I did not have any issues with the performances of the cast, Brosnan,
Kurylenko, and Bracy were all believable in their parts but did not
provide anything that blew me away.

So, "The November Man" is a good spy action/thriller movie, with a
decent story packed with twists and turns, along with enticing
characters, but what sold this movie for me was it's action sequences,
that were done (for the most part) practically. I would recommend
seeing it for anyone who was a fan of Brosnan's time as 007 or just
enjoys action films.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this flick and was still impressively entertained
by Mr. Brosnan, just like with 007. The story has multiple levels,
keeps you guessing and second-guessing people's ambitions and
allegiances. Acting is nice, not too shabby. Action is well paced and
promotes the idea of 'intelligent agents' with weaknesses (that they
actually figure how to avoid). As to the story itself - yes, it's a lot
of this and that, which we've seen a lot, but suspend your belief for a
second and you might just see how much heart was put into this movie -
and they really don't make them like this anymore. So, if you're a fan
of Pierce, loved his 007 acting and enjoy some political drama, this
will not disappoint you.
<|_=00=_|>
True, the plot is predictable to some degree and the movie is
definitely not Bourne or Casino Royale (2006). This doesn't mean that
is trash, though. There are lots o middle places between a master piece
and an totally awful movie.

One of the main problems is that in a couple of moments the information
is delivered in a sloppy way and this creates some momentary confusion
on the viewer. But it doesn't last long. There are also some scenes
that stretch too far the disbelief suspension that any movie of that
kind invariably asks for. But if you can look past those flaws, you
will be entertained by a movie that delivers. Brosnan does his thing,
there are good action scenes, got some decent plot twists, acting is
average...

Don't get put off by the haters. All in all, a decent spy flick. Just
keep your expectations at a mainstream level and you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
'THE November MAN': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Spy thriller starring Pierce Brosnan as an ex-CIA agent who must take
on an old pupil, when his former employers kill the woman he loves and
target him for assassination. The movie was directed by Roger
Donaldson; who's directed such popular hits as 'COCTAIL', 'CADILLAC
MAN', 'THE BOUNTY', 'SPECIES' and 'DANTE'S PEAK' (which also stars
Brosnan). It was written by Michael Finch and Karl Gajdusek and based
on the book 'There Are No Spies' (which is the seventh installment in
'The November Man' series) by Bill Granger. It costars Luke Bracey,
Olga Kurylenko, Bill Smitrovich and Will Patton. I found it to be
pretty entertaining and surprisingly dark, and violent, but still
nothing too new or interesting to offer fans of the genre.

Brosnan plays Peter Devereaux; an ex-CIA agent who retired after a
student of his, David Mason (Bracey), accidentally killed a kid (while
the two were doing an assignment together in Montenegro). Since that
time Peter has started a relationship with another CIA operative, named
Natalia Ulanova (Mediha Musilovic). He comes out of retirement to aid
her on a deep cover assignment in Russia, when she's murdered by Mason;
under the orders of CIA chief Perry Weinstein (Patton). Peter then
wants revenge on the CIA, for killing Natalia, and will stop at nothing
to find out what vital information she uncovered and why she was killed
for it.

The story is that of a pretty routine espionage thriller but it does
take some pretty dark turns, here and there. Both Brosnan and Bracey's
characters do some pretty questionable 'anti-heroic' things that, at
times, leave the viewer questioning who they're supposed to root for.
So in that way I really enjoyed the movie. Brosnan does slip back into
the ultimate spy role with plenty of ease and Donaldson does a pretty
effective job delivering the action. Kurylenko looks stunning as usual
(and even uncannily resembles a young Catherine Zeta-Jones in some
scenes). The film might not have much original to offer, fans of the
genre, but it's still a lot of fun; I'd even say it's better than about
half of the James Bond movies.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://youtu.be/NiZxP8LDXto
<|_=00=_|>
... the year was 1974 and a hard-bitten journalist named Bill Granger
decided to follow the trend and write yet another spy novel about a
hard-bitten secret agent caught in a web of deceit. This was after all
the peak of the cold war and spy themes dominated fiction, film, TV,
even cartoons.

As it turned it, the November Man was well received and a number were
written in the series before it finally fizzled. Critics of the day
felt all were considerably above average. Granger had a knack for hard
prose because of his background.

Flash forward about a quarter-century and you will find an ex-Bond lead
with money in his pocket looking for projects he can continue working
in, even if the process involves spending some of his own money to
catch the plum roles. Which he accomplishes by buying the rights to one
of the later books in the Granger Series and re-naming the project
after the very first book in the series .. see? And so kind reader here
we are in 2014 with a project written in the late 20th century,
upgraded on a shoestring, mis-named, and spawned with the sole
intention of giving its greying star a payday.

What can possibly go wrong? Just about everything. I will point out,
for the record, and for skeptics, that it is possible to make something
new and wonderful out of something old and dusty -- look at the Bourne
Trilogy. (Which I have seen about six times, each).

But that is not what is happening here. Bereft of talent, we have a
weak script that constantly stumbles over the material it is adapting,
direction so lacklustre that even the action scenes appear to be in
slow-motion, and a star who might just as well have phoned it in.

Brosnan never, not once, connects with his character. At best, you have
an ageing Bondish character who appears to have landed in the wrong
movie. And, if the central character cannot find motivation ... how can
the audience?
<|_=00=_|>
I liked "The November Man." I thought the plot was straightforward, and
when it wasn't then a character made a statement explaining what was
happening. So many of these types of movies just have characters
running around shooting at one another without details being tied up
along the way. I did not feel that way about this movie.

I found myself rooting for the good characters, and having fun running
alongside the hero. No one is going to win an Oscar, but the acting was
well done for this type of movie.

It was a good 1.5 hours spent watching a spy thriller where the
resolution at the end leaves me without any lingering questions.

The movie plot/tempo felt familiar given that I have read the books. I
am hoping that more movies with this character are made.

P.S. It's a movie, not a film--ease up fellow critics.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not hard to see why Pierce Brosnan had, for a couple of years,
tried to get this film made; despite being a perfectly capable dramatic
actor, it is his time as James Bond that people remember most fondly
about the 61-year-old Irish actor, so it is no wonder that Brosnan
would want at some point to get back into the spy game. There is
pedigree and potential here too - the character is the protagonist of
novelist Bill Granger's 1980s Peter Devereaux series, and if this movie
adapted from the seventh book of that series hits paydirt, there are
always many other books on which a franchise could be built.

Thankfully for Brosnan, who also produces the movie through his Irish
Dreamtime company, 'November Man' is a sturdy enough thriller that
could be the start of several such mid-budget European-set sequels to
come. Gone are the gadgets, the girls and the quips that were a
centrepiece of Brosnan's 007 days though - Brosnan's Devereaux is the
kind of gritty spy Daniel Craig fashioned the 007 character after
Brosnan departed, a no-nonsense CIA man at the top of his game who
retired after a mission gone wrong with his protégé, David Mason
(Australian actor Luke Bracey).

Devereaux is pulled back into the field when his former handler from
Langley, a hawk-eyed Hanley (Bill Smitrovich), asks for his help to
pull an asset out of Moscow. The woman has critical information about
the future head of the Soviet Union, Arkady Federov (Lazar Ristovski),
which the CIA would like its hands on, but Devereaux accepts only
because she is also his former colleague and lover. That simple mission
goes unexpectedly awry when Devereaux finds himself pitted against
Mason, whose orders were not only to 'take out' the woman but also
Devereaux himself. What's more, Hanley is simultaneously taken into
custody by his own CIA unit, after it turns out that he had recruited
Devereaux behind their backs.

As scripted by Michael Finch and Karl Gajdusek, the film combines a
couple of familiar tropes. Here we have a teacher and his best protégé
turned enemies, so that we get to see just how much of the former's
skills the latter has honed into his own. We also get a spy versus the
Agency, with Devereaux seemingly gone rogue against the apparently
corrupted CIA establishment. And finally, we get a witness everyone is
after, who as Hollywood convention dictates, happens also to look like
a supermodel - that would be Alice Fournier (played by former Bond girl
Olga Kurylenko) - and is protected by none other than Devereaux
himself.

So far, so good - for the first hour, Roger Donaldson directs a
relatively taut and tense setup that keeps you hooked at trying to
figure out just who is playing who. We know Devereaux is the good guy
here, but just who is everyone else? Will Mason become a cold-hearted
killing machine to take out his former trainer? Is Mason's boss the one
pulling the strings? What does he have to do with an operation
involving Federov and a building which fell in Chechnya that
precipitated the war between the two countries? And just who is this
Mira whom everyone is looking for, who apparently has Federov's dirty
secrets from his past as a Russian general in the Chechen war?

But after a promising start, what was a tightly plotted affair starts
to go off the rails. There are a lot of revelations here, and to be
fair, a somewhat twisty knot of events to unravel the truth behind the
smokescreens. Yet, the scripting gets weaker by the minute - in
particular, a thoroughly extraneous scene where Devereaux confronts
Mason in his own apartment and decides to teach the latter a thing or
two about developing affections for the opposite sex by slashing the
femoral artery of his next-door neighbour/ girlfriend for no other
apparent reason - and the leaps of logic get more far-fetched as
Donaldson tries his darnest to keep the proceedings moving at a brisk
clip until the climax.

Never a less than competent helmer, Donaldson largely succeeds,
inserting some efficiently thrilling car chases, shootouts and hand-to-
hand combats in between the betrayals, admissions and ultimatums. It
certainly helps that Brosnan is just as sure a hand at playing a spy,
slipping effortlessly into the role with charisma and lending this
screen incarnation of Devereaux a dignity and poise that very few
silver-haired action stars can do. Brosnan's co-stars are however
forgettable, though Kurylenko proves to be a sight to behold in her own
right when she puts on a short sexy dress to seduce Federov in his own
hotel room.

To be sure, 'November Man' never quite comes close to the heights of
Bourne, which is in a league of its own. But for less demanding
audiences looking for some late-summer action, this entirely B-grade
Euro-set thriller will do the trick. It's got espionage, suspense,
blood, some sex (clearly trimmed here for an NC16 rating though), and
most of all, Brosnan; yes, the latter is singlehandedly the best thing
the film has going for it. And in turn, Brosnan gets his wish - an
opportunity back into the spy game, and a pretty good one at that too.
<|_=00=_|>
November Man is a hard edged mother of a ride that demands you pay
attention. I went back and watched it a second time because it was just
to intense to figure out every layer and twist. Between the velocity of
pace and the multiple story lines, I guessing these writers must be
gamers in their time off. 

Finally, this is the Brosnan we have been waiting to see. A hard man
with only a drop of humanity left that is closer to a bass ass killer
than a government agent. And definitely not a spy who would boat in on
a mission, slowly gliding through hundreds of torch lights, to get
information. Olga is another revelation. Admittedly, Quantum was not
her finest hour, but, Alice, her character in this film, might be one
of the best performances of her career. 

That brings me to Luke Bracey. Masculine, likable and a charming
opponent for Pierce. Not a star yet, but someone to take note of.
Another cool aspect of the film is that it is shot in Serbia which
feels like the perfect place to shoot this kind of movie. All the
actors were amazing including Lazar, the Russian president elect.

This is a spy film that makes you feel like you are witnessing real
events. Let's hope they continue to make more.
<|_=00=_|>
Pierce Brosnan puts his James Bond persona to bed with this film. I've
been off Brosnan in the last couple of years since Bond, though he's a
brave actor and has tried various roles. This one puts him firmly back
in the action mould. His character Devereaux could take Bond with one
arm behind his back - well not perhaps not Daniel Craig but he'd give
him a run for his money. It was as gritty a performance as I have ever
seen from Brosnan and ranks alongside the current Bond and Bourne for
tension and is not far behind for action. His character is cold and
dangerous and utterly ruthless. The plot too is clever with twists and
turns and betrayals. I was engrossed from start to finish. The action
is fast and graphic. Go see it. Its a fun ride.
