
I just watched "The Family" and I for one have had a very good time.
This movie is gleefully dark, wickedly funny and offers great acting
from all the stars involved, (who really seem to relish their parts). I
was shocked when I checked IMDb and found so many comments and reviews
from disappointed film fans. How can anyone complain about the violence
in this dark comedy and at the same time love films like "Fargo" (or
practically anything by the Coen Brothers, for that matter)? I came to
the conclusion that the main reason behind all the negative reviews is
that people expected something more akin to "Léon", "Goodfellas" or
"The Godfather" (where the violence isn't played for laughs), when in
fact this is something completely different: This is a black comedy
about a group of predators who have to hide among - unbearably arrogant
- sheep. You can imagine how well that will turn out (for the sheep).
Anyway, I admit that with other actors involved, this would probably
just have been an average mob comedy, but with the kind of talent you
get here, it's hard not to have a blast. My rating: 7 out of 10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I just left the movie theater and I am shocked about the amount of
bad reviews this movie had. I am a kind of huge fan of Tommy Lee Jones
and Robert De Niro so perhaps my opinion about this movie is a bit
influenced by that. Despite that, I must confess I truly enjoyed this
movie. It was funny and it was very interesting to see how the family
get used to an all new identity every time they had to move in. The
plot is basically about a family, the Mazonis, that was relocated to
Normandy under the witness protection program. So they had basically to
try fitting in soon to avoid being caught by the mafia members who were
trying to kill them. Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert De Niro were really
great playing their characters and despite not being an excellent
movie, "The Family" is enjoyable and is another great addition to Luc
Besson's career.
<|_=00=_|>
Very few actors into their old age have been able to resist the
temptation to play out their end years like the last five overs in a 50
over cricket match- keep featuring in any movie that pays decent money.
Of late, industry stalwart Rober De Niro has been guilty of the same,
but once in a while he does bring out the old sparkle, and more often
than not, that is generally in a mobster themed movie. Ditto for The
Family- a zany comedy about a family of criminals, who come in all
genders and ages.

Robert De Niro is Giovanni Manzoni, a crime boss on the run from his
gang, who he tattled on. Put under witness protection, he and his
family have a hard time sticking to their given identities as Giovanni
is unable to rein in his sadistic urges, leading to a murder here, and
a bashing there. His family is not far behind though- Michelle Pfeiffer
is one bad closet pyromaniac of a mother, Dianne Aragon is the
beautifully dangerous daughter, and John D'Leo is the young wheeler
dealer gun, waiting to make a name in the business. The kids are a chip
off the old block - brave and shrewd, with extremely practical, no
nonsense attitudes. Tommy Lee Jones is the FBI agent who has to help
these lunatics maintain a low profile. But all they keep doing, in
different doses of hilarity, is making a war-zone out of a mofussil
town.

Luc Besson makes a fine comeback with this funny gangster comedy- the
script is witty, the pace is fast, there are sudden scenes of shocking
violence, and equal doses of laugh out moments. All the actors do a
great job. This is a role meant for De Niro- he is a career don
(Goodfellas, The Godfather, Casino) and this is right up his alley, a
walk in the park. His interactions with his family are awesome, and at
the end i was left wanting more of this family- a sequel on the cards?
Michelle Pfeiffer's beauty has not dimmed one bit, and Tommy Lee Jones
maintains a straight face throughout the antics.

The Family is as much about a real family as it is about thugs. Growing
up pains, romance, responsibility, will to survive- all of it is nicely
packaged into a decent entertainer which has loads of laughter, guns,
hammers, baseball bats, explosions, and everything else you love about
the gangster movie genre- 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Manzoni family is in Witness Protection in Normandy, France because
Giovanni Manzoni (Robert DeNiro), who is now Fred Blake, ratted out the
Luchese mob family. Don Luchese (Stan Carp), the old Don, now in jail,
needs to find Giovanni to whack him. 

This isn't exactly a comedy, not so much a drama, not really a thriller
and I would say it's light drama with comedic overtones, although I
didn't experience many chuckles. It's watchable and kind of enjoyable
until we get 16-yr old daughter Belle (Dianna Agron) viscously beating
up on a classmate with a tennis racket. Later Fred Blake takes a
baseball bat to a local plumber. And, still later Fred beats up on the
manager of a water distribution facility. The viciousness of the
beatings were too extreme for this movie and went too far in my
opinion. It was like watching someone beating a dead horse. Not good. 

Fred's wife, Maggie (Michelle Pfeiffer), blows things up when she gets
upset. I guess old habits are hard to die when one is attached to a mob
family. 

On a less violent side, the son, 13-year old Warren Blake (John D'Leo)
gets involved at school with black market cigarettes and prescription
pills. See, the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. 

Then we have FBI Agent Stansfield (Tommy Lee Jones) whose job it is to
protect the family. Later he learns that Fred is writing the story of
his life and if that ever got out well

The acting by all is fine, but you somehow get the idea that all is not
as serious as it really is. In other words the door is left open for
somewhat comedic comments. 

The interactions among the family are good, supportive and genuine.
They have each other's backs and that will be needed when Don Luchese's
men find the family. You didn't forget about them, did you? (5/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: Yes, Belle and her tutor teacher against a door.
Nudity: No. Language: Yes, the kids too.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is total crap.

You have some well known actors trying their luck to some kind of black
comedy which tries to glorify violence as the solution for everything.
Problems with the local supermarket? The mayor's office? The plumber?
Some other minor injustice? Even love problems? The solution is ONLY
one: Express your inner anger with brutality and violence.

To pile over this mess, in the middle of the movie you get an obvious
meta-joke asking De Niro's character about ...Goodfellas (1990) only to
get another glorifying description of the ways of the mob.

Luc Besson directs these while is trying to build a "palette" of elder
actors who kick ass, like Liam Neeson, Kevin Costner and now De Niro.

Overall: An unfunny and disturbing black comedy which tries to glorify
violence as the solution for everything. If you want to see a teenage
boy and a teenage girl hitting repeatedly other kids in the skull and
De Niro change to a hammer after he broke the baseball bat which he was
using to break the feet of a poor plumber who ask for an advance for
his work, then go and watch this crap...
<|_=00=_|>
I love DeNiro. Love Pfeiffer. Love Jones. But I hate this movie. It was
one of those flicks that had me wishing it'd end soon so I could get on
with my life, and if I weren't rather "OCD-ish" about finishing what
I've started, I'd have turned it off after 20 minutes. It really was
*that* bad -- so bad that, in the middle of it, I turned to my husband
and wondered aloud if DeNiro actually read the script before he signed
on.

The main characters -- the family members -- were surpassingly
unlikable, their only redeeming quality being the love they had for
each other. If that affection didn't exist, they could rightly be
considered complete psychopaths. They blew things up, killed people,
beat people, committed arson, stole -- and all for ridiculous reasons.
It's sad that we're apparently expected to relate to and root for such
people.

Their being despicable is one thing, but their being inconsistent is
another. Even if some viewer somewhere actually were to like these
people, it's hard to imagine anyone buying into characters that just
don't make logical sense. The daughter, for ex., is a seriously tough
chick, a butt-whupper par excellence who's down with her brother's
scheming to become a veritable "mob boss" at their school. She's also,
though, a wide-eyed virgin who fell in love with and threw herself at
some hot, French tutor, and then almost killed herself when he didn't
treat her seduction of him as anything more than an "experience." 

Another problem with "The Family" amounts to a sort of "deus ex
machina" type of thing. To move the plot along, some crazily dreamed-up
coincidences occurred, my favorite being a school newspaper from
Normandy, France ending up in the hands of "the bad guys" -- in a
prison in New York City. Chyeah.

Further, the movie couldn't make up its mind as to genre. It was
supposed to be a dark comedy, but wasn't remotely funny enough to fit
the bill. Some reviews here pretty much accuse folks who talk about
this flick's violence of not "getting" the concept of a dark comedy, so
I'll set the record straight: I do get it. For ex., "Motel Hell" and
"Pulp Fiction" are violent. And they're pretty hilarious in parts. "The
Room" ends in a suicide, but had me laughing all the way through it.
See? I *get* it. But *this* movie isn't funny at all. And it fails as a
drama because of the characters' utter nastiness and "unrelatability,"
and those inane coincidences.

Worst of all, though, the movie was simply b-o-r-i-n-g. It's not even
"so bad, it's good." Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Expecting a comedy? This isn't what you had in mind. It is difficult to
mix genres. Here they are trying to mix comedy with blood bath
violence. The violence is over the top.

The comedy doesn't work. The premise of being relocated to Normandy
feels like a needed stretch to get the financial participation to get
the film made. The performances are good, but you don't care about any
character in the movie. Tommy Lee Jones is getting too old for these
roles.

There is a good score but it's often loud and too noticeable. The movie
is too long and drags in the middle on the way to the blood bath
ending. Don't let the cast or fun trailer suck you in. This is a no fun
waste of time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
I could hear a thunderstorm outside, so I stayed and watched it all. In
retrospect, I would have had more fun standing in the rain. Early in
the film, there may have been a smile or two in the lines. Once the
gratuitous violence and killings began, I sat there wondering where did
I go wrong? I am probably too old to laugh at needless killings. I find
it about as funny as teen suicide. In slasher films, the body count is
the point; here, well . . . what's the point? Whenever things got
boring, another character was killed needlessly. The filmmakers at
least had the restraint not to shoot the dog, but had no qualms about
the needless killing of a friendly neighbor.
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and again, a film comes along that contains a scene so
memorable that , the moment you see it, you immediately know that you
will still be remembering it long after the rest of the film is lost to
history. This is one of those films. Overall, it is yet another
"drama-dy" of the type that de Niro has been losing himself in, at this
later stage of his spectacular career. It is one of those films which,
as the professional critics say, was doomed to fail, since the premise
is so weak that, even if it were to fire on all cylinders (which it
does not) you would still not get much of a bang.

But in the first 20 mins of this film, viewers get a treat.
Transplanted to France as part of some not very credible WPP (witness
protection program) de Niro's daughter Belle, well played by Dianna
Agron, gets "offered a lift home" by a quartet of local punks looking
to see that the girl's first day at school is memorable. She accepts.
They drive to a secluded spot and she protests. Punk #1 basically
ignores her and meaningfully brushes some of her clothing aside. She
excuses herself, goes to the car, picks up a tennis racket (iconic, of
course, in American gangster fiction) and promptly beats the %^$% out
of the guy while his friends watch. She then effectively steals the car
and drives herself home. While beating him senseless, this is the art
in the scene, she lectures him as if he were a small child. She
concludes her monologue with the epic line, "WOMEN ARE YOUR FUTURE" and
then one more smack upside the head with the bat to drive the point
home. I do believe this scene is right up there with the best talking
points in Thelma and Louise, and maybe one or two other feminist
classics also. But that folks is where the wonderment ends. The rest of
the film is not much to write home about, except perhaps for the
annotation that, in her late 50s, Pfeiffer is still one of the most
beautiful women in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
**Spoiler**

The dog was the best actor in the film. Had all the best lines but
never hogged the scenes. He delivered his lines with style, feeling and
perfect diction. His role demanded a harmonious interaction with the
other actors. 

Everybody else? You've got to be kidding. Their lines came right off a
cereal box, their characters were despicable. Setting a family of
illiterate gangsters in rural France where all the French people speak
near-perfect English -- even in school -- was insulting. The audience
is supposed to buy into this bull? 

I've come to the conclusion that certain 'actors' are rotated thru on a
cycle, repeating their signature performances for audiences more
interested in killing time than in being entertained. The audiences are
as typecast as the actors. 

The dog was good.
