
A lot of people compare Dark Places to Gone Girl and say, book-wise,
Gone Girl was the better book. I actually liked Dark Places better, so
when I found out they were making it into a movie, I was of course
skeptical about whether or not it'd be good. I just finished watching
it and was happy that my skepticism was for naught - this movie stayed
true to the book. Casting was done well and the flow proved that the
screenplay writers & director paid attention to the original book.

The book is dark, has some twists and turns and doesn't gloss over
anything. Where in Gone Girl I felt like some scenes were made a little
lighter for the screen, Dark Places doesn't have that issue. The sets
were also very accurate - it's been YEARS since I read the book, but
while watching the movie everything came back to me...the layout of the
farm house, the crappy apartment Libby lived in as an adult with her
collection of stolen items...all the way down to crap hole Runner was
living in...

This is not going to be a big blockbuster. Most people will not like it
(as you can tell by the ratings) but I will tell you, if you like
thrillers/mysteries with twists and turns then watch it. If you've read
the book, watch it. It's not the greatest movie ever done, but it was
good enough that I felt compelled to write my first IMDb review.

And even if you don't watch the movie, read the book. If you like
Patterson, Demille or Clancy, you'll like Dark Places.
<|_=00=_|>
What do you expect from a story with a title like that? You do indeed
find them in this earnest and thoughtful movie. A fifteen-year-old boy
accused of pedophilia and Satan worship who gets his girlfriend
pregnant and is then accused of murdering his mother and two sisters by
his third sister - how much darker can you get without it seeming too
contrived? 

As with Flynn's other tale brought to the cinema, Gone Girl, there is a
mystery at the heart of the story that leads to a surprise ending that
has been carefully built up but is nonetheless completely unexpected. A
constellation of great character actors helps populate this dreary
landscape of poverty and despair. And it does end with a note of
resolution and hope. The truth shall set you free. 

The plot revolves around an event that takes place in 1985 and an
investigation thirty years later that seeks justice for the boy sent to
jail for killing three family members. Fans of the book should be
pleased with the faithful and sensitive adaptation. 

I went last night to the world premiere in Paris. Charlize Theron was
there, thanking the French people for understanding her attraction to
dark places. Her brilliant performance may not get her another Oscar -
the film itself is not the sort of story that many will find
entertaining - but she has again created a memorable character who
suffers and is redeemed.
<|_=00=_|>
Dark Places was interesting but not as riveting as I had hoped. I never
had a chance to read the book - because the movie came out very early
in France - so I watched the film with fresh eyes not knowing what I
was in for. Problem solver that I am, I watched the film looking for
clues but I fairly quickly had all the right suspects lined up before I
even got through a quarter of the movie. I don't know if it's a
testament to my "mad" deductive skills or a lack of mystery in the
story telling. The exact same thing happened to me with Gone Girl - the
book - which is why I didn't finish reading it. I guess I was hopping
for more of a challenge with Dark Places, something that would have
surprised me at the end.

Anyway, I still enjoyed the film, particularly how Libby's past
memories were shot. They had an 1980s feel to them, I mean in the
quality of the images, they had an old VHS tape look to them. They were
grainy and shaky, which also gave them an horror movie vibe, while at
the same time illustrating how Libby feels about them. 

The film is like the title suggest dark, and I'm not just talking about
the murders but the whole context the characters are in. It's socially
realistic, you really feel for the struggling mother (Christina
Hendricks) and her kids, the poverty and the hardship of their
situation is almost palpable and that's thanks to Hendricks'
performance. The rest of the cast is good but Christina Hendricks and
Corey Stoll stand out and elevate the film.

So to me Dark Places really depicts how prejudices, despair, and a
bunch of white lies can snow ball and change people's lives forever.
It's definitely not thriller of the year but the film is not boring.
@wornoutspines
<|_=00=_|>
I am one of the lucky guys to watch this movie in Paris earlier than
the fans around the world. After the initial 30 minutes, the movie
starts picking up its pace which was maintained till the end.The
screenplay and direction were near perfect. 

Needless to say, Charlize Theron has done an amazing job in acting. She
carries the film on her shoulder from the beginning to the end. Next to
her, Chloe has done a good job. Apart from these actors, the other
people play a little role.

I can say that it's better than Gone Girl. Just go for it people. You
won't get disappointed. My rating : 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A great little movie. Slow and intense, it tells a very good story.
Compelling as well as intriguing, the movie real characters. Normal
human beings that for better or for worse are people dealing with their
life in a desperate way of making things better. It is heart braking as
well as full of hope even is the latter is harder to find at times. I
had a great time watching this movie but I also didn't expect it to be
Gone Girl - which is directed by David Fincher. Gilles Paquet-Brenner
gives us a good mystery with a secret that doesn't reveal itself until
the very end. Great cast, good script but this movie is more
challenging than Fincher's. Gave it your absolute attention, and you
will be rewarded.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike Gone Girl (which I liked a lot), this movie does not have a
major plot twist in the middle. This is a Whodunit, with the finger
pointed on a different character every 15 minutes or so. And instead of
flashy, campy directing by David Fincher, Paquet- Brenner opts for
social realism and... dark. Which is a good thing, because it keeps the
focus on the plot which is thick, and moves at breakneck speed. The
past and the present are interwoven seamlessly until the end, which was
surprisingly moving - and for my money more satisfying than Gone
Girl's. The acting is solid throughout, with special mention to
Christina Hendricks and Corey Stoll as the emotional core. Hendricks is
absolutely stellar. Gillian Flynn's unique voice comes through in the
Voice Over narration and the dialogues which are at times funny and
quite cynical. This time, the themes are growing up as a victim,
confronting your past, the satanic panic of the 80's, as as with Gone
Girl, the lies we tell ourselves and others. Definitely worth the price
of admission. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie does a huge disservice to the book. The
screenwriter/director went on an ego trip and cut and/or drastically
changed characters, changed the setting, and then did lip service to
most of the major scenes. Some of the most pivotal scenes in the movie
were present, but the setup for why they were important was never made,
so when those scenes took place you were just sitting there going
"meh." 

Example - Ben shows up with dyed hair in the kitchen, but the reaction
from the sisters is not nearly as volatile because there's no setup for
their circumstances. They skipped over the sh*% storm of an environment
that the mother returns to when she comes back with Diane. Later on,
when you meet Ben Day as an adult, he is balding and his natural hair
color is dark brown...completely eliminating the significance of the
dye. 

They took away all the suspense of the movie, every person you
suspected of committing the murders in the book wasn't even suspicious
in the movie. Long before the climactic scene, you knew who killed
everyone and you didn't care. Then for some unknown reason they changed
the end to something that is just incredibly boring. 

Example - Lou Cates is presented as some scrawny average middle aged
man, not intimidating at all, and except for some side comment by Lyle
about him being arrested later for assault, you would never have known
he had any kind of depth to him at all, but by the time you find that
out, you don't care and he's never presented as a potential suspect.

None of the characters were properly developed; they were inconsistent
with the book, and within the movie itself. Diondra was some sad
emotional, but slightly manipulative girl whose only erratic behavior
took place under the influence of drugs. How you go from that to what
she does makes no sense at all, whereas in the book her actions were
consistent with her character.

Other than a small example of kleptomania, Libby Day was never
developed as the dark, disturbed person that Gillian Flynn wrote about.
One of the primary agenda's of Gillian Flynn's writing is to show that
women can be just as dark and twisted as your stereotypical dark male
protagonist; this movie failed miserably in that. 

Lastly, I'm not really sure what movie the other reviewers watched, but
the acting was about as good your average lifetime network special. The
scene at the Cates' house was particularly abysmal...no one was
believable. Just a huge waste of an amazing book.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to do this short and sweet: This film starts out like an
episode of "True Detective" or "Touching Evil", and then as it comes
down to the final inning, shifts into a beautifully paced and developed
revelation, that is truly unexpected and chilling. 

Charlize Theron, as always, is amazing. Her performance here has the
intensity of both "Monster" and "North Country, " and she gets great
support from the supporting cast. 

Ignore negative reviews. This is a film that you need to see and then
make an opinion about. For me, this was a very satisfying and effective
movie that deserved far more accolades than it has received. 

After viewing "Dark Places", It is hard for me to comprehend that it is
not receiving a positive buzz right now. After being somewhat
disappointed with "Goodnight Mommy" and seriously disappointed with "It
Follows," "Dark Places" is a thriller that actually thrills. Bottom
line" you need to see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't care much for Gone Girl -- maybe it was Ben Affleck -- but I
was drawn to this movie despite that. Maybe it was Charlize Theron,
maybe it was Nicholas Hoult, whom I have enjoyed watching grow into a
first rate actor since his days in Skins. In any case, whatever
reservations I had at first rapidly dissolved into a distant memory as
the first ten minutes passed.

Usually I roll my eyes at flashback-driven efforts, but not so with
Dark Places. Each switch back to 1985 is like the tumblers on a lock
giving that satisfying click as you pick it, breeding anticipation and
certainty that there is a rich reward at the end for your efforts,
every scene evoking a subtle revelation that drives the story onward.

Well cast, well scored, well directed, Dark Places deserves more
recognition than it has garnered. If I had to point out one flaw, it
would be a forgivable one; MISFITS swag was not that easy to come by in
1985.
<|_=00=_|>
A lack of pace and discernible direction robs Dark Places of any real
interest. 

Like the main character Libby Day this is a listless, aimless, rather
lifeless film, so over injected with cynicism and nihilism that you
quickly stop caring who did what to who. 

The acting is passable but I'm damned if I see what the fuss is
regarding Charlize Theron. I've yet to see anything from this actor
that's truly impressive. This film is no exception. Wandering around in
a hat being sarcastic, glaring and smoking, just don't cut the acting
mustard in my estimation. My advice, give this one a miss. Three out of
ten from me.
