
I am visiting Lebanon this summer and surprisingly was shocked to see
more than 10 minutes of Lesbian sex were heavily censored in a country
regarded as one of the most civilized countries in the Arab world and
where people are open-minded!!!. Even The Lesbian Kiss Between
Charlieze Theron And Sofia Boutella was censored from the movie in
Lebanon,even in all Arabian countries this is happening!!!. Despite the
fact it is rated 16+ in Lebanon, the Lebanese General Security censors
Lesbianism & gay adult scenes!!!. 

Lorraine Broughton is a sexy and smart spy in MI6, an agent who is
always ready to use all of her lethal skills to stay alive during an
impossible mission. With the Berlin Wall about to fall, she travels
into the heart of the city to retrieve a priceless dossier and take
down a ruthless espionage ring. Once there, she teams up with an
embedded station chief to navigate her way through the deadliest game
of spies.

Catchy Disco Music,except for the noisy hard rock song.Clever
acting,great action and amazing direction.

Do Not See This Movie In Any Arab Country (Including Lebanon) where
censorship is heavy!.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not averse to watching attractive people grind their naked bodies
together or punch, shoot and stab each other. But when a movie has
nothing else to offer besides a selection of 1980s pop hits and
washed-out shots of a largely fictional Berlin, I tend to get bored.
And boy, did this contrived McGuffin chase bore me to death. The
paper-thin plot only exists to somehow string the various stunt, fight,
sex and car chase scenes together. The fact that many of the positive
reviews laud Charlize Theron's physical appearance and gush about the
lesbian sex scene shows how utterly forgettable the entire rest of this
movie is. I mostly give it 3 stars for the musical score, even though I
could have listened to an '80s mixtape for free.
<|_=00=_|>
i've seen the amazing trailers and i couldn't wait to see the movie,
especially the music.Charlize, James and beautiful Sofia totally
great.The scene between Charlize and Sofia was breathtaking :) James
was like always he has been, and Charlize WOW No:1 Female actress for
me
<|_=00=_|>
Atomic Blonde is a great action movie from the beginning to the end.I
really loved it.The thing I hate about this movie is the unnecessary
bad language.

Delicious woman Charlieze Theron is is a British agent MI6 sent to a
divided Berlin on a secret mission to track enemies and spies. She is
surrounded by hostile opponents everywhere she goes. She is the Wonder
Woman or the Super woman who is so capable of fighting every aggressive
and evil person,thanks to her profession in combat fighting.

The Lesbian Sex Scenes were short,but hot indeed for Lesbians to enjoy.

The Fighting Scenes Are Amazing.

I advise all adults and especially Lesbians to see this magnificent
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Atomic Blonde is one of the coolest movies of the year. This movie was
action packed the whole way through. If you are wanting a rush in the
movies this is the movie for you to see this summer. The movie was not
the only good thing about the movie the acting was on point, the action
was great, and the soundtrack was totally 80s. Thus was definitely a
mind blowing action film.

Parents this film has a bunch of sex scenes involving woman and women
so I don't think this is a family film at all. This movie also has some
of the best action scenes I have ever seen in a movie this movie was
just non stop action packed fun. John Goodman was Fantastic in this,
but he is good in everything he is in. If you like my review of Atomic
Blonde and if it was helpful then go enjoy the movie.

My score 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the movie but just one minor error. The spent cartridge shown is
not a 7.62 Tokarev round. The 7.62x25 Tok is a bottle-necked pistol
round. Looks like a small rifle round and will penetrate any Kevlar
armor at point-blank range except for ballistic plate(steel, ceramic or
poly-carbonate).
<|_=00=_|>
I think many reviewers, including the mainstream media, have been far
too generous to this film.

Basically, the plot line is rather thin so there is a lot of emphasis
on style. Charlize Theron ponces around in a lot of different designer
outfits - she seems to be wearing a different one for each scene - and,
despite knocking back bottles of Stolichnaya vodka and chain smoking,
she still seems to be able to beat the crap out of every man who tries
to kill her.

Percival, the British agent heading up Berlin, is another hard boozing,
hard smoking spy who likes to drive at top speed around the city in his
Porsche (wanting to blend into the local environment apparently, plus
his short haircut).

The film does have some good fight scenes and what makes it credible is
the West and East Berlin backdrop that is very authentic and captures
the mood of the time, and I also enjoyed the 1980s background music.
However, the whole film is a bit of a tongue-in- cheek romp that has a
very thin veneer of depth to it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm quite a big fan of spy/action movies, so when I saw the trailer, I
quickly went to see it. Atomic Blonde, based on a graphic novel The
Coldest City, is directed by David Leitch and it stars Charlize Theron
as the main protagonist, who is a MI-6 field agent. 

Set in the late 80', the action takes place in Berlin, before the
collapse of the Berlin Wall. MI-6 agent Lorraine Broughton is sent
there to get back the List, which contains the names of agents from
both sides (Soviets and NATO) active in Berlin. She teams up with David
Percival, who is a British station chief there and the spy games may
begin. From close combat and pursuing to trying to save other agents,
the film is quite moving and gripping. With epic combat skills of
Lorraine Broughton, the film has a lot of action in it. 

Being an action movies lover, I found the movie to be highly
entertaining and quite interesting to watch. I loved the fighting
scenes and who they were filmed, also the soundtrack was amazing. For
me, definitely one of the best spy movie I've seen in a while, so it
was a pleasant way to enjoy a day off. Would recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of cool cinematography here with unique shades and hues to
reflect different scenes to really make them pop along with some great
80s music. It's nice to see a decent female spy lead her own espionage
flick, like "Mission: Impossible Rogue Nation's Rebecca Ferguson but
with more screen time. John Wick co-director David Leitch's boldly over
the top "Atomic Blonde" is stuffed on plotting and heavy with neon lit
visuals, but it will satisfy your craving for woman powered heroism. 

There is no Bond humor here the film draws parallels to Angelina
Jolie's "Salt". While "Atomic Blonde's story is more "Tinker Tailor
Soldier Spy" than actually "Salt" Allow the icy, unbeatable Charlize
Theron and her "Fury Road" certified action chops to escort you through
a maze of devious Cold War intrigues in a movie filled with high wire
fights and high end fashion. John Goodman plays the CIA spook, James
McAvoy and Sofia Boutella are involved in a love triangle with
Charlize. All parties are after the Magoffin in this case a list. I
highly recommend this on VidAngel it's a very hard R film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie immensely had James Bond tendencies with a small shot of
Bourne Identity in the mix (all the while based in the eighties). That
been said I don't mean that in an unoriginal manner, quite the contrary
- it was completely original and all the while exhilarating. Charlize
Theron was pure electric in her spy tailored role yet enigmatic at the
same time. Not to mention the rest of the cast perfectly meshed in this
flick (from James McAvoy & Toby Jones to John Goodman & Sofia
Boutella), while the story made you yearning for more. And with all the
talk these past few years of one day having a female James Bond, well
look no further - this movie will surely fill your appetite via the
realm of spy films, and then some...
