
5 annoying students find out how to build a time machine with some car
batteries and an Xbox....during the first test, a toy car ends up
welded into a wall. They decide to try it on themselves...just as
they're about to "jump" the leader warns them they might explode. They
do it anyway, and use time travel to get better answers on their tests,
and to get girls, win the lottery,humiliate the school bully, and get
back stage passes to an Imagine Dragons gig. Someone they know dies on
a random plane crash, so the leader goes back in time to say hi to his
dad, who died 10 years previously, and destroys the time machine.It
ends abruptly. The audience walk away, wishing they also had a time
machine so they could go back and stop everyone involved in the making
of this nonsense.
<|_=00=_|>
So the films starts off establishing that they are all smart, and the
sister likes to film. The whole film is done in the found footage
format.

The story is actually interesting when you break it down. The whole
ground hog moment, was to establish the beginning of the ripple effect.
Every time Quinn entered the Chemistry room, he showed cockiness and
preparations, which led the teacher to throw curve ball questions. and
until Quinn knew the answers to all of the possible questions he had to
keep on repeating it.

The lottery ticket. "Why didn't they go back and rewrite it" as Adam
said he didn't want to waste his time worrying that some how they
cheated and being in that panic mode. Remember how nervous their were
filling in the paper and get away from the store after. Plus this was,
plus don't forget this is still all experiments for them. They can go
back and win more lotteries any time they wanted to.

David kept on pushing the machines ability to travel further by using
the time watchers. Remember in the begging he said that they can only
go back as far as 3 weeks, but later he said it can be possible to go
back up to 10 years. Next step was 3 month: Lollapalooza. we did hear
his sister say that she missed out.

This is where it starts to get more complicated and can be taken in two
theories. After the failed kiss David goes back to Lollapalooza and if
we see carefully he is walking at fast paced and his friends say "Oh
there he is." "Looks like he is actually gonna do it" So we can assume
that there was a period of time in which the first time David was away
trying to get the courage to approach her, and the second David timed
it so that he would take her on this walk before he managed to get
there. Still don't get it? Think of Back to the future when Marty goes
back for the second time and has to make sure he doesn't run into
himself in the past.

David going all the way back to his 7th birthday after Jessie's
disappearing. We saw Quinn nearly disappear when he started to look at
himself, but the guys quickly moved him away from his sight. They broke
the circle of both consciousness trying to comprehend what was
happening. Unfortunately for Jessie, David didn't do that and let the
circle complete erasing her at the present time line. So if he was to
go back another day, she would still exist in that period. But not from
Tuesday 7pm or whatever it was.

David destroying the machine in the end is paradox. No its not, and
here is why in the first video of him being seen in the mirror. His
father is lighting up the candles, when he goes back in the end, his
father is talking to his mother. In the first Video when they figure
out that the keys belong to Jessie and re watch the video, there is no
blood on his hand, when he is there in the end, the blood is clearly
visible. Him trying to save his father the first time, theory. His
father clearly states "You figured it... i have so many questions"
Obviously his father knew that he wasn't going to figure it out. and
most importantly why was he hiding it after the mysterious phone call?
he knew that he was going to die, probably for not handing over the
machine to the government. "Why you ask?' well because David in the end
says "its time for you to say goodbye to your son" and the father's
line to the young version of David "A friend, he is here to fix
something" My assumption on this, is that his father knew the risks
with the machine, and was hoping to either have more to study it or die
protecting its secret. After seeing his son, he clearly understood what
he was there to do.

So why was David in the first video originally, Because the movie we
were watching was not the prime time line, but rather already altered
time line where David wanted to speak to his father in hopes of
figuring out what can be done to try and change the future. Second time
line David came back a few moments later. Remember him stopping at the
door for few seconds? No? re watch it. David would not have been caught
in the Party camera the second time. Through the clips when David was
watching all of the party moments, The camera captured the moment when
his father was talking to the mother about the call and was in a
different angle, so he erased any evidence of himself at that party
from that camera. He burnt all of the notes and destroyed the machine
as he did that we see that he starts to flicker. That happens, because
destroying the machine means you destroy the one that is in your
backpack, and if the one in your back pack never existed then you never
came here. The camera CAN BE (ad argued for a plot hole but) explained
as just a object, which could not alter the universe (Like leaving a
stick behind) Camera doesn't have any living organisms or bacteria. The
end is them seeing the second camera and discovering that they learned
how to time travel, and seeing presumable everything that we saw in the
film. So when he walks up to Jessie at the end, he already seen it and
knew what she was going to say. But they no longer can time travel, as
the machine or the blue prints don't exist 

Hope you guys liked my review! and any questions feel free to send me a
message.
<|_=00=_|>
Project Almanac is a found footage time travel movie. And as far as
time travel films go this must be one of the worst I've ever seen. It
takes them almost half of the movie to make the damn thing (with old
car batteries and Xbox 360 parts) and once they have the power to
travel through time, what do they do? Go to parties and concerts coz
apparently they were to stupid to go to them like in normal time. The
movie also does little effort to respect some time travel rules like
concerning duplicates off yourself already being there at the same
place etc. Spoiler: they redo a certain part like 8 times (groundhog
style like the characters correctly state) to do...a chemistry test
over and over. WTF??? Then they get the fantastic idea to play the
lottery, they f*ck it up by only filling in 5 of the 6 numbers
correctly so they only win 1,8 m$ instead of 53m$, and THAT they only
do once??? I have to say I've never seen a time travel flick where the
characters and the retarded plot enraged me so much as this one. I know
the target audience is teenagers but even they must have seen better in
this genre. The directors next movie is going to be 'Power Rangers'.
I'm wondering if he was so stupid to choose that himself or if the
studio execs wanted to punish him for making dumb movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a tough nut to crack. Honestly I do not understand the
artistic choice in cinematography AT ALL. This has to be the worst
found footage film ever made.

When you look apart from that, why is it that American teens are made
out to be hysterical hyper idiots even when the story line tries to
pass them off as potential MIT students? The general behaviour and
choices made takes a lot away from the plot or story line of the movie
and simply makes it that much harder to accept the concept.

In the end this movie feels like a dumbed down version of Butterfly
Effect, but maybe that's what this generation of teens need? Something
hype and simple to soothe their unimaginative minds.

Major thumbs down...
<|_=00=_|>
Before watching Project Almanac, I'd only ever walked out of one film
before but after watching this film, I've since doubled my score.
Project Almanac was painful- the acting was hammy, the plot development
was that of a TV drama and the Gopro and Redbull product placement was
cringe-worthy. I recommend watching this film only if you've
time-travelled into the future and want to experience first hand what a
bad film is. Project Almanac was either a failed, twenty year homage to
the 'Back to the Future' trilogy or was trying to expose a new
generation to the awe of time travel. Either way it failed and was just
another American teen film held together with a shoddy story line. I
can't tell you how it ends, but I'm sure the protagonist gets the girl
and everything works out with his dead Dad.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching Project Almanac and if you haven't seen it
yet, you might want to check it out. I was pleasantly surprised being
that I had low hopes going in. it's another found footage movie, so if
you are sick of them you might not enjoy it very much. Also if you're
already not into time travel or science in general you might leave the
theater with a bad taste in your mouth. I ended up enjoying it quite a
bit and if I had to compare it to another movie I would say it has a
strong feel of Project X and Chronical mixed together with the bases of
it being more scientific then social(Project X) or
supernatural(Chronical). You'll spend more time than usual feeling
happy for the characters as they're having fun rather than the usual
dose of drama every five minutes to keep people chewing their finger
nails wondering what's going to happen next if Marie finds out Tony was
talking to Marisa behind the bleaches and all that teen nonsense. it
had a few mistakes but it's a movie so get over it. If I had to say one
bad thing about it, I couldn't. I love science, I thoroughly enjoyed
this movie, and for me it was an easy line drive down the middle of the
plate knocked right out of the park. Personally I would give it a solid
8 out of 10 but if you're not a science buff you might be looking more
at a 6-6.5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This film seems to have really divided people on here but on the whole
I really liked it.

Teenager David Raskin (A very good Jonny Weston, an actor clearly with
a good career ahead of him) is a bit of a brain box at school. His best
friend is an even bigger nerd than he is and not as brainy and of
course he fancies one of the it girls, while his sister is being
bullied by some others. Weston is a very good looking actor, so trying
to pass him off as a science geek is really a bit of a stretch one of
the films weakest flaws but one I was prepared to forgive. This group
form an unlikely alliance when they discover via one of David's
deceased Dad's experiments, they have invented time travel. They jump
together and change various things in their recent past and also do
some fairly typical teenage things like go and win the lottery. Someone
on here was moaning saying people wouldn't do that, they would go back
and see people they loved and so on - well I am fairly certain as a
teenager I would do both.

Our lead character though cannot leave well enough alone and jumps once
too often and the ripple effect begins to cause them problems.

Project Almanac is a found footage film and these normally alone will
cause me not to watch them but I found the premise of this one
intriguing enough to seek it out. It's helped by a reasonably good
script which plays out like a good episode of the Twilight Zone but
what really helps the film is the cast. Its pretty rare that a group of
teenage actors should all be universally so good, but that is certainly
the case here. Sofia Black-D'Elia who more recently starred in Born of
War is especially good and one I predict big things for while Sam
Lerner who plays the thankless role of the Annoying friend clearly has
taken on board everything his actor father taught him. This really is a
talented group of individuals. 

The film reminded me of the 1980s cult film The Explorers and I found
myself rooting for the hero towards the end because you wanted him to
set everything right. I really enjoyed this film and stayed up really
late when I was super tired to watch it. Thankfully I wasn't bored and
I was with them until the end. Recommended, from me at least anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailer to this film I thought what a fantastic idea
and great story this would be. The potential for greatness was evident.

Sadly, the film failed to live up to what it could have been: A great
thriller and sci-fi classic.

The "shaky cam" style of the film was overdone and nauseating at times.
I feel that the story could have been far better served by shooting it
traditionally or at least limiting the use of the "shaky cam." The
story has far too many plot holes and flaws and contradictions to be
believable or even enjoyable. Again, such a wasted potential. It could
have been so much more.

For instance, the main characters express that the reason they built
the time machine was not about the money yet one of the first things
they do is go back in time to win the Lottery. They could have sold the
technology to a global "Microsoft" type corporation and become
billionaires and helped to further the advancement of mankind however
this group decides to use the time machine for their own selfish and
ultimately stupid ends.

I ask you, if you had a time machine at your disposal, what would you
use it to do or change? avert disasters? save lives? See your loved
ones again? The protagonists in this film use it to:pass an exam, pick
up girls, stand up to a bully and go to a concert. All things that they
could have done without a time machine.

And speaking of the main characters, again they are badly written and
flawed. Right from the start they are portrayed as a group of bumbling
fools that mess up at every turn. It is really hard to believe that
these clowns had the brains to build a time machine.

As an example, with all the knowledge of the future at their disposal
they still manage to Not win the Lottery through sheer ineptness. It
also takes them about 5 attempts to pass that chemistry exam, having to
travel back in time multiple times. Certainly not the bright minds that
you would expect to create such a revolutionary invention (even if the
plans were already there for them).

I could go on and on about the numerous flaws and mistakes that make no
sense at all, and believe me the list is exhaustive. But instead I will
just say what a disappointment this film was. The potential for
greatness was there and yet it was squandered hopelessly through bad
writing, poor camera work and nonsensical plot-holes and poor character
development.

I could not recommend this movie to anyone. What a waste...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to include any spoilers. I enjoyed the story and found
the cast appealing. It was an interesting idea with some good special
effects. There were a couple of plot holes but there were also some
funny nods to movies such as Back to the Future which I enjoyed. You
remember the scene where Doc Brown is trying to get two electric cables
to connect?

It reminded me a lot of the superb low-budget 'Primer' which covers
some of the same ground. In that movie, some geekie guys accidentally
discover time-travel and have to decide what to do with it. Also,
Almanac had some good jokes, which many movies seem to leave out.

Seriously, did you see any jokes in Man of Steel? Sadly the shocking
camera work ruined the whole experience.All the jumping about,
whirling, juddering and flicking etc. It just made me feel ill.
<|_=00=_|>
Much like Chronicle, this film profiles exactly what would happen when
you give teenagers certain powers. In Chronicle it was "super powers"
in Project Almanac, it's the ability to travel through time. There were
elements of this film that made me give it far more credit than I would
normally have.

1.) Seeing Yourself - This is the first time travel movie that I've
seen where in the instance of someone seeing there physical self in the
past can cause a fault in time where both individuals disappear, like
they cancel each other out or something. 

2.) Time Travel and Power - Unlike most time travel movies where the
possibilities seem limitless with the machine, the one in Project
Almanac requires mass amounts of power to be able to work. Not unlike
the DeLorean in Back to the Future. However in Project Almanac, they
can't instantly travel back in time 1,000 years. In fact the furthest
they are ever able to go back is 10 years. That's what really made me
appreciate this film the most I think. That even time travel has its
limits, and even when they work out the algorithms, they can only go
back so far, successfully. 

3.) Full Circle - I loved how they brought everything full circle at
the end of the film. I was quite happy with how they ended it, I had so
many questions, but that's what made it so much fun. Not every single
thing needs to be answered, some things can be left for the viewer to
figure out. 

4.) The Budget - One thing you have to remember going into this movie
is that it's not a $75 million film, it's a film with a modest to low
budget. Given what they had to work with, I was thoroughly impressed
with most of the visuals during the time traveling scenes, not bad at
all.
