
I love Elizabeth Banks. She's one of my favorite comedic actresses and
I was happy to see that she got a starring role in a comedy. Well
technically she was a lead in Zack & Miri but in this movie it's all
about The Elizabeth Banks Show. Literally. She plays a news reporter
who spends a night out with friends, gets a little too drunk, goes home
with some guy, then the next morning when she leaves to go to work she
realizes that she left her phone in the apartment, finds out her car
was towed, and of course that she left her purse in the car. So
basically it's a walk of shame since everything goes horribly wrong for
her and she has to get to work on time because some news execs are
looking at her for a promotion or something. Let me just say I did not
laugh once throughout this movie. I chuckled at a couple parts sure,
but it was at stupid things like Bill Burr as a policeman telling a guy
to drop his cookies, or Bill Burr calling a kid an asshole. Burr gets
all of the good lines in the script basically - him and Kevin Nealon
who barely gets 5 minutes of screen time.

Seriously, this is bottom-of-the-barrel humor. It's basically "hey look
at that girl, she's totally hopeless and a lot of sh*t is happening to
her." But yeah, that's not funny, and after a while you just start to
feel bad for her. I mean, everyone in this movie is SO stupid. The
police in this film are probably the dumbest in any movie ever, and
they're usually pretty stupid in movies so that's saying something. I
know it's a nitpick but holy crap there are so many things wrong with
this movie. It's borderline offensive at times, like everyone thinks
she's a hooker because she's wearing a dress and no matter how many
times she denies it they still treat her like one. It's just
uncomfortable to watch. And the dialogue is horrendous. Whoever wrote
this movie needs to be arrested because it is just mind-numbingly
awful. Some scenes left me like "wait... what was the joke? was that
really it?" Every character in this movie is incredibly stupid.
Frustratingly so. None of it is believable. Not one word coming out of
anyone's mouth holds any merit. It's a garbage script and this should
not have been green-lit. Seriously. Awful.

I have to give it a 2/10 for Elizabeth Banks. If nothing else, this
movie proved that Banks can carry a movie as a likable leading woman.
She was kind of typecast as the trashy girl, but the hot sexy kind of
trashy, but still trashy. But here she's a good girl with a good job
who gets dragged out to a bar with her friends and things just go
wrong. She's a great actress and she's the only reason I kept watching
this movie. She is gorgeous. She glows on screen, literally. She's in a
bright yellow dress. She does what she can with the script but there's
just nothing for her to do. It just isn't funny, and it's not her fault
at all, or any of the cast for that matter. There are so many funny
people in the supporting cast whose talent is wasted here. And James
Marsden, what are you doing man? It's a filler character, a generic
romcom lead, but with a lot less screen time. Everything in this movie
has been done before, all of it is generic, all of it is filler, none
of it should've been put on screen.

This movie made me feel bad for Elizabeth Banks, and I hope she scores
a good script that can actually put her comedic talent to use. This was
just a disaster. Horrendous film. The writers need to take a walk of
shame right out of Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
With the slew of "get drunk, end up in bad situation" movies that have
flooded the industry, it was hard to get excited for this movie. I
enjoy Elizabeth Banks and the trailers did seem funny. I just couldn't
help but have that feeling of "been there done that". And that feeling
is valid but it doesn't mean that the movie was bad, in fact, I quite
enjoyed it.

The plot plays out like any number of movies in the genre. Main
character gets drunk, wakes up in a bad situation and has to try and
retrace their steps to get from point A to point B (point B often being
supremely important). While the plot was predictable, it's what happens
between point A and point B that matters.

Despite the number of movies similar, the director was still able to
find some uniquely funny scenes to put Banks' character in. Some scenes
that come to mind are an impound lot and a crack house. While not all
scenes hit the mark, there was enough here to be worth a viewing. I
also found the running gag about Banks' characters profession to be
extremely funny.

So what make this seemingly mediocre film worth viewing? Two things in
my opinion. Firstly, this is the first movie of this type where I
actually felt for the character. I wanted her to get where she wanted
to go and that kept me involved in the movie. Secondly, I appreciate
the fact that we can have a movie like this without relying on
extremely rude and crude scenes. Yes, there is profanity and some
implied sex but in comparison to other films with similar plots
(Hangover), this movie is tame. But that doesn't mean it's not funny as
I feel it is able to remain funny throughout.

If you into movies like the Hangover, Hot Tub Time Machine, or
Bridesmaids, then this is a must watch. If you love comedies then this
is also a good bet. It may not end p being a movie you need to own but
you can do much much worse than giving this movie a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget every negative review you may have read. This is a delightful
film from start to finish. It's hilarious, first of all, and second of
all, it's about people you actually care about. What a refreshing
change!

With echoes of "The Out of Towners" and "After Hours," the movie works
mainly because of Elizabeth Banks's character. She's funny, she's
likable, she's sexy... what more could you want out of a screen
heroine?! 

The writing, for the most part, is realistic and smart. A
well-structured story full of unpredictable events and offbeat
characters. Full of surprises. Full of tiny details (like the plastic
center in a pizza delivery box... how many times have we dealt with
that... yet when has it ever been in a movie??)

But perhaps most importantly, the movie has heart. And taste. It goes
so far above and beyond what passes for comedy these days, it's
ridiculous. Farrelly Brothers, Apatow and especially Adam McKay --
watch and learn.

So if you want to see a well-written, well-directed, hilarious movie
with a great premise that will put a smile on your face for 95 minutes,
see "Walk of Shame." I have absolutely no shame in admitting I loved
it.

(And normally I hate just about everything these days.)
<|_=00=_|>
Before watching this movie I didn't really know what to expect, I only
decided to watch it because of Elizabeth Banks; however I'm so glad
that I did! 

It is amazingly funny and entertaining. It's such an enjoyable watch
and sweet movie, full of LOL moments. 

People who criticize it for being what it is kind of confuse me, it's
obvious what it is from the advertisements, so why watch it if it's
just a 'silly and stupid' film?It is a lot more than that, it is clever
and witty with some excellent lines and references throughout. Even the
opening is hilarious. 

Ultimately, this is a hilarious film, which is a lot cleverer and
funnier than people seem to say. It does not receive the credit that it
deserves. 

It's definitely worth a watch. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I'm pretty
sure you will too, if you accept it for what it is, an extremely
clever, witty and funny film with a great lead actress. 

Be well ;)
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I have to say it is so hard to write a review on this site
, that being said this movie is awesome it is so young single life as I
remember..very funny. I would recommend it highly.. Reminded me of
younger days Love the acting I didn't know LA had a subway Just goes to
show ya the people you persive to be scary turn out to be the nicest
Not to say you shouldn't be careful Everyone especially women need to
carry a cell phone I would let my granddaughters see this with me Some
beautiful pictures of LA The whole thing just made me smile Xoxoxo
<|_=00=_|>
No matter what else is said.. the movie officially begins at the eleven
minute mark when she puts on that 'can't hardly describe it' yellow
dress. From that point on, it is the honest reason why you're staying
watching this movie. Overall the film is cute, and has a chuckle or two
(some scenes are in fact very funny).. but it's that dress sticking in
your mind keeps you watching. That and the perfect hair... that's
'wanna own up to it or not' is the essence of this film. You'll watch
all the rest, and not very long after will not easily remember any of
it. But should the vision of that dress come back to mind, it'll bring
back much more than you thought you'd ever recall.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie and I love E. Banks -- watching the DVD again and
again. What's wrong with the rest of you people? This is not a dumb
movie. Most of the celebrated box office success comedies are dumb
movies, IMHO, but not this one (which of course was a box office
failure). Yes, the movie is basically about watching Ms. Banks walk
around, but what a device. A+ for the idea.

This amuses me like nothing since AFTER HOURS (1985, 7.7) and REPO MAN
(1984, 6.9), and touches my heart in places (Pookie) like TANK GIRL
(1995, 5.2 cult classic). Oh yeah, people hated those movies at the
time, too. OK, it lacks the edge of those movies, but except for the
massage scene, it's a lot easier on the eyes.

BTW, if that yellow dress ever comes up for Hollywood prop auction, I'm
bidding on it, and if I win it, they can sell it for 100:1 ROI when I
die.
<|_=00=_|>
You know how it is: Strange things happen when you least expect them.
But this is of course more like a female (tweaked) version of Hangover.
The situations occurring here are a crude mix of what might have
happened to someone on many different nights. Elizabeth Banks is a good
sport, having to endure and go through a lot. If you want to see one,
there's also a message about strong women here (which is not a bad
thing at all, considering the stereotypes we get to see here).

Clichés and jokes may not always mix well, but the passion of the
actors involved (even if James Marsden is merely a bystander in this
one as are most of the other in the Banks show on display) do help the
movie to elevate above other comedies. Not much, but at least a little
bit. Obviously comedy/humor is not something that will be viewed the
same by everyone. Tastes are different and this might not be your movie
to watch
<|_=00=_|>
Walk of Shame belongs to the sub-genus of films which usurp the clichés
of the modern vulgar comedy and bring them a female treatment,
something which has worked well in some occasions (Bridesmaids, The To
Do List) and fatally failed in other ones (The Heat, Bad Teacher). Walk
of Shame is on some intermediate point, because the solid performances
compensate on some way a weak and unimaginative screenplay which loses
many opportunities to exploit the stereotypical "walk of shame"
situation. I would say that Walk of Shame is kinda like an adult
version of Adventures in Babysitting, because both films portray a
woman completely outside her element who must face the challenges of
the big city (and, as a "coincidence", these challenges also include
criminals, identity confusion and improvised songs). The whole cast
from Walk of Shame makes a competent work, but the film's strongest
point is Elizabeth Banks, who has been stealing scenes in an
uncountable number of films and TV series (specially, in Pitch Perfect,
30 Rock and Slither) for many years. Banks takes the maximum advantage
of the predictable situations and humorous clichés she's assigned,
proving that, yes, there are occasions in which a good actor can rescue
a mediocre screenplay to some point. Besides, she's well supported by
the rest of the cast: Gillian Jacobs is as enthusiastic and credible in
her role as she always is; James Marsden makes an adequate work as the
gallant; and Kevin Nealon, Ethan Suplee, Sarah Wright and Alphonso
McAuley make a good work in their brief roles. I don't know if the
humor from Walk of Shame exceeds the line of bad taste with some racist
and sexist jokes; I wouldn't have minded if they had been very good,
but they aren't, and they end up feeling like lazy attempts to bring an
audacious and subversive edge to a story which didn't need it. And,
talking about sexism, I have to mention how well Banks looks with the
yellow dress she wears in this movie; my apologies for pointing that
out, and I won't say more. So, Walk of Shame is a mediocre comedy which
kept me moderately entertained mainly because of the performances, and
I can give a slight recommendation to it because of that.
<|_=00=_|>
I read a lot of mixed reviews with a lot of "hated it" and some
awesome... to more accurately rate this you need to understand the
audience and their preconceived notions.... this is a move that is
unlikely to find its way in your heart if you live in middle America or
a sheltered suburban setting ... it is very much set in LA and very
understandable to people who live here for at least some time.

A lot of the fun in this movie comes from anticipating "what happens
next" or more appropriately when you scream at the screen "DO NOT GO IN
THERE" and she does it anyway.

The movie is pretty dry and routine UNTIL her friends show up and make
her put on one of her friends trashy yellow dress. In fact, the yellow
dress becomes almost a signature character in the movie. 

The movie describes or makes fun of many of the unusual characters who
make up the scene in downtown and west LA, get ladies of the evening, a
gross cabbie who can't speak English, a homeless woman, a massage
parlor in all its glory, Saturday fun and games with conservative Jews,
two lazy brain-dead cops, a stupid and lecherous traffic reporter, a
bureaucrat with no heart, 2 crack dealers, a crack-head, and the
madness that is the Santa Monica Freeway. After surviving all that, the
ending was sort of dry and probably the worst part.

I guarantee that if you have a sense of humor and are familiar with LA
you cannot help but laugh as the plot thickens. The movie gets a 9 cuz
only true great movies who drive our social conscience can get and
receive a 10 but it was 95 minutes of fun.
