
I left feeling that I had wasted two hours of my life, and I'm not the
type who watches pop features like Rocky XVII. I enjoy the art house
genre that this clearly belongs to. I don't know if this is a spoiler
alert or not, but if you're waiting for the moment when the loose ends
are all tied together in any coherent manner, you will be waiting in
vain. That said, Michael Keaton and the cast give wonderful if
sometimes overacted performances. You can see why critics like it -
it's not the pap that they are forced to view day in and day out
because it's their job to watch it. Professional critics, for their own
sanity, grasp at any opportunity to promote something different or
unusual. But just because it's good for them doesn't make it good for
us, the casual movie goer. Since this is a play within a movie that is
set in a theater, I got the feeling that there are inside jokes that
those in or familiar with the business (such as critics) will get but
which is over the heads the audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say I am shocked and how many bad reviews I have seen on this
site for this movie. It seems to me that the majority of moviegoers who
have chosen to review here are only capable of viewing a movie at face
value.

This movie is clearly a satirical look at Hollywood and the constant
need to remain relevant in the entertainment industry.

I will admit that the film does appear unnecessarily "artsy" in places,
but some Hollywood actors love being unnecessarily artsy as they think
it gives them depth.

That was the entire point of this film, for Hollywood to turn the
camera on itself and expose all of it's own crap.

What I took from this film is what I have always felt about Hollywood,
which is also what I love about it. Actors are inherently insecure,
which is why they choose to be in an industry where there is a need for
constant approval. The actors who are worth their salt risk everything
to entertain...us. For that they will forever have my respect.

Definitely worth watching and worthy of it's Best Picture Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>
A bunch of very good actors, all wasted in an indulgent pretentious
script, and even more indulgent and pretentious directing. the pseudo
arts use of a drum soundtrack, the long boring hand held tracking shot,
oh look i am doing all this in one take. the absolutely stupid plot,
that takes ages to go nowhere, a film where the film maker is saying
very loudly and in a very boring way, look how clever i am, why this
has been praised by critics is beyond me. Actually to be honest i have
now long given up on what critics say and write about a film. Virtually
critic on both sides of the Atlantic seem to have lost any sense of
what is good or bad. The amount of critically endorsed films that i
have thought to be not bad but very bad seems to be growing each year.
i have been a serious movie goer for some time now. i also have noticed
that after a year or so these lauded films seem to get reconsidered ,
where the original praise is vastly reduced.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst viewing 'Birdman', I spent the first hour of the film trying to
decipher my emotions and opinions towards it, what I was watching was a
weird, yet wonderful work of art. Truly though, 'Birdman' is a
technical masterpiece. Michael Keaton has generally been undermined as
an actor (despite a few notable roles as Batman or Beetlejuice) and has
instead faced Hollywood picking more acclaimed and popular actors,
'Birdman' however might just be his ticket to an Oscar nomination, and
possibly even a win, his performance is mesmerising. Alejandro González
Iñárritu has created a truly spectacular character study that arguably
features this year's strongest acting performances, alongside a well-
executed script, booming soundtrack and a monumental achievement with
cinematography from Emmanuel Lubezki in which he attempts a
Hitchcockian approach, reminiscent of 'Rope', and displays the story
through a seemingly single and unbroken sweeping shot. This is the true
definition of a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Ha! Where to start? 

First of all, I am not a professional critic but I do work in the
entertainment business. I am not motivated by politics or corporate
positioning and have no vested interest in this or other films
competing in the current marketplace. With that said, this is a
pretentious experiment that only daft art school students and guilty
"professional" critics can appreciate. Fans of the theater will find it
amusing for the first hour until it begins to feel like Ground Hog Day
meets All That Jazz, orchestrated by Paul Thomas Anderson's nails on a
chalkboard. 

Performances: Exactly what you would expect from talented actors but
the fun ends there.

Creativity: A one trick pony, think Hitchcock's Rope without the fun,
that will make you want to get the heck out of the "theater". Keep in
mind, you need to avoid seeing this if you get motion sickness. Cotton
mouth, here it comes! 

Execution: As an example of what can be done in and around a Broadway
theater, with a "single" take, it succeeds only as an experimental
museum piece. Even then, most folks would walk out before the end.

It's one of the most pointless, sluggish, and taxing experiences you
will have in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I know - it's "arty-farty" and if you don't appreciate the
ridiculously long takes then you are a Philistine.

I'm proud to be a Philistine.

I kept waiting for something to happen. It didn't.

I kept wondering: "how did they get the camera that was on the roof
looking up at the building at night, to then see it in daytime and then
slowly go down to the street and backwards through a metal grill and
through a window and then..." 

Sorry, where was I? Oh, yes, what was the plot again? Forget the plot.
just look at all the long takes and the arty-farty "actoring" going on.

Sometimes I just wish I could sue these people for wasting 2 hours of
my life.
<|_=00=_|>
"Birdman" is the latest overpraised and over-hyped "art" film by the
acclaimed director Alejandro González Iñárritu. Michael Keaton, who was
known for playing Batman in the late 80s and early 90s, is cast here as
Riggan Thomson, a washed-up Hollywood actor, once famous for playing a
superhero Birdman character in the movies, now making a comeback on
Broadway, acting in an adaptation of a Raymond Carver short story.

The entire film is shot as if it's one long take in a cinema verité
style. Perhaps the best thing about the film is the behind-the-scenes
peek at the technical aspects of a Broadway theater production.
Initially, the narrative takes the form of a black comedy in which
we're asked to laugh at the denizens of the theatrical world, all of
whom are depicted as deeply flawed.

Riggan's big fault is that he's deeply ashamed of "selling out" years
earlier when he took on his superhero role. But now, by attempting to
mount a "serious" Broadway play, he has a chance to redeem himself. But
his Birdman persona keeps appearing in the form of a disembodied voice
(and later hallucinations), telling him that he will fail. The idea
that there are those performers who believe that "art" is anathema to
commercial success, is mocked incessantly throughout the film, but we
get the joke early on, and eventually it becomes tiresome.

When the lead actor in the play is mysteriously knocked out by a
falling stage light, Riggan is desperate to find a replacement, since
previews are about to begin. At first the well known "method" actor,
Mike Shiner (Edward Norton), appears to be a godsend that will save the
show; but soon it becomes apparent that Mike is exceptionally unstable.
We're supposed to laugh at a character who gets drunk during his first
rehearsal and later attempts to rape one of the female actors while
they're on stage, lying on a bed, under the covers, before an audience
who misinterprets the scene as comic.

Later, in a bar, Mike puts Riggan down further by pointing out that the
napkin that was given to Riggan and signed by Raymond Carver, was given
to him in a bar while he, Carver, was drunk. Mike tells Riggan that
he's too untalented for Broadway and introduces him to Tabitha, the
vicious Times critic, who later tells Riggan that she'll never give him
a good review because anyone who sells out to Hollywood can never do
anything good in the "legitimate" theater. The negative Times critic is
just another example of the exaggerated caricatures sprinkled
throughout the film, which simply aren't funny (a more realistic
portrait of theater people should highlight both their positive and
negative attributes!).

Also in the mix is Riggan's daughter, Sam (Emma Stone), who has just
been released from rehab for drug abuse. Riggan receives a double dose
of humiliation: first when he is locked out of the theater in his
underwear and is forced to perform before the audience almost au
naturel and later when he discovers the slimy Mike, has had sex with
his daughter.

By the time we experience the "twist" of a "happy ending" at the
denouement, there's nothing left for the audience to laugh at, since
Mr. Iñárritu has smugly shot down all of his straw men caricatures.
Riggan "triumphs" first when he blows off his nose with a gun loaded
with live ammunition and Tabitha then gives him a favorable review,
dubbing the performance an exercise in "ultra-realism." His new
prosthetic nose appears to resemble Birdman's, and Iñárritu has Riggan
fly away, now self-actualized, having had a Broadway hit.

The whole idea that commercial success and "art" is mutually exclusive
is not borne out by reality. Even Riggan acknowledges that actors like
Robert Downey Jr. can be successful in both worlds. So basically
"Birdman" becomes a silly, "one-joke" idea, not based on reality nor
worth hammering down our throats, ad infinitum.
<|_=00=_|>
For me, a complete and total waste of money and time. My friend fell
asleep about 20 minutes into this self-indulgent piece of tripe. 

This movie strains so hard to make itself 'important' and
'groundbreaking' that it never stops to see that it has been done
before by Masters such as Woody Allen, Hitchcock and any late night
black/white '40s movie.

The 'plot' is as old as the hills. Man is successful but inwardly
unrewarded. He has also rejected his family in search of California
movie gold. So, he wants to redeem himself and try his hand at serious
theater. Throw in a disturbed and rehabbed daughter, a long-suffering
but understanding wife, and a producer pulling his hair out because the
'play' isn't a success and you've got all you need to know.

The rest is a montage of suspected hallucinations, maybe suicides "who
knows?" and you're left feeling empty, cheated and angry because you
know somebody's trying to be nouveau and special but simply missed it
completely by being too insider and artsy about the whole thing.

Do not waste your time. If you want to see what theater and Broadway
are all about and need a laugh, watch The Producers with Zero Mostel
instead. If you want deep, head scratching drama that goes nowhere, go
ahead, pay up and watch this nonsense.

And, I might add, Michael Keaton, to me, was trying too hard, had few
acting chops and it was embarrassing to watch him in this. He, like the
character he played, was trying way too hard.
<|_=00=_|>
There's always a slot for a movie every calendar year for the one film
that everyone praises but hardly anyone understands, likes, or comes
close to fathom why it receives such accolades. "Birdman" and its
entire cast and crew (with the exception of Keaton) have taken that
spot, dislodging "Boyhood" out of this position. Still, "Boyhood" had
Ethan and Arquette, which made it passable.

"Birdman" feels like an inside joke, and it never escapes that
categorization for it constantly repeats its wink wink attitude. It
keeps calling attention to how much it knows about the world of theater
and its actors, so full of insecurity, mental trauma, every possible
mental instability you can think of, and most importantly inmeasurable
amounts of egocentric devotion. It is always, not so subtly calling
attention to how hard it is to be a real actor, how much drama there
is, and how special those beings are.

Keaton plays an actor who wants to be taken seriously by giving
Broadway a try, and it's not an easy task because for starters, he
doesn't trust himself as being anything else but a long-gone matinée
idol, and this is in spite of his fans who keep jumping out of nowhere.
You'd think that'd keep his ego satisfied, but where would the film go
if there was no drama? So the four writers behind this mess keep piling
up the tragedies... an addicted daughter, a possibly cheating
girlfriend, who might or not be pregnant, a loving ex-wife who can't
stay away in spite of the "attack", a manager who seems to offer too
much support, a hateful critic, the local bar... I kept wondering when
the Thelma Ritter character was going to make an appearance to liven
things a little, but we did have an Eve Carrington type in there,
somehow modified to make it look fresh and more psychotic. I never
thought I would dislike anything Norton did, but this film managed to
make him and Watts totally useless, and these two have been formidable,
especially Watts in her last films. She's wonderful in "St. Vincent",
showing she's capable of delivering great performances, and to make us
feel even worse, there's that lesbian kiss, making me yearn for her
sublime turn in "Mulholland Drive".

So much is wrong with this film that it would take pages to express the
disatisfaction. The dialogue is borderline unbearable, making us wish
the fictitious "Birdman" strike them dead. These people can't stop
talking about their "problems" because if they didn't have them, their
lives would be even more boring. It's just plain unbelievable that all
actors carry that psychological weight. Are there any happy Broadway
types? Even Watts is not happy she finally made it?

Then there is the gratuitous nudity. There was something strange about
that preview, and it did hint at both something special and something
really wrong with the film. To be fair, had the film concentrated on
the Keaton character, it would have soared. This happens way too late
in the movie, and it's an incredible flight of the imagination, but the
road there is just mined with too many pretentious and incompetent
attempts at being "original". I haven't heard that many yawns and sighs
in one theater as I did this time. It's just an utter mess.

The subject of the theater and acting has been explored and shown with
fantastic results, classic performances, and most importantly with
superb examples of insight and drama. "All About Eve" and "All That
Jazz might be the best of those films, and I can recall O'Toole,
Finney, Weist, and a few other very talented actors and directors
showing that type of life can indeed be full of drama, wit, insecurity
and human comedy. "Birdman" only shows everything that can go wrong
with trying to pretend that you do know what is going on.

Finally, don't get me going on those long hand-held shots... There was
once a film about some criminals that was praised to heaven for
something similar, and that certainly didn't make it a better film. In
this case, it's supposed to be intimate; instead it's annoying,
intrusive, disturbing and just another example that along with the
interminable number of close ups, it only makes us feel extremely
nauseous.
<|_=00=_|>
Every once in a while, there comes a movie that really invigorates
someone with its performances, story, and direction. Birdman is one of
those films that just delivers on all forms to bring a unique
experience. While that sounds like over the top praise, I feel like
this film will be heralded as a classic as the years fly on by.

Good: I love the story for this film as it encompasses pretty much
everything that comes along with being in the entertainment world
whether it is Hollywood or Broadway. It talks about the plight former A
list actors have with trying to stay relevant, the over saturation of
superhero movies and how every major actor seems to be a part of one,
the battle between big budget movies against indie films, an actor's
need for either credibility or box office draw, and the infiltration of
Hollywood into Broadway among many other topics. It balances all of
these subjects with grace and it never feels disjointed. Add to that
the very meta and excellent performance by Michael Keaton, a hilarious
turn from Edward Norton, a career best for Emma Stone, a revelatory one
from Zach Galifianakis, and a great supporting cast helps makes the
beautiful chaos on screen work. Then there's the direction which is
marvelous how the movie seamlessly looks like it was shot in one take.
Fantastic editing involved along with beautiful cinematography with
some breathtaking shots. 

Overall, this is one fantastic dissection of the entertainment industry
without feeling pretentious and having a lot of fun doing it.
