
http://switchingreels.com/2014/01/28/sundance-review-whiplash/

Ever had a dream of being a great football player? A great dancer? A
great singer? A great musician? Our protagonist has a dream of being a
great drummer, a drummer that will be remembered forever. Maybe you are
still fighting for your dream. Maybe you have given up on greatness.
Greatness doesn't come easily, you need to practice at it. Andrew
practices until his hands bleed.

Andrew (Miles Teller) is 19-year old student at a music conservatory in
Manhattan. Terrence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) is a teacher at the
conservatory with a ruthlessly brutal teaching style. After picking
Andrew to play in the school band, he pushes Andrew to his limits in
order to realize his full potential, at the risk of his humanity.

I had a billiards teacher at one point in my life, who was close to
becoming a pro in his craft but a grease fire accident changed all
that. His perspective changed, to paraphrase, he realized he was
becoming an asshole. He became a teacher of pool instead of becoming a
pro player. Through him, I can understand what Terrence Fletcher was
trying to instill into Andrew. My teacher would push me a little bit.
When he gave me opportunities to show him up, "run the table now," he
would tell me, I failed. It's embarrassing when that happens but it's
also a learning tool because more work needs to be done. You can't get
by on talent alone but it certainly helps. On the other side of it, I
saw a little bit of my teacher in Andrew. Losing who you are to perfect
something you love. Good thing my teacher realized before it was too
late.

I lost myself in the story. It had something to say about not settling
and asking more of yourself. Two fantastic performances from Miles
Teller and J.K. Simmons. Perhaps it will push you to maybe pick up that
guitar again, put on your ballet shoes, or hit the gym to bulk up.
Whiplash is an incredibly powerful film. And after the final shot cuts
to black, the film will stick with you for days.

My expectations: Medium. I did not expect the film to be so powerful
for me. Expectations exceeded.

Recommendation: Cinema lovers and casual movie goers, I believe will
enjoy this film.

Re-watch value: I can watch this film again and I actually can't wait
until it hits distribution.

Memorable: I am still thinking about this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Taking the festival circuit by storm since its Sundance premiere in
January, Whiplash is starting to feel like the underdog that could go
far with its crowd-pleasing intensity. On the surface, it's a gritty
story about a brutal student-mentor relationship that oversteps
boundaries. Underneath, it's a piercing examination of the psyche of
unbridled ambition. Whiplash is a film that stops at nothing. As a
result, it's the best film I've seen in years, and I say that without
hesitation. This is a film that resonates on every single level and
every moment counts. If writer/director Damien Chazelle was striving
for greatness as much as his protagonist, then he has achieved it. 

Miles Teller, who's been steadily growing on me since The Spectacular
Now, stars as Andrew Neyman, a 19-year-old aspiring jazz drummer who's
pushed and inspired by the abuse and aspirations of his school band
leader Fletcher, played by the ferocious J.K. Simmons like we've never
seen him before. Chazelle has described the film as an origin story to
the jazz musicians of the golden age, and it thrives on the myths of
jazz heroes such as Charlie Parker. They're urgently looking for the
next Parker, in search of perfection. But with that comes a great
irony. The music genre is known as one for freedom of expression but
here the jazz is soulless and mechanical, and that clouds the ethical
judgment of the characters. Even so, Fletcher is a man who can tell if
you have the right tempo within a bar. Although most of the audience
for the film may not know much about music including myself, you get a
feel for what he's looking for and when someone's wrong even if you
don't know why. Simmons is as good as they say he is. He's a force of
nature, with a terrifying presence that incites the fear Bryan Cranston
achieved with the peak of his Walter White. But it's not a one-note
performance. Simmons is still subversive with moments of weakness,
insecurity, approachability, and he also sometimes brings in the
lightness he's known for in other roles with Jason Reitman, exec
producer here. 

Even though he's an unlikeable character with nothing nice to say, he's
still somewhat endearing and enigmatic, much like R. Lee Ermey's drill
sergeant in Full Metal Jacket. This demasculinisation through a barrage
of insults is a theme explored in Whiplash and it argues whether it's a
crime or an 'ends justifying the means' factor of life. It's not just a
music film, but also one that adapts to the elements of sports
training, war at boot camp and biopic genres with the way it frames its
elements. Fletcher is representative of the devil on our shoulders that
yells at us that we're not good enough and that symbolic idea resonates
deeply for me. His poisonous words are more a part of Andrew's psyche
than legitimate coaching techniques. What grabs me about the film is
its discussion on artistic perfection, and especially in these intimate
and rough sequences of practicing. What is objectively great in art?
When is it good enough, and why? It toes a fascinating line. That's why
drumming is such an interesting choice for the film to explore because
it's so instinctive. Drummers have to make decisions within a fraction
of a second and talent can only take you so far. The roaring beat in
Whiplash puts your heart in your throat. Teller's performance as Andrew
is terrific, one to match Simmons. 

Chazelle is committed on expressing the physicality of drumming and
Teller captures it exhaustively without feeling contrived. It's the
virtuosity of the writing that allows us into Andrew's head however.
It's a long road to the top, but the script makes the right decision to
allow him to revel in the little moments of success, but then to
immediately test him in surprising and involving ways. Each turn of the
story shapes his expectations and ambitions and then escalates it to
the right point. While the film is a gripping experience nonetheless,
in retrospect perhaps it is too bitingly cynical. It does suggest that
you have to be deprived of a meaningful relationship to achieve your
goals. It does appear to be very anti-positive reinforcement, but
perhaps it's merely a statement on the abundant sheltering that the
latest generation is enduring. Whiplash is refreshing to see, we all
know we wouldn't be resilient enough to take that kind of punishment so
it's cathartic to watch Andrew go through it all and see how far he'll
go. His frustration, regrets, fear and rage with himself cuts to the
core of the human condition as he's pushed further and further. 

The technical aspects of the film help it become so stimulating with
dizzying closeups tightly edited together and its the stark orange
tinted cinematography. It's thoroughly impressive that the film was
shot in only 19 days for them to get shots so immaculately timed and
performed with all those complicated movements. There's a refreshing
brevity to the film with its sharp atmosphere, but it's so rich in
emotion, psychological tension and personal subtext. It neither rushes
nor drags, on paper nor on screen. It really is a film that lingers in
your mind for days, nagging you, like Fletcher over your shoulder.
Maybe it'll continue to linger for weeks. I hope so too, especially for
Oscar voters. It seems that J.K. Simmons is building momentum to be a
lock for Best Supporting Actor at this point. However, Whiplash isn't
just a best of year film, nor best of decade. It approaches best of
all-time worthy with its identifiable themes of meticulous work ethics,
fulfilling aspirations, resilience of the soul, and knowing when to no
longer measure yourself to your mentor. I'll take this film with me for
a while as a screaming motivator.

10/10. Best film of the decade.

Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com/)
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing Damien Chazelle's Whiplash - a film the young up-and-
coming director wished to do for some time now - being so beautifully
realized and brought to life by everyone involved in the project, I was
glad and relieved, mainly because I have seen the short film, which was
pretty incredible.

I believe that among the most telling facts about a film's fortunes and
qualities, is the ability to broaden it's public, but in the same time
not forgetting that cinema is not all about commercial success and mass
audiences.Or with other words - a film that is not just eye candy and
booms and explosions, but also craft, soul, dedication and wits.

Those are some of the things not only the film itself possesses, but
the people behind it have in abundance as well.

The upcoming Miles Teller plays the young and dedicated student Andrew
Nieman, who has the drive, the ambition to succeed and to be great,
which is fine, as long as it doesn't derail your personal life.A lesson
the young drummer learns the hard way.

Blind ambition is the thing, that can describe our anti-hero of sorts,
Terrence Fletcher a.k.a the brilliant J.K. Simmons, who has a thing for
mindeffin' his students to the point of total physical and mental
exhaustion and even depression.But he does it for a reason, for the
sole purpose of finding the next big, even great, thing in jazz and in
music as a whole.The next prodigy, the next "Yardbird" Charlie Parker
that will be otherwise lost, if not being pushed to the very limit.

And boy, does J.K. Simmons nails it.Chazelle has done a masterful job
in casting the two leads in Teller and Simmons.Their respective acts
are full of purpose, full of tension and ultimately terrific.

Expect some awards going in the way of "Whiplash" and look out for
Simmons in the Oscars shortlist, that's how good he is in it.And in his
own words: "What a shame we wrapped it up in only 19 days".It must have
been really fun playing a part like Terrence Fletcher and Simmons
completely sold it.

As I said, the best movies are those, that reach out to the most
diverse and wide spectrum of audiences, not those, who can connect to a
massive number of people, who are representatives of only one specific
audience type.And Chazelle has achieved just that with "Whiplash" - a
precise, tension-building film, full of beautifully staged pieces and
above all else, a love towards music and the challenges it often
represents if you want to get to the very top.

The film ended in a big round of applause from the packed theater and I
am sure that will be the case a long time from now!

My grade: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
There is so many excellent great things to say about this film. To
start off I will say it may be slow and to different for some to enjoy
and so that I warn you. Now I will say that I can not express the idea
enough of how surprising this film is. Jk Simmons does an outstanding
performance as the highly unpredictable hair trigger tempered teacher
Fletcher, Miles Teller an actor who I've only seen in mediocre comedies
also shines in a breakthrough performance as the ambitious drummer
Andrew. The performance are outstanding and that's just the tip of the
iceberg.

My favorite thing about this film is how it has created it's own one of
a kind spot in the music genre of film, it's atmosphere is unlike any
other as well. The idea that this film is one of a kind can't be
stressed enough, I guarantee you cannot find another film out there
like this. This film expresses a shockingly high intensity for a music
film. I believe that Jk Simmons acting is what fueled a lot of the
intensity. When you watch this film even though it's pace will seem
slow to most it's intensity is impossible to miss. 

I can see how a lot of certain people may find this film hard to enjoy
but for me this film as slow as it is couldn't have been more intense.
The mere fact that a music film shows some strong intensity like this
one did is mind blowing to me. I don't know how many of you had this
same experience or something similar then you already know what I'm
talking about. I have a good feeling and I'm hopeful this film rakes in
some acting Oscars because this film deserves at least one. I haven't
read anything on this films page and I'm sure others have expressed
similar opinions and all I can say is listen and trust me. I'm praying
you enjoy this film and experience it's one of a kind intensity just as
I did. Thanks for reading my review and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this about 24 hours ago at the Best of Fest for Sundance, and
this last 24 hours I have done little but think about and marvel at
this film. I really had zero expectations going in, I heard the buzz
surrounding it in town, but knew very little about it as the film
began. I have yet to get the words that do my thoughts justice for this
movie but I am going to try. 

First everything about this film was stellar; casting, writing, acting,
directing, music and cinematography all came together to just tell an
incredible story. I want to say a bit more about a couple of these
aspects. 

Acting, first of all I don't know who impressed me more Miles Teller in
the lead as Andrew Nieman or JK Simmons playing Band teacher Terence
Fletcher. Both did so great that had either been a lesser actor they
would have been out shined by the other. Simmons' performance really
reminded me of Gunnery Sargent Hartman from Full Metal Jacket, except
rather than emotionally destroying and rebuilding marines he was doing
it to 18 year old kids. His character could have easily been cartoony
and 2 dimensional but Simmons gave him such depth that the whole film I
felt compassion for and even understood his motives, even before he
lays them out for Nieman in the third act. Two scenes bring you to the
core of this character and the line that has intrigued me for 24 hours
is "No words in the English language are more dangerous than 'good
job.'" (thus why I titled my review as such, sorry I couldn't resist).
Then on to Teller's performance, for a younger actor who I haven't seen
in much I must say he played his role like a seasoned actor. His
performance just wrapped me up and to find out he did much of the
drumming himself is insane. Whilst watching some of the intense scenes
I felt like I was watching him be executed, and other times it feels
like the fight in Rocky, you feel like you are just watching him get
demolished, except all of this is emotional rather than the easier
physical. Whether it is the discouragement, the socially awkwardness,
the single parent household, the internal conflict, the hubris, the
arrogance, and at times the mental torture that he put himself through,
all just blew me away. Teller reminded me of a much much more talented
John Cusack and had the charisma and electricity to connect to the
audience. 

The one other thing I must commend is the writing, so often you kind of
know where a movie is headed but this movie stayed very unpredictable
and just when you think for certain how a scene or sequence of scenes
will play out they take a hard left and keeps you off balance (in a
good way). It was so refreshing, a few times I thought the bow was on
the film but then something disrupts how "it should go or end". 

Sorry if I rambled, perhaps after thinking on it more I can get a more
focused review, needless to say this film is a must-see when it gets a
broad release. Great job to all involved and congrats on winning the
award at Sundance, you certainly earned it. 

One last thing if this gets attention in wide release this could see a
heightened interest in Jazz, this is certainly a film that can make
even the not-so musically inclined want to throw on a Jazz record and
just drown in it.
<|_=00=_|>
The good parts:

The movie is very sensitively filmed. The camera relentlessly explores
every bump on Teller's and Simmons's heads like a documentary about
Greek sculpture. It adds a lot to the feel of the movie in a
wonderfully subtle way.

Simmons and Teller (as the "Studio" band director and the, I guess,
protagonist young drummer) do a great job. Simmons in particular is
really the nexus of energy for the entire movie, and owns that role
with absolute precision.

The music, when it's actually music, is well-chosen and well-performed.

The terrible parts:

Simmons ("Fletcher") and Teller ("Andrew") are essentially the only
characters in the film. Andrew's dad and his not-really girlfriend are
secondary characters that serve to remind the audience what actual
humans are like. Andrew is an insufferable jerk, and Teller does an
amazing job of maintaining (mostly) a stone-faced, blankly insensitive
look throughout almost every tense moment of the film. Simmons's
Fletcher is a superb sadistic maniac. He's not "intense" or "volatile"
- he's a psychotic monster.

I'm debilitated as a reviewer because my son is a talented young
drummer, so I get to see good drumming all the time. The persistent
trope in the film of Andrew drumming until his hands bleed is wildly
unrealistic; that basically cannot happen if you're a drummer good
enough to get into a prestigious music school in the first place.
Everything else about Andrew at the fancy school, upon further
examination, is completely unreal. He basically never talks to the
other complete non-entities in the band. They're all like POWs, obeying
the maniac director unflinchingly (except when they fail, when they're
abused and ejected). My son (whose judgment I trust because he's also
obsessed, but not a jerk) described the silly drum "competition" as
"three people who can't drum doing shitty grind-core break beats". (To
be fair, he liked the movie. What can you do.)

So OK, the movie is an allegory, and not intended to be realistic. So
it's an allegory about how a sadist can really help a self-absorbed
jerk with some obsession get better at what they want to do? I can't
find any way to sympathize with that. I mean, who is that speaking to?

Finally, the actually appropriate and yet irritatingly obtrusive
product placement (pristine cymbal labels, super-clean Zildjian logo on
Andrew's stick bag, etc) got pretty hard to take by the (truly weird)
ending.

Go see this movie because everybody else thinks it's great, but if you
feel funny afterwards maybe this review will offer some comfort that
you're not alone.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was far better than the trailer made it look.

JK Simmons gave a stellar performance as a music teacher in the best
Jazz school, trying desperately to find and develop the next jazz
legend. From the moment he appears he demands the screen, literately.
There's a part in the flick were he just burst open the door putting a
halt on whatever is going, and makes it all about what he wants, which
sets the tone for the entire movie. One of the best antagonist I've
seen at the movies.

Miles Teller plays the protagonist, A first year Jazz student who wants
to be the next Jazz legend and is willing to go through the pain needed
to become just that. I've been a fan of Miles Teller for a while and
this movie just increase my fandom

It does not matter whether you are into jazz or not, this flick is
about and boy willing to kill himself to become the best and the man
willing to kill the boy so he can be the best. For anyone who has ever
been in that kind of pressure, weather it be at college or on the
playing field(I kid you not, watching these guys play Jazz played out
like I was watching a Football movie with Miles being the Quarterback
and JK being the coach) 

It was an emotion trill ride with a lot of ups and downs, and just when
you think the ride is over, we go for a second time around. 

Excellence!!
<|_=00=_|>
An unknown title, by an unknown director, starring an unknown lead,
what does that form? Only one of the best damn dramas of this century
to date. Inspiring, intense, reverent, Damien Chazelle's jazz-infused
drama is an incredibly complex character study that has newcomer Miles
Teller and veteran J.K. Simmons at the top of their game in this
brilliant effort, 'Whiplash' is arguably the most riveting and
sensational drama from 2014.

J.K. Simmons stars as antihero Terence Fletcher, a character we look at
as the opportunity of Andrew's success, but also we hate for his brutal
portrayal. From his profanity-clad embodiment of evil to the
ever-hopeful light at the end of the film, we go through stages of
loving, hating and even fearing him, a character who despite his
occasional moments of sympathy, cares solely about the outcome of his
orchestra, and shuns away anyone who tries to destroy that. Simmons's
performance is flawless and breathless, a truly resonant achievement,
and one of the most Oscar-deserving performances of recent years.

The gold and black colour palette, fast-paced editing, fluent and
claustrophobic cinematography - every single component adds a fresh
face to 21st century cinema and independent films as a whole, further
supporting my conclusion that indie films have overtaken blockbusters
for the provision of unique visions and entertainment. Chazelle's
effort pays off as he creates not only one of the greatest villains of
the 21st century in the form of Fletcher, but also one of the greatest
movies of the 21st century, if not of all time, through which he
rekindled the dying flame that is jazz.

The fusion of emotions throughout make this a film that thrusts the
audience into a world of obsession, dedication and confrontation, thus
ensuing a tale of inspiration, a man and his dreams of becoming a
"somebody", and to conclude, let's just note that final drum solo and
sense of rebellion Andrew feels, it is utter gold, truly perfect. This
movie is powerful, it is intense, it is unique, it is a stunning
masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>
this is played out as if the young musicians are in boot camp. the head
teacher is more vicious drill sergeant than music teacher. anyone who
has played an instrument will tell you, yes that practise is hard and
you have to be committed, but it is always enjoyable and fulfilling. no
one in this film seems to take pleasure in playing music. it is so
ludicrous, over the top and ultimately just plain corny. they spell out
what the film is about in very childish dialogue as if an audience
cannot pick up on what the teacher is trying to do. scene after scene
of bombastic emotional and physical brutality. any teacher teaching as
this sadist does would not last a week, let alone manage to impart any
kind of knowledge into his pupils. then we have the ending the kid
races against time, survives a head on car collision and still makes it
to the gig, (whereupon the teacher has change what they are going to
play just for spite, this is the kind of character he has been
throughout this one note film,) and then still manages that old cliché
of killing them dead with his boring drum solo. drumming is not about
speed its about making melody from skins. Overrated by critics who by
now really don't know what makes a good film
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The pursuit of greatness is not
always pretty. No matter if your dream is athletics, dancing, music or
some other; you can be sure hard work and sacrifice will be part of
your routine. You will likely have a mentor, teacher or coach whose job
is to cultivate your skills while pushing you to new limits. This film
questions whether the best approach is intimidation or society's
current preferred method of nurturing.

Miles Teller plays Andrew, a first year student at an elite Manhattan
music conservatory. Andrew dreams of being a great jazz drummer in the
vein of Buddy Rich. When offered a rare shot at the top ensemble,
Andrew quickly discovers the conductor is a breed unlike anything he
has ever encountered. The best movie comparison I can offer for JK
Simmons' portrayal of Terence Fletcher is R Lee Ermey's Drill
Instructor in Full Metal Jacket. This is no Mr Holland's Opus. Fletcher
bullies, intimidates, humiliates and uses every imaginable form of
verbal abuse to push his musicians, and especially young Andrew, to
reach for greater heights.

Andrew and Fletcher go head to head through the entire movie, with
Fletcher's mental torment turning this into a psychological thriller
... albeit with tremendous music. We witness Andrew shut out all pieces
of a personal life, and even take on some of Fletcher's less desirable
traits. Andrew's diner break-up with his girlfriend (Melissa Benoist)
is much shorter, but just as cold as the infamous opening scene in The
Social Network. At a small dinner party, Andrew loses some of the
sweetness he inherited from his dad (Paul Reiser), and unloads some
Fletcherisms on some unsuspecting family friends.

Writer/Director Damien Chazelle has turned his Sundance award-winning
short film into a fascinatingly brutal message movie that begs for
discussion and debate. The open-ended approach is brilliant, though I
found myself initially upset at the missing clean wrap that Hollywood
so often provides. What price greatness? Is comeuppance a reward? Are
mentors cruel to be kind? For the past few years, I have been
proclaiming that Miles Teller (The Spectacular Now) is the next John
Cusack. Perhaps that bar is too low. Teller just gets better with each
film. His relentless energy draws us in, and we find ourselves in his
corner ... even though this time, he's not the greatest guy himself.
Still, as strong as Teller is, the film is owned by JK Simmons. Most
think of him as the dad in Juno, or the ever-present insurance
spokesman on TV, but he previously flashed his bad side as the white
supremacist in "Oz". Even that, doesn't prepare us for Simmons'
powerhouse performance ... just enough humanity to heighten his
psychological torturing of musicians.

You should see this one for Simmons' performance. Or see it for the up
and coming Teller. Enjoy the terrific music, especially Duke
Ellington's "Caravan". See it for the talking points about teachers,
society and personal greatness. See it for any or all these reasons -
just don't tell director Damien Chazelle "good job".
