
I have never written a movie review in my life but I was so offended by
this movie I felt compelled to say something. I actually went into the
movie excited to see a genuine debate about God vs Science. I knew
there would of course be some Christian bias as there would be an
atheist bias if the movie was made by atheists. However, what this
movie turned out to be was a hypocritical piece of propaganda. I will
give the movie some credit for bringing up a few intelligent points for
the case for god but not enough to redeem it even a little.

If you are a Christian and are OK with this movie then I suggest you
re-watch it after reading this review. I will try not to be overly
negative but it will be hard for me. 

1st) Every character in this movie that was not Christian was either
portrayed as an idiot (the reporter), a terrible person (the
boyfriend), an abusive father (the Muslim), or a God hater (the atheist
professor). 

2nd) The atheists professor was apparently only atheist because he was
hurt over his mothers death and blamed God. While I will admit this is
probably the case for some atheists it is not the majority. Further,
being atheist does not mean you hate Christianity or would ever require
students to sign an agreement that "God is dead." Not to mention this
character is hit by a car at which point the Pastor in the movie runs
to him telling him this is his last chance to accept Jesus as his lord
and Savior. 

3rd) the LONE Muslim man in the movie is a control freak dad who ends
up slapping around his daughter when he finds out she is listening to
the bible on tape. I know plenty of Muslims that are very accepting
people and this portrayal only enforces stereotypes that are often
wildly inaccurate. 

4th) The movie makes a point that without God nothing matters and you
can't have morals and everything is permissible. It further implies
that without God there is no way to have hope in life. This notion is
extremely ignorant and one that any logical Christian would reject. 

5th) The movie ends with a list of court cases proclaiming them as
examples of this type of situation, but fails to give any detailed
information. I expect that upon further investigation of these cases I
will find them to be very very different. I will write in later once i
research them.

Overall, the movie is offensive to anyone thats not Christian and
should be offensive to those Christians who have valid arguments for
their faith. I do not wish to belittle anyones faith and do believe
logical and intelligent discussions can be had without degrading one
another. I am not an angry person and very rarely get worked up but by
the end of this movie I was almost in tears at how offended and upset I
was. Again, this is very uncharacteristic of me. I am not some but hurt
atheist in fact I am not really sure what I believe at this point in
time but I can guarantee you this movie only made me angry at the
Christians who made it and participated in its production. Growing up
in a church I have met many intelligent and insightful Christians who I
love dearly. This movie was so disgusting in its execution that I
almost asked the theater for a refund.
<|_=00=_|>
I was dragged to this "movie" by a Christian friend who keeps thinking
that I"ll finally come around to her religious way of thinking. Jeez,
it was worse that I expected. Atheists are portrayed as evil beings who
"hate god" and are determined to convert Christians. Actually, atheists
do not "hate" god; god is simply something they don't believe exists.
As to forcing their way of thinking on anyone, the movie has it
backwards. It's Christian zealots who demand that everyone think like
them. Most atheists - those that I know anyway - are happy to let
others believe as they wish as long as they don't force their "values"
on the rest of us. As to production values, etc., the film is pretty
basic. The lead actor over-emotes and the supporting cast of Kevin
Sorbo and Dean Cain look pretty silly. The plot is pretty much what
you'd think. Thoughtful friends shouldn't let friends see this piece of
propaganda: it has no basis in reality. As to Christians, knock
yourself out. Like Fox News, it's been produced to reinforce your
preconceptions without actually presenting another point of view in
anything resembling a thoughtful way.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Christian pastor and genuinely appreciate the efforts of those
who try to engage the culture in creative ways. However, someone needs
to say this. This movie isn't particularly good. Although it may offer
Christians some apologetic material, it will fail to engage the larger
culture in any meaningful way. The reason for this is simple. Most
Christians seem wholly unable to grasp the difference between
propaganda and art. Art is a powerful but subtle tool that draws people
in and causes them to question their assumptions without even realizing
it . Propaganda is a blunt force instrument for communicating dogma in
story form. Without any shadow of a doubt this film is more propaganda
than art, and thoughtful atheists will see it for what it is even if
Christians can't. Perhaps we need fewer Christians doing art and more
artists serving Christ. There haven't been any decent Christian films
since "The Passion of the Christ" and the "Chronicles of Narnia."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a Christian and just watched the movie last night. I have to tell
you that this is NOT a good movie, at all. The only thing that was good
about it was some of the acting and cinematography. The movie is so
stereotypical, one-sided, and offensive that it will push many away
from the gospel, which is not what any supposed Christian movie should
be doing. I've talked to many non-Christians who have watched this
film, and this is exactly what it's doing.

Here's why. Every, and I mean every single non-Christian in the movie
is an amoral, annoying, arrogant, jerk. Every single Christian (except
that annoying girlfriend) is a moral, righteous, considerate person.
Just because you are not a Christian doesn't mean you don't even have
BASIC morals, I mean c'mon. That is completely stereotypical and will
offend anyone who notices.

Regarding the Muslim family, that just disgusted me. They only show one
Muslim family, which so happens that the dad is an abusive father. This
will probably cause any Muslim watching the movie to immediately step
out in disgust. Sure, this may happen a lot in other countries and
maybe even sometimes in the U.S., but they shouldn't have shown the
only Muslim family in the entire movie as being abusive and
dysfunctional. That alienates any Muslim in the audience as being
dysfunctional. Way to love your neighbor, Mr. Director.

In relation to the debate, the kid did give some good, foundational,
basic points to support the existence of God in contrast to the
atheistic Big Bang Theory. BUT, you NEVER heard a rebuttal of equal
length or quality from the professor. If you watch any REAL debate done
by professionals, each gets their shot to prove their point. And
usually, both will bring up many very good points from each side of the
spectrum. Sometimes the atheist will win, sometimes the theist will
win. Depends on who's more prepared and logical. I, personally, am a
completely convinced young-earth Creationist, so no, I'm not biased
toward the professor. It just ticks me off that every time the
professor talks, you immediately want to hate him from the sarcastic
and arrogant tone he gives off while asking short, pithy, statements
that can easily be disproven or argued by any professional Theist. This
will alienate any Atheist in the room, and could, cause them to walk
out in disgust as well. I would, if I was an Atheist.

Next, they never tried to prove the existence of Jesus and the validity
of the Christian religion. But, they turned around and completely
dissed the Muslim religion with no validity to do so. They never even
attempted to argue that the Jesus of the Christian Bible was the
superior and only God, above Allah. Nope, they just mentioned God, as
in a Supreme Being not necessarily relating to any one religion. And
they expected you to already believe that Allah was a false god. What
if a Muslim comes into the audience wanting to see a movie proving the
existence of God in general?

Lastly, the entire premise was a bunch of bull anyway. NO professor of
that status would do that in a classroom. They would be stepping on
glass, and probably get kicked out of the entire school very shortly.
Most people are not atheists, most people are a mix of different
religions. There's something called, freedom of speech. If he's
violating that, he's out. And if, by some miracle, you do receive a
tyrannical, insane professor like THAT, you don't let yourself get
bullied like this kid did, and you don't just drop the class either. If
you are a Christian, first of all, you stand up to the professor and
read him your RIGHTS AS AN American CITIZEN. Voice your disgust to the
classroom before you leave and threaten the teacher as you walk out
telling him how you are going to bring this to the news and every board
room you can get your hands on so that he will be fired as soon as
possible because of his dictatorial unconstitutional leadership in the
classroom. The last thing you do is give into his demands, and then
JUST influence a little classroom of eighty people. With a professor
that insane, you could get on the freaking news and tell the entire
world the gospel. Why miss a chance like that? Think outside the box
people! Also, it ticked me off that the entire reason that the
professor was an Atheist was due to emotional, personal experience,
rather than logic. I mean seriously? A lot of Atheists choose their
viewpoints due to primarily logic and education rather than that their
mom died, or something bad happened to them causing them to hate God
and reject him by turning to Atheism. Once again, it is isolating
Atheists as being emotional wrecks not truly wanting to accept what
they know is true only because they HATE God. Which is a bunch of bull.
It completely disregards any atheistic comments as being grounded in
emotional problems, when many times they are grounded in what they call
LOGIC. However faulty that logic may be.

There are other points I could bring up, but I'm reaching my
word-limit. This movie is in one word: mindless. And not something true
Christians should be supporting. Now, once again, I am a reformed
Christian young- earth, protestant Creationist and five-point
Calvinist. I have argued with many atheists, agnostics, etc. and
watched countless hours of debates and read many books from both sides
of the spectrum and am totally convinced, due to LOGIC, not
blind-faith, that God exists, Jesus exists, is the only true God, and
that the Bible is infallible.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie begins with the premise that the 'atheist' Professor is such
as he has rejected God in anger over the death of his mother. This is
not an atheist, this is a Christian having a snit fit and rejecting his
religion of choice.

An atheist does not carry the debate if the Christian God is alive or
dead; we believe neither any more than we discuss Santa Claus. To
suppose that the atheist believes that there was a god, alive, dead or
just really drunk is just insulting.

If you're going to try to offend atheists, please be semi-accurate in
representing the MAIN character as one rather than falsely labeling
your own 'brother' as one.

I love a good propaganda movie like any other good Murican but come on.
<|_=00=_|>
You know when a movie made by Christians is about religion, it's going
to demonize secularism. It makes out that Morality is entirely
exclusive to Christianity and that without God, there is no point in
being moral, which is just ridiculous. It makes every non-Christian
look either evil or stupid, which is just insulting. It is just
propaganda, no way around it, it's trying to make Christianity look
perfect when it isn't and it's trying to make secularism and any other
religion look evil and immoral. It's almost like this movie was made
Christians who knew absolutely nothing about their own faith and of
other beliefs. It's a new low for cinema, it's upsetting to think that
this movie was allowed to be made.
<|_=00=_|>
There's so much wrong with this massively over the top movie, but the
worst is the title which should have been: "The Strawman's Not Dead".
No, I'm not an atheist of any flavor. Then what you may ask am I? Good
question, but nobody took the other position. As Ecclesiastes implies,
there's a time for gray, and a time for black and white.

I knew I was in trouble when I saw all the old people and young
families with school age children in the audience, the religious themed
previews, and someone in the credits listed as an expert on
apologetics. As I predicted elsewhere, deism or anything like it never
came up, and neither did anything like soft atheism. All the good guys
were Christians and all the bad guys were mean spirited, glib,
sarcastic and/or hard atheists.

The best line in the movie came when the kid asks the professor "If you
don't believe in God, how can you say he's dead", which drew smile from
me, but great laughter and applause from the crowd confirming my
earlier assessment about the bias of the packed audience this Friday
afternoon. It was the coup de grace from one strawman to another. The
ending after that, with all the implied miracles and the dying
conversion, was sickening.
<|_=00=_|>
This travesty of a movie movie is about a Christian named Josh Wheaton
who attends a philosophy class at his college/university. As we all
know, Christians are a significant minority in the United States
(sarcasm), so Josh is the only implied Christian out of all 80 students
in the class. The professor is a ridiculously exaggerated atheist and
forces all of his students to write on a piece of paper "God is Dead"
with a signature beneath it; because, you know, that's totally allowed
in schools and wouldn't result in immediate punishment.

Of course, Josh, being the only devout Christian (as far as we're
aware) out of all 80 students in the classroom and every single class
the professor has ever taught before, is the only one to say he won't
do it. The professor then says he will be forced to debate and prove
God is real and that he's "not dead." Of course, the movie seems to not
understand the word debate as Josh is the only one to actually argue
anything, while the professor doesn't do more than one or two snarky
rebuttals; so really, it's more like "I'll give you the chance to argue
everything while I do nothing to deliver an argument against it."

Meanwhile, we follow several other stories; most significantly, that of
a Muslim girl who is violently abused by her father when she wants to
convert to being a Christian, which sends a horrible message and
stereotype about Muslims in addition to atheists. We also follow a
vegan atheist (trying to aim for the most liberal characters possible?)
who finds out she has cancer and ends up following Christ in the end,
surprisingly (not). Intertwined with this is her laughably
mean-spirited and rude atheist lawyer boyfriend, who, when finding out
about her cancer, says in hilariously evil fashion "Couldn't this wait
until tomorrow?" which drew a plethora of shocked gasps throughout the
crowd as well. This character in particular was exaggerated to such a
point that it made me sick.

The funniest thing about those other stories is that they serve
literally no purpose whatsoever other than to show that everyone who
isn't a Christian is an incredibly angry, mean, or otherwise confused
person. They contribute nothing to the plot at all besides filler for
the spaces in between the "main event" that is Josh arguing in favor of
God.

Speaking of useless to the plot, there is also a few parts of the movie
the movie that are just random where a black man who sounds like he's a
Caribbean native and the Reverend at Josh's church stand around a
parking lot for two days and deliver some unfunny commentary about how
loving God is and how every rental car they get doesn't drive. I
couldn't really understand anything this did to help carry the story
along besides, again, acting as filler for breaks in-between the actual
plot line.

In the end Josh begins yelling at his professor random lines that
completely bypass everything he said in his arguments before (the most
random one was "science supports his existence, you know the truth!"
despite nothing before that point saying anything like that) and it
turns out that the only reason the professor is atheist is because he
lost his mom when he was a kid, implying the only reason atheists don't
believe is because they lost something in their lives.

Of course, that part doesn't make any sense because the atheist lawyer
actually talks to his dementia-stricken mother soon after this scene
bringing up how he's so rich and successful despite the fact that he's
an atheist and she's a poor old women with a mental deficiency despite
the fact that she is a devout Christian. So basically, we have one side
saying atheists are atheists because they are just angry or sad to
appease Christians that they don't actually believe for realistic
reasons, and then we have the atheist lawyer go completely against this
point just to remind everyone that atheists are horrible people.

So, after he was yelled at by Josh, Professor Radison reads a letter
from his mother talking about how much she loved him and how she wanted
him to be a good follower of God. After this Radison rushes to a
concert where his Christian girlfriend is to get her back. All of this
makes us assume he reconsidered his faith and has become a Christian
again. Or not, because on the way he is hit by a car.

The Reverend sees him get hit and, without ever knowing or meeting this
character, instead of screaming for help, getting paramedics, calling
911, anything, they begin talking to him about his faith in Jesus. Yes,
folks, I'm serious. The Reverend says it's a miracle the professor
wasn't killed instantly! Of course, the professor dies anyway so really
he ended up dying painfully and slowly, while also being forced to
admit out loud to having faith in Jesus before his death.

This almost made me leave the theatre in disgust. What makes the
situation even worse is that no one cared! The Reverend and his friend
were joking about how he's in heaven now anyway! Not to mention half
the theatre had laughed at him being hit by a car. It was sickening and
disturbing that someone's death in the movie was simply shrugged at
because he was an atheist and had repented in the end so it didn't
matter anyway.

In the end, if I were to ignore all of the awful stereotypes,
disgusting pieces of Christian propaganda, and in general just
insulting content, the movie would still be a 5/10 at best. The acting
was weak, half of the film had zero to do with the main plot, and the
main plot itself was hardly even compelling and completely unrealistic
anyway. Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
My first thoughts after walking out of the theater were absolute
horror, disgust, abhorrence, and sadness. The film turned what could
possibly have been a good idea -- an atheist professor debating the
existence of God with a Christian student -- and made sure to destroy
ANY sort of message that could have been gained.

Let's talk about the OBVIOUS and TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE stereotypes
presented by the film. We have a lone Muslim character who beats his
daughter, an atheist professor who just happens to be the biggest
narcissist this side of the Mississippi, an idiotic reporter, the idea
that all atheists chose their lifestyle because deep down they hate
God, and even more nonsense that I can't fit in this post.

I'll sum up the entire film for those of you who haven't seen it yet:
An atheist professor makes his class declare that "God Is Dead" (which
is extremely un- professor-like in this day and age, so there's that),
and the lone Christian student in his class spends the entire film
convincing him that God exists. Then we find out that his professor
isn't actually an atheist, he's just mad at God for not saving his wife
(or mother? I've already repressed most of this film).

The entire movie is just one giant atheist bash. Zero minds will be
changed, and the rest of the world has yet ANOTHER reason to point and
label Christianity as a giant pool of judgment and bigotry.

What makes me sad is the fact that this film is far exceeding the box
office gains they'd projected to make, which means we'll be seeing even
MORE terrible Christian films coming out that continue to preach to the
choir and give the world more reason to turn away from the Church.

I can't be the only one sick and tired of this. We haven't had a decent
film about the Christian faith since Charlton Heston portrayed Moses in
The Ten Commandments. I feel like unless we have serious discussions
about the future of Christian film, and boycott these terrible attempts
at shaming people into Christianity, then Christian films will continue
falling towards this downward spiral into obscurity.

I feel like I'm going crazy as I read yet another "glowing review"
praising trash films such as this one, while giving no good reason for
a decent filmmaker to put out a solid Christian movie. If that day
comes, I'll die a happy man, but until then, can we please stop
encouraging this?
<|_=00=_|>
The four words in the summary line express everything you need to know
about this movie. It is boring, idiotic, and a blatant attempt to
vilify free-thinkers while shamelessly promoting an biased Christian
world-view. In the movie, the college professor is portrayed as the
educated, elitist, atheist snob who tries to force his anti-god
opinions on his students. The "poor, kind, Christian" is left to defend
himself and prove his beliefs or suffer the consequences. In the real
world most Americans live in, it is quite the opposite. It is the
Christians who try to force their agenda on everyone, while the
educators scratch their heads in amazement at the blind zealotry of the
mindless religious masses who would chose ignorance over education.
Don't waste your money on this garbage. Not to mention the crappy
scipt, terrible acting, and predictable plot. There is not one
redeeming thing about this film. It was so bad that I actually asked
for my money back!
