
Get Hard was a film I really wasn't expecting to like much, but it was
significantly funnier than I expected it to be. Will Ferrell's films
have had a tendency to be a bit like Russian Roulette as of late, but
this one is fortunately one with no bullet in the chamber. Ferrell
plays James, a market trader with (in some people's books) an idyllic
life: beautiful house, beautiful fiancée (the boss's daughter) and more
money that Trump could shake a stick at.

But the idyll is shattered when he is arrested and then convicted of
corruption on a massive scale. Wanting to set a public example , the
judge sentences him to the delights of San Quentin and James has 30
days to "Get Hard" before being thrown to the mercy of the inmates.
Helping him in the task is Kevin Hart ("Ride Along") who, primarily for
reasons of personal financial gain, pretends to be much more 'street'
than he really is.

What I enjoyed about this film was the leisurely set up of character
and plot before the real comedy (the 'training') kicked in. This is
where Ferrell and Hart really work together well, and I thought Hart
was excellent in his role. Also good to see Craig T. Nelson
("Poltergeist", "Blades of Glory") back on the big screen as James's
boss.

There are few films where I have guffawed out loud so much at certain
points: some really good visual slapstick humour. However, the film
will be far from everyone's tastes, with some very close to the knuckle
jokes. In particular things come to a 'head', as it were, with some
mano-a-mano action between Ferrell and Matt Walsh ("VEEP", "Into the
Storm"), where the crudometer gets cranked up to "Farrelly". The film
is also let down by a weak ending and if there was a joke to be had in
the last line of the film, it completely flew over my head.

Recommended for some good belly laughs for the broad minded.

(If you enjoyed this review please see the graphical version at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to get future
reviews. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder if what the critics don't like about this movie is that it is
actually clever, funny and vulnerable. I am glad I resisted the critic
reviews and saw it. The performances by all actors are genuine. And of
course there is just enough physical comedy and absurdity to make it
silly in a good way. 

Don't listen to the crusty old curmudgeons its a fun movie to watch.
Some of the jokes are actually intelligent and you have to know a
little about what is going on economically and racially in the Country
to really get them. The only thing that I find puzzling is in every
movie that has biker gangs, they never seem to get them right. They
always portray them cartoony that was the only thing that I found
disinteresting and only because of aesthetics. 

Its a cute comedy. Don't be turned away by the crusty critics
<|_=00=_|>
Get Hard is a comedy starring two of the funniest actors out there
today, and having this duo of Kevin Hart and Will Ferrell you would
think would make for an extremely funny movie, unfortunately it doesn't
but it still had its fair share of good laughs. They had pretty good
chemistry and most if not all of the good funny moments came from the
interactions between the two of them. They played off the racial
stereotypes for pretty much the entire film and as the film went on it
got less funny and repetitive. The good moments of the film in terms of
the comedy came in the middle of the film, thats where you have
everyone introduced and the build up is over but you are also not yet
exhausted by the repetitive jokes. In terms of their performances,
there is nothing new here, it feels like they were both playing similar
characters that they have played many times before in their previous
films. But the characters did fit very well into the plot. 

The plot of the film was a little predictable, but at the same time i
wasn't bored of following the plot. It didn't feel like certain plot
points happened in order to get a few quick jokes in, everything flowed
pretty well and i was still interested in seeing what was going to
happen next. There is not much else i can say about this film, there is
nothing new to see here from Will or Kevin, but the film does provide
with some good jokes and an interesting plot that can get you through
the film fairly entertained. So i guess if you are a fan of either
member of this comedy duo then you will enjoy seeing them together in
this film. - 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Laughter is the best medicine & a comedy film essentially does that.
And 'Get Hard' is among those winning comedies, that despite its crude
humor & language, made me laugh hard! Its a fun watch.

'Get Hard' Synopsis: When millionaire James King is jailed for fraud
and bound for San Quentin, he turns to Darnell Lewis to prep him to go
behind bars.

'Get Hard' is consistently fun. Jay Martel, Ian Roberts & Etan Cohen's
Screenplay, though very crude, is hilarious & the camaraderie between
its protagonists, works massively. Though a bit lengthier than it
should have been, the Writing is mostly packed with good jokes &
sequences. Etan Cohen's Direction is decent. Cinematography is richly
done. Editing is slightly iffy. 

Performance-Wise: Its good to see both, Will Ferrell & Kevin Hart, at
their comedic best. Ferrell is no less than a treasure here as the
innocent under scrutiny, while Hart, as his guru, oozes tremendous
energy. And as a team, they both work superbly! Among others, the
ever-dependable Craig T. Nelson, leaves a mark.

On the whole, 'Get Hard' will make you laugh! Watch It!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great comedy with a lot of good racial humor, but it is for a
narrow audience. If you like racial humor, Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart
comedies, and bubble butts, you will love the movie. Although that is a
lot of if's and many people will find it too distant from their own
life experience to relate to the characters. The scenes are hardly
predictable and will definitely surprise if not shock you. Some scenes
may drag on for too long, but generally the movie flies by quickly. The
acting is good, but for the fans of Will Farrell and Kevin Hart. Also
make sure you are in a proper mood for watching an obscene comedy
because the jokes will not spare you!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge Kevin Hart fan every since his first mainstream comic stand
up (I'm a Grown Little Man). Enjoyed all of his movies especially The
Wedding Ringer. Watching the trailer for the first time, I was insanely
excited to see Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart working together! Finally I
got a Saturday night show tickets to watch it and the movie was rather
unique within its story in the beginning. Will Ferrell did what he does
best with his over the top comic role of a millionaire, smart but naive
character. Kevin Hart also did what he does best as a broke, vulnerable
but funny confident character. Soon you find out that you have seen
this before in buddy cop movies. Two very different personalities
(status and attitude) get together to accomplish a goal and become best
friends. It is a clichéd story which didn't live up to my expectations
but they did have humorous scenes which got me laughing and isn't that
the whole point? (Loved the transition where Ferrell's house turns from
a lavish villa to a prison!) Aside the clichéd story and excessive
sexual humor, I enjoyed Get Hard and the chemistry between the two lead
actors.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film thinking that it would be just a dumb comedy,
which I happen to love; however, the film exceeded my expectations. It
does have funny stupid humor, but there is also an unexpected
vulnerability in the two main characters.

Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart both portray good guys that are in bad
situations. Kevin Hart's character, Darnell, has his own business, but
bad credit and lack of savings keeps him and his family living in a
rough area. Will Ferrell's character, James, has it all--beautiful
fiancée, tons of money, lovely house. Sadly, James is framed for
embezzlement and is sentenced to 10 years in a maximum security prison.
Darnell, for a price, becomes James' tutor for prison life and hilarity
ensues.

Even more than hilarity, James and Darnell start to genuinely care for
each other. Their bromance is one for the books. The two actors have
great chemistry and an awesome height difference. I would totally watch
another movie with these two, especially if Will Ferrell does Capoeira
again.

I also give points for originality. I have seen a ton of movies in my
life, but none were someone gets tutored for prison. Plus, the tutorial
is so elaborate and well planned.

Based on chemistry, comedy, creativity, and Capoeira, I definitely
recommend this film!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not realistic at all, there are many plot holes and
impossible scenarios that you just have to get over. And once you get
over it, and just immerse yourself in the ridiculous-less that happens
when Will Farrell and Kevin Hart get together, it is just pure fun and
laughs the whole way through. "Get Hard" is about a stereotypical well
educated, over-privileged middle aged white man, James King, and his
friendship with Darnell, a well-to-do blue collar black guy trying to
save enough money to get a new house so his daughter can go to a better
school. James King is accused of fraud and sentenced to 10 years in San
Quentin, a hardcore maximum security prison. Fearing what will happen
to him in prison, King has one month to "Get Hard" so that he will be
able to survive his 10 year sentence.

What follow is absolutely hilarious. It's not your typical black vs.
white humour, there are a lot of creative elements to this film that
make it unique and fun to watch from start-to-finish.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I watched this movie because of Kevin Hart. It is a good movie, if
what you expect is just some laughters after a long week.

Hart shows his typical sense of humour in this movie, with the
exaggerated lines and body languages. It is fun, but I would expect a
little bit more from this famous comedian. I hadn't watched a movie
acted by Will Ferrell before, at least not that I recalled. But he is
definitely one of the reasons that you should watch this movie. He acts
a wise man in this movie but behaves like a fool when he is facing that
fact that he may not survive in jail, which freaks him out and shakes
like a baby. You would be amused when he learns to survive in jail and
amazed by the same guy when he realizes he should stand up for himself.

All in all, it is a hilarious movie. The reason that I didn't rate it
higher over 7 out of 10, is that the storyline may need more efforts.
If you are an audience who values the logic of story lines very much,
this movie may not be the best choice for you. If just for some
laughters, I guess you just find yourself a good movie to show and give
you what you want.
<|_=00=_|>
Which is the title the movie got in Germany (for a change it's not an
English title, but in German). Considering the comedy talent at hand, I
understand that some might be disappointed in this. But it's still
decent enough, even with some mediocre jokes thrown in there from time
to time. Not to mention the fact, that this is as predictable as it
gets (story wise that is).

Not sure if the jokes about homosexuality work most of the time either,
but you have to give/cut them some slack for trying (while not dumbing
them down too much). The word play is there (see title), which is
played out pretty nicely in one particular scene (turning point sort
of). Don't expect too much and you'll be entertained
