
A must see for those interested in the inner workings of a restaurant
kitchen and the world of high end chefs. Most people have no clue what
it is like to be at the top of the restaurant world or how difficult it
is to be in this type of a service profession. The intense pressure
they put on themselves to be "perfect". Is the movie a bit disjointed
along the way, yes but the acting is stellar and its worth it just to
see the food prep and get the overwhelming inside experience. Bradley
Cooper is fantastic! Very good supporting actors. Many of them are
unknowns. The kitchen scenes are the best. Watching the process and the
artistry is a unique peek behind the kitchen doors. Go see this one!!
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of movies out there where the leader of a team,
talented, strict and know-it-all, tries to discipline his group, in the
background of a match or a contest of some sort. Music, sports, army,
classes, even spelling contests and of course ...haute cuisine.

Common factor in all these movies: The leader ...yells a lot! And he is
mean to his pupils. And he doesn't forgive the tinniest of mistakes.
And he has enemies. Or rivals. And an old teacher who was mean to him
like he is now mean to them. And there is a purpose. A trophy. And a
love subject.

Pretty much this summarize Burnt too. So, the premise is not so
original but in the end it's all about the execution and the fun and
the interest.

Well, I think in this department 'Burnt' succeeds. The plot has some
clever twists. The pace of the film is right and there are some great
natural performances especially from the chameleon actress Sienna
Miller and the always serious Daniel "Nikki Lauda" Brühl.

You wont get any cuisine lessons with this movie though. I know this is
not the point, but other movies leave you with some knowledge and an
increased interest about the special craft. What is that haute cuisine
all about? We only get a glimpse of that. Something about 'Culinary
Orgasms' but we never get to understand what this could actually be.

Overall: Not boring. Good Pace. Miller's and Brühl's performances are
very good. Plus the movie itself is not ...fattening! (unless you eat a
lot of popcorn!) So, What else do you need?
<|_=00=_|>
Movies like burnt are so frustrating to watch and in cases like this,
the fault almost always lies with the director and / or meddling
producers. I am not 100% sure, but I believe that this script was on
the black list and even if it was not it probably was damn good to
attract the acting talent to such a project. The acting was well done
(no pun intended) and none of the actors mailed in their performance.
So why does the sum equal less than the parts?

In my reviews, I like to rate movies based on promise and delivery. The
trailer is the promise and the viewing experience is the delivery. And
I always try to give films the benefit of the doubt. Rating a movie a 1
or a 10, is not helpful to your fellow users.

When you decide to spend your valuable time and money on burnt, you
know you're not getting a big budget, special effects extravaganza or a
gripping whodunit. You want the movie to show you the inner workings of
a kitchen, the struggle and cut throat atmosphere of creating and
maintaining a top rated restaurant and some relationship drama that
feels possibe. Doesn't have to be good will hunting emotion, but enough
to keep us invested. The story and character motivations should never
be so illogical or vague as to distract the viewer.

Burnt is not a complete misfire. I enjoyed the scenes in the restaurant
kitchen, they were beautiful shots. And most of the scenes themselves
were well acted, Bradley seemed invested in the role. The role actors
also did an adequate job. The major problem was there was no real
tension. The stakes never seemed remotely high.

SMALL SPOILERS: Bradley's character had a vague back story about drug
abuse and wanting redemption, but he never seemed to really struggle.
He vanishes from the restaurant scene after burning out, and then,
after some self penance, he is able to finagle his way into running a
brand new restaurant and in no time at all wins a Michelin star? There
is some tension with the debt he owes, but you never feel worried
because he could always borrow the money from the super rich Maître d'.
And in the end his gorgeous ex waltzes in and pays it off?

You can tell as you watch the movie that there are some plot points
that were probably compelling in the screenplay, but unfortunately just
got lost in translation. I read that when the movie was edited, an
actor's entire role was edited out. Maybe that was why the movie seemed
kind of disjointed. Every genre of movie has fatal flaws. In niche
genres like this, you never want your movie to feel "like a day in the
life". It's a movie, give us some stakes. Burnt felt like I got a
behind the scenes peek at running a top restaurant. If I wanted that I
could watch a 30 minute Food Network show.

Final verdict: Bradley Coopers fans would enjoy. Otherwise, wait till
it comes out NetFlix and you're bored one rainy night.

This question probably makes more sense in the forum section, but I
find it an interesting parallel. Another food movie came out around the
same time called Chef. It was marketed more as a family drama / feel
good, subtle comedy. The main character also finds semi redemption by
falling back in love with cooking, by going back to the basics after
burning out. He also reconnects with his young son. I had the same
after taste watching that movie. Cool scenes involving food, but no
real stakes or unexpected turns. That movie, however, got stellar
reviews. Sometimes I just do not understand professional movie critics
at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Having worked in kitchens i found this incredibly realistic and
everything in this film stays true to the life of so many chefs abusing
substances and their passion controlling their lives. I'm not normally
a fan of Bradley Cooper, however i was amazed to see his acting talents
here and how true he was to a real chef. Definitely a game changer for
his career after being unimpressed with him in hangover or wedding
crashes.

If you have a passion for anything i think you'll like this film, it
simply displays every aspect of what people go through when they're
putting everything in their being into something, when it's all in, all
or nothing, life and death.

9/10. A must see for all food lovers.
<|_=00=_|>
Definitely worth seeing if you enjoy fine dining, haute cuisine, or are
simply a Bradley Cooper fan. Convincing performances by a great cast.
Cooper is brilliant and continues to reveal the depth of his talent. 

Burnt offers a unique perspective and behind the scenes peek into
professional kitchens, which I found fascinating and gave me a new
appreciation for the demands, artistry, and creative genius of great
chefs. 

The message on the need for professional counseling and support for
someone whose life has self-destructed through substance abuse was in
balance. Watching Cooper's character struggle to start anew while still
afraid to face his demons is a story line relevant to many. Excellent
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously kids are giving rates on IMDb, so јudge movie by it's IMDb
rating is ridiculous.

I personally hope that IMDb will hide its rating, or at last categorize
it somehow, because to be able to fully understand some movies you need
to fit the criteria, and in this movies case:

A. You are aged over 20 B. You tried to accomplish something in your
life C. You cooked at last 100 meals :) D. You are driven by passion in
your life

In my humble opinion, Bradly Cooper's acting is awesome, I didn't
really expect he can handle such complex personality well, but he
nailed it.

The plot and storyline are perfect. I rarely feel so motivated and
inspired after a movie. So, my thanks to the director, writers, actors
and producers for creating this movies!

Keep up the good work!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite some pretty bad reviews I think it's a pretty strong movie.
Especially for people who love to cook of like high-end dining, it's a
great movie. Burnt gives an excellent look in the world of high- end
dining and professional kitchens. Bradley Cooper puts on a good
performance and makes the experience very real. The evolution his
character makes may be a little predictable, but I think that's not a
bad thing. You should not underestimate the acting skills of Bradley
Cooper. The character is written for him in my opinion. Also the
character that's played by Daniel Brühl, Tony, is an interesting one
and I think that Daniel performs this role outstandingly. Tony is a
very proper and tight man, but his character evolves during the movie
into a very pleasant one. Brühl makes his character very real with the
accent and a particular way he moves in. The plot of the movie may be a
little predictable, but that's not a problem. I think all the roles are
filled in nicely and all of the characters make the story into a real
experience, not only about cooking but also about the difficult world
of a Michelin-star restaurant. Summarized I can say this movie is a
must-see for people who love cooking and things like that. It's not a
mind-blowing story, but in combination with some great acting it makes
the movie worth watching. An average of 6,7 is way to low for this
movie in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
A sorry excuse of a film. Awful writing, from the plot to the terrible
dialogs. There are so many goofs regarding what a real chef does in a
high class kitchen, that you could fill pages with them. Too many
inconsistencies, one after another. Examples: a two-star Michelin chef
does not "do everything" by himself, shouting constantly at all his
staff; he does not do the starters, the main courses AND dessert. There
are "sub-chefs" who specialize in different items.

The film is so full of Hollywood clichés... It's "one of Hollywood's
eight plots," set in a fancy kitchen environment: the plot reads like a
sports film about a failed college basketball coach, trying to make a
comeback. Such a waste of ingredients.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Burnt" (2015) is another very solid movie in so called "food movies"
like "Chef" (2014) - there aren't many of them, both loved them both.
They are very different actually. That said "Burnt" isn't just about
the creating of food, it is a about a very flawed character, who tries
to put together his life back on track as well as receiving a 3rd
Michelin star - which would make him a "Yoda" of chefs as one character
puts it.

"Burnt" is very well paced, and although it's editing might distract
someone (very quick cuts a la Michael Bay style), it fits very well
into showing what is happening in the kitchen while you are waiting for
your order. It's very nicely acted, especially by Sienna Miller who is
becoming one of hardest to recognize people in movies these days - she
is always looks and sounds different - she might pick up Oscar
nomination one day (not for this movie though).

Overall, "Burnt" is very good movie, and it has lots of action... in
the kitchen. If you like these kind of movies, you will probably enjoy
this picture as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was too, too, too. 

TOO over the top. Too melodramatic. Too forced. Too predictable. Too
blase. Never hit its mark.

Not much more I can think to say.

I wish there wasn't a requirement for 10 lines.

That's about the extent that I think of it. Would like to at least
share that much.

Other than too much, acting wasn't bad, Bradley Cooper's blue eyes were
fun to look at.

Even thought the girl, Lily, was too much. Too much hair! Too much of a
stereotype.
