
The trailer for Life After Beth had me so excited. The cast alone was a
treat. Dane DeHaan, John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon, Paul Reiser, Matthew
Grey Gubler and Aubry Plaza. For any offbeat comedy, that's a can't
miss. Even better for me was the film they were all in was a horror
comedy. The trailer came off like a rom-zom-com in the vein of Shaun of
the Dead. I was all on board. It took me forever to come across the
film but it didn't play out like I thought it would be. 

DeHaan stars as Zach the ex-boyfriend of the title character Beth
(Plaza) who is going through a rough time. Right before Beth's death,
she dumped him. He's not taking it well. His whole wardrobe is heaped
in black. He's avoiding his parents (Reiser and Cheryl Hines) and
alienated by his by the rules brother (Grey Gubler). He finds solace in
Beth's parents (Reilly and Shannon) who actually treat him more like a
son than his own parents. But when they stop contacting him he goes to
some extremes, borderline stalking, to find out why. He comes to find
out they have been hiding Beth. She's not dead but not alive either. 

What follows is some hilarity but mostly teenage angst and a weird
zombie apocalypse. This film is more a teenage drama comedy with lite
sprinkles of horror. It's seems that everyone isn't in on the gag. For
the most part everyone plays it straight. DeHaan the most, but he, like
the audience, is just trying to adjust to this very odd situation. It
works well for him as when craziness does ensue his reactions are
natural. He's just trying to make the best of a very new situation and
he gives off that he truly loves Beth. 

The best comedic moments are given to Reilly and Shannon who are
overjoyed their daughter has returned from the grave. And they will do
anything to keep that from getting out. Reilly has some great
one-liners especially when pitted against the straight act of DeHaan.
Sadly 20 minutes before the film ends something happens with his
character off screen and it just seems like the film loses what comic
edge it has. Grey Gubler gets one really funny scene when the zombies
start emerging in numbers. I felt like Reiser and Hines were kind of
wasted. Their one standout moment is a nice play on the dead returning
to where they use to live. Plaza downplays her normal snarky character
here. The best moments are when she goes full on zombie. She gets a
chance to channel her main character trait into some primal violence. 

The film isn't as funny nor as gory as I had expected. Thinking about a
zom-rom-com I thought maybe there would be a bit more gore and humor.
But it's most played as people just trying to deal with unexplained
situation. It felt like a drama more than anything. But there are some
nice plays on the been there done that zombie genre. I guess I over
hyped myself because the film I wanted wasn't the film I got. For any
fan of the genre the tweaks in the zombie myths are cool. DeHaan,
Reilly and Shannon hold the film together each getting a good laugh out
loud moment.
<|_=00=_|>
First time director Jeff Baena has made a film so dull and unwatchable
by the end of the movie where the usual end credit scene he can't even
fill a whole 90 minute movie he has to put DVD commentary at the end.
That is how you know how much he tried to drag a film to get a full 90
minute movie. Last years Warm Bodies was dull and uninteresting but
this takes it to the dumpster. It is the most dreadful film to sit
through I have seen this year. Boring unfunny and situations that are
meant to be either funny or life threatening where director Edgar
Wright did with something right like Shaun of the Dead and everything
that film succeed in this fails on all levels. The first fifth-teen
minutes of the film was OK but totally after that the film falls harder
than the time John C. Reilly gets drunk in almost all his movies. 

The real problem is having faith in Park & Recs big star Aubrey Plaza
still can't find a vehicle to take her to big movie stardom. Unlike
Chris Pratt you is Star-Lord. But never the less this is one film where
the actual danger is less worrying than to excited about. And she does
nothing for the screenplay to move along it is really as dead as the
zombies. All the actors are really trying there best to stay awake and
bring some joy charm anything to bring life in this awful film. Just a
waste of good actors giving nothing else to do except give awful lines
that don't mean anything to solve a story or provide any comical death
or even the worst it is just a bore. 

As for the zombie aspect is the worst because they like smooth Jazz and
attics. It just doesn't work like Warm Bodies. Zombies are for no other
reasons for them to eat people and for humans to kill them in horrific
ways but you never get that in this film. To me good zombie movies are
exactly that and this is one that does not provide anything useful or
even funny new or what it is trying to accomplish a spark or romance
between the two main characters and it is terrible.

I really wanted to like it but prepare yourself for one dull comedy,
thrill less horror film, and worst and romcom that fails on all level.
Also last the tone is all over the place there is supposed to be actual
threat for these people going through the zombie apocalypse that is
incredibly uninteresting.
<|_=00=_|>
Version: Grimm Up North festival screening

Actors: 7/10

Plot/script: 7/10

Photography/visual style: 7/10

Music/score: 7/10

Overall: 7/10

It's astonishing how broad the range can be even within a sub-genre of
films. Life After Beth is best described as a 'horror comedy', and yet
it is completely different to other horror comedies I saw on the very
same day.

The comedy comes from the situation, not the characters, who are played
pretty straight. Beth (Aubrey Plaza) comes back from the dead, forcing
her boyfriend Zach (Dane DeHaan) and parents (John C Reilly and Molly
Shannon) to confront their grief and the conflicted feelings they have
about her and their lives with her. Over the film, her behaviour
becomes more abnormal, and other undead appear, causing increasing
chaos.

The pacing and balance of the film are remarkably well managed. Plaza
does a great job with her performance, slowly showing increasing signs
of deterioration from ordinary teenage girl to mindless zombie, and
each other character's reaction to the bizarre situation is shown to be
ridiculous at one point or another. I note that director Jeff Baena's
main other contribution to film is co-writing the script for David O.
Russell's surreal comedy 'I Heart Huckabees', and I think he should
really be seen as a writer who has taken up directing.

Lots of ideas are explored through Life After Beth, such as grief and
the way our memories change as time passes. There is a little bit of
action and tension, but mainly this is a melancholic, thoughtful piece
which brings humour out of the behaviour of normal people in an
abnormal situation. It's a writer's film, and an actor's film, and I
found it rather touching as well as entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
this isn't one of the films id watch again,the film is about beth who
dies in a accident ,shortly after she comes back to life,the shock of
this happening has some funny moments with her boyfriend and parents of
beth but then it slips into the film been just as dead as beth,the
second half of the film seemed to get even more drab especially when
more dead people come to life out of the cemetery,i gave this a three
just for the first half of the film,,i was waiting for it to warm up
but turned out to be as cold as death itself,this could have been a
good film ,after seeing the trailer to this with a few crazy moments i
believed this was going to be a funny crazy film,but i quickly realised
that the few funny moments in the trailer were the few jokes i laughed
at in the movie with not much more laughs,unless your a very serious
fan of zombie/horror comedy i would give this a miss
<|_=00=_|>
A Jewish comedy - name actors from the Larry David show,
over-protective parents, self-conscious chatter, and a Nazi interlude
with charred bodies and an Eagle's Nest reference.

This is OK. It starts out low budget with no sense of purpose - a
student production about anguished lovers, with an ironic suburban
tone. The comedy is supposed to come from family relations, and I did
smile when the elderly zombies turned up at the parents' home. Apart
from that, the only amusement was the absurd sight of a zombie tumbling
down a hill with a kitchen oven strapped to her back. There is the
touching notion of the parents' devotion to their dead daughter, but it
doesn't really click.

It gets better as it goes on, but comedy horror is a tough sell. Zombie
stories need the suspense of survival, using tried and trusted tricks.
This one out-clevers itself by leaving the tricks too late.

The lead actress is beautiful, the male lead is a bit Adam's apple.
There is no score, but some of the music is interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
Life After Beth is a movie as confused as its main protagonist Zach
Orfman, a movie that can't decide whether it's a laugh out loud comedy,
a gross out dramedy or satirical runoff of the ever saturated zombie
filled marketplace and as a result of its genre confusion, Life After
Beth is a basket case of a film that at times becomes so bad you feel
sorry for all the talented members of the cast who obviously saw some
potential in this tale.

Dane DeHaan, John C. Reilly, Aubrey Plaza, Molly Shannon and Anna
Kendrick, it's a competent cast, Reilly alone is always a fine big
screen presence and DeHaan has over a few short years shown himself to
be one of the finest up and coming actors in the business, but no one
here comes out on top. DeHaan is annoying as grieving boyfriend Zach,
Reilly and Shannon get short changed with one note characters and the
toughest gig of all in the form of Beth played by Plaza couldn't have
been saved by any amount of great acting. Beth is such a strange and
unfulfilling character you begin to pity Plaza's plight and it's safe
to say she gives it her all in a committed performance that deserved a
better movie.

A huge chunk of Life After Beth's failings can be attributed to
director/writer Jeff Baena's failings to control the films tonal
shifts. At any one moment we will be asked to feel sympathy for lost
loves then the next moment something crazy will happen that either
feels totally out of place or just downright lame. The script fails to
zing, the pacing feels off and the overall product that has been placed
into completion feels far too close to a student movie than one would
care to see. It's a real shame that there are so many failings in this
picture as you do get the feeling that there is a good film here,
somewhere deep down amongst all the wannabe funnies or the romantic
sentiments that don't resonate.

Life After Beth is a strange event, from the outset you get the feeling
something just isn't right and as you get further and further into this
murky love story your vision becomes clear that this is just a lost
film that didn't have a solid enough identity to make it succeed. There
are some fine actors in here but they're lost in a short running time
that feels much longer than it is due to a lack of any sort of audience
engagement. A real non-event, Life After Beth is an out and out
misfire.

1 oven out of 5 

For more movie reviews and opinions check into -

www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, the zombie genre...Is there still anything we haven't seen before?
Life after Beth takes a swing at the RomZomCom sub-genre but it biggest
problem is that it isn't really anything. I suppose it's meant to be
funny but there's nothing really funny about it. It isn't dramatic
either or dark or creepy or anything. The trailer didn't seem to bad
(and looked rather funny, reminded me a bit of Fido) but the writers
don't seem to know what to do with the idea (a girl dies and returns as
a zombie but doesn't know it and everyone's trying to keep it a
secret). It won't be a big success because it doesn't appeal to anyone
in particular and won't be remembered as a classic or even a great
addition to the zombie genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say exactly what is the appeal of Aubrey Plaza, and yet when I
see her name attached to something it makes me want to see the movie.
Though I have to admit, with the way she explained the film on The
Daily Show, and the clip they showed with Dane DeHaan, Molly Shannon,
and John C. Reilly, I was really tempted to just skip this movie. If
just because, while DeHaan I think is a good actor, as well as Anna
Kendrick and Cheryl Hines who are in the film, seeing Molly Shannon or
John C. Reilly in a film is like seeing Eugene Levy or Denise Richards,
it automatically creates a red flag. Now, to find out whether the red
flag is deserved or not, read below.

Characters & Story

To clear her head, a young woman named Beth (Aubrey Plaza) decides to
go on a hike by herself; which unfortunately leads to her dying from a
snake bite. But after only being buried for a day or so, she returns
much to the delight of her parents Maury (John C. Reilly) and Geenie
(Molly Shannon). However, with her rising from the dead comes the fear
of what people may assume if they found out. Especially Beth's
boyfriend Zach (Dane DeHaan) who, after sharing their grief with him
getting shut out, is acting like a fool because he thinks he saw Beth
in their window. Leading to a story in which Maury is doing his best to
keep his daughter alive, and hidden, after her resurrection, despite
all signs pointing to her needing to be put back in the ground.

Praise

Though certainly not hilarious, the film does have its moments when it
will make you chuckle. For it has very goofy moments, like watching
Beth tumble down a hill with a stove on her back. But, outside of a few
laughs and giggles here and there, I don't think there is much else to
praise.

Criticism

If just because this film is not only bleh, but it lacks potential.
For, as noted in my The To Do List review, Aubrey Plaza has no business
being the star of a movie. A strong supporting character, like how
Melissa McCarthy was in Bridesmaids, yes, but the star? Absolutely not
because her off putting presence never rises above being like an
intriguing gimmick. Something which seems destined to make her that one
odd character which makes you go "What the hell?" whenever she appears
and says something. For, as of this point in her career, that is what
she is good at, and in the film she tries to be your everyday
girlfriend and she seems to be forcing herself so hard to seem
convincing as a regular old love interest, that it makes her off
putting demeanor rise to dangerous levels.

Then, on top of that, you have a cast and story which tries to mix
horror elements with odd comedic moments, which honestly rarely even
works for veterans of the Horror/Comedy sub-genre like Child's Play and
Nightmare on Elm Street when Robert Englund was Freddy. So imagine an
actor like DeHaan, who seems more made for dramas than comedies, being
mixed with comedians like Plaza, Shannon and Reilly who are the type of
comedians who really seem like they should never be within the first
3-4 names listed on a film. 

Overall: Skip It

The film isn't funny, it isn't scary, there is no thriller element, and
the overall production seems like someone's capstone project for their
Bachelor's in Film. Which is why I'm saying to skip this. For while,
despite what I'm writing, it doesn't make me think less of Plaza or
DeHaan for being involved, and how they performed, it just reinforces
how some of the actors in this movie have no business being the stars
of a movie. Maybe a TV show, but at this point in their careers they
don't have what it takes to command your attention, get you to laugh,
and send you home with a smile on your face.
<|_=00=_|>
The synopsis of this movie is what caught my interest, and the DVD
cover also brandished 'the best zom-rom-com since Shaun of the Dead'.
So I will say that the playing field for this movie was right there for
a home-run.

But the movie turned out to be just another mediocre zombie movie, and
I will say that "Warm Bodies" was much, much better than "Life After
Beth". So there is a comparison for you right there.

While "Life After Beth" started out alright, then director Jeff Baena
set up the scenario for more than he could handle, and t he movie just
fell to a heap of disappointing pieces.

There wasn't a single moment throughout the movie that made me laugh,
so for a comedy, then the movie failed to deliver. The movie was
adequate entertainment, don't get me wrong, but it hardly sustains more
than a single viewing.

The cast list was good though, and people were doing good jobs with
their given roles and characters.

"Life After Beth" was a mediocre movie that set out to accomplish more
than it could handle, and as such it scores a very mediocre five out of
ten stars from me.
<|_=00=_|>
In my opinion Dane DeHaan is an amazing actor. Even though I have vowed
to never see a found footage movie again, I did struggle through the
entirety of Chronicle which was to no one's surprise...a found footage
quality movie.

But then I saw DeHaan in Amazing Spiderman 2 where he successfully
helped the audience understand why he is so angry and why he has reason
to be a villain. So similarly, in this movie he conveys realism under
surealistic situations.

If zombies were real... this is how it would go down. I am trying to
understand why I loved this movie but it all comes down to one fact.
Real characters.

I keep mentioning again and again how some movies kill off characters
and sad music is playing and you are supposed to feel sad yet...you
feel nothing at all. And all the Hans Zimmer in the world wont make you
cry.

But then, there are movies whose plot revolves around a robot with
scissors for hands, or a kid that grows up after a wish, or a dude who
lost his volleyball in the ocean.

And this is a movie with real characters for whom you care. Realistic
dialogue, awesome situations. Truly a one of a kind movie. Neither a
horror nor a comedy flick...not even a romantic one.

Just a story of how it would go down with a little bit of silliness in
it.

Beth's parents are in denial about their daughter which is only
natural. Dehaan's reaction after finding out Beth is still alive and
how he goes temporarily insane and re falls in love with her. How Beth
loses touch with her humanity gradually and how a zombie uprising is
about to occur are all awesome elements.

I loved watching this movie. The cast is wonderful and Audrey Plaza
earns my respect as someone who is not afraid of destroying her image. 

I have reached a point in my life where I am bored as hell of watching
clichés and formulas. Every alien movie needs a "bomb" the mothership
ending. Every possession movie needs a girl acting silly and talking in
voices. Every zombie movie needs people barricading themselves in
malls. Every disaster movie needs explosions and footage of the Aiffel
tower and the Acropolis getting destroyed.

Not Von Trier's Melancholia that had a different approach to
destruction movies.

Nor Jeff Baena's Life After Beth that had a different approach to
zombie movies.

If you want the same old sith,a typical zombie movie ...go for Land of
the Dead [2005]. If you want a different approach...Life After Beth is
excellent.

I wish the audience was a little bit more supportive to movies like
this.

I know that a 9 score is reserved for super awesome movies that are
classics and that will stand the test of time, with awesome acting,
photography, story telling techniques, music and the whole package.

Regardless, I am going to give this movie a 9 because I loved watching
it and given the ridiculous material they had to work with (a dude in
love with a zombie) they did an excellent job.
