
With Taylor Sheridan as the writer and David MacKenzie at the helm, I
had high hopes for this movie. Both of their last respective projects
(Sheridan - Sicario, MacKenzie - Starred Up) were gritty, violent, and
engaging. All of those hold true for Hell or High Water.

The main characters, Chris Pine and Ben Foster turn in great
performances. Ben Foster plays the ex-con brother. And as usual, he
turns in what I think was the best performance of the movie. He has a
knack for playing a top notch supporting role, and often times gets
overlooked. Chris Pine also nails it as the more straight laced
brother. For a pretty boy of Hollywood, his portrayal is authentic.
Jeff Bridges also compliments these two well as the older, sort of
jaded officer. Both him and Foster even provide a good amount of
laughs, but neither overdo it.

The setting of the movie really sets it above others in the genre. I
would say this movie is more crime/drama or heist film than Western,
but it definitely has a Western vibe due to its northwest Texas
setting. The area has been hit hard by the recession, a failing farm
industry, and big oil. It all makes the recklessness and danger Foster
and Pine engage in that much more enjoyable, and even sort of
relatable. The audience can at least sympathize with them as they do
what they think is right. 

Overall, this film is well worth a watch. It can be put in a league
with more recent films like The Town, Drive, and The Place Beyond the
Pines.
<|_=00=_|>
In a summer (or should that be year or decade) of vapid sequels,
remakes, and overblown superhero catastrophes, who would have expected
an entertaining, intelligent, well-crafted, suspenseful, character-
driven, modern-day western with a brain. Riding on Taylor Sheridan's
razor-sharp script and David Mackenzie's nuanced direction, Jeff
Bridges, Chris Pine, and (especially) Ben Foster (along with everyone
else who appears on the screen) inhabit this film as wryly humorous,
heartfelt, vicious, painfully tragic, and realistic members of a
society reaping the fruits it has tragically sown. Best film so far
this year.
<|_=00=_|>
You need to see this movie. That could be this entire review, but I
think I should describe how amazing this film is. Unlike most summer
movies, the writing is fantastic, keeping me and the rest of the people
watching with me attached to the movie and its characters even when
they are just talking in a diner or something. Also unlike most other
summer movies, the movie does not attempt to create artificial tension
in the form of fast cuts or stupid action scenes, it creates tension in
the form of dialogue and sometimes in the form of brilliantly filmed
action. It should be noted that the cinematography in this film is
truly amazing. The cinematography captures the desolateness and sadness
of the area of West Texas that the movie is set in. There are also many
wide shots, which looked like they were filmed with drones which also
added to the beauty of the filming. The music also adds to the western
feel of this movie. The writing of this film is where it really shines.
The writing is captivating and it is so natural, for the area. The
banter between both pairs of characters (the brothers and the rangers)
is very entertaining in that you can almost feel their relationship and
the history of it. Also, I have to say, the writing for the side
characters, who are only in the film for their respective scenes is
even better. This is the first time I have ever cared about some random
waitress who is only in the film for 90 seconds because their writing
is masterful. Also, the acting is definitely some of the best I have
seen, Ben Foster and Jeff Bridges both really shine in the film because
of their stunning acting. The acting helps in that when Chris Pine and
Ben Foster are mid- heist you can really feel the stress when they get
into situations that one or both of them are not comfortable with. In
closing, this film has amazing writing, cinematography, acting, pacing,
everything. This film is just beautiful and you really need to see it,
like yesterday, it is easily the best film this year and a major
contender for Best Picture, Best Director, etc.
<|_=00=_|>
The American western seems to be slowly making a comeback in recent
years. With films such as The Rover, Slow West and True Grit there have
been some interesting and unique approaches to this old genre. Hell or
High Water fits right in with these mentioned films by containing a lot
of comedy, engaging characters, and no holds barred violence. 

Chris Pine and Ben Foster as the bank-robbing brothers share great
chemistry and draw sympathy from the audience with compelling
performances. Jeff Bridges stands out however as the hardened cop
tasked to track down the brothers. His racist slurs and aggravated man
persona works perfectly with his gravely, yet genuine voice and he
finds perfect timing in his comedic delivery. 

The music, done by Nick Cave is also perfect. After crafting one of the
greatest scores with Assassination of Jesse James, he gets pretty close
to that here with very foreboding and meditative music. Especially
right before the big showdown. 

And when it all goes down, the film will have you on the edge of your
seat. It doesn't hold anything back and people die out of nowhere. It's
very realistic and is worth the tension filed build up.

Hell or High Water is a surprisingly great American western. 

Hell or High Water (2016) Directed by: David Mackenzie Screenplay by:
Taylor Sheridan Starring: Jeff Bridges, Chris Pine, Ben Foster Run
Time: 1 hour 42 minutes
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Bridges and Chris Pine put on an acting clinic.

Bridges at 66 has enough swagger, 'tude and testosterone to be an
action figure.

Pine, always reliable as a A-lister, takes his craft to a whole new
level. He is as far from Captain Kirk as the earth is from the moon.
Superb work. And unforgettable.

The script is to die for. Intelligent to a degree that makes you wonder
aloud how the constant stream of B and C movies out of Hollywood ever
get funded. Solid from the first line of dialog to the last.

West Texas is the unbilled co-star. You feel like you are there.

One of the best releases of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
David Mackenzie's 'Hell or High Water' is A Terrific Movie, that turns
out to be an unexpected delight of the Summer. With underwhelming
superhero movies or reboots doing the rounds, this Heist/Crime
Motion-Picture offers a Solid Story, that is Sharply Written, Expertly
Directed & Very Strongly Acted. 

'Hell or High Water' Synopsis: A divorced dad and his ex-con brother
resort to a desperate scheme in order to save their family's farm in
West Texas.

'Hell or High Water' is a story of family & crime. You watch the 2
brothers rob banks, as they are tired of being poor & they indulge in
aggression. And then you have Two Texas Rangers, after them, because
they're wearing a uniform & they serve for the protection of the
people. Its the difference of dynamics between its characters that make
'Hell or High Water' a solid watch. I wan engrossed by the camaraderie
of the 4 characters, they are interesting to watch & hear. 

'Hell or High Water' is perfectly paced, as the narrative hits the nail
& culminates in a crisp 101-minutes. The film begins with a punch &
ends on the very same note. I was thoroughly engrossed by the story &
how well it progressed. Taylor Sheridan's Screenplay is Sharp. His
Writing is tops, allowing us to get into the story & have an
interesting experience. David Mackenzie's Direction is expertly done.
He's handled the film, with command. Giles Nuttgens' Cinematography is
fantastic. West Texas has been captured beautifully. Jake Roberts'
Editing is crisp. Art & Costume Design are perfect. Nick Cave & Warren
Ellis's Score is good. Action-Sequences are well-done, as well. 

Performance-Wise: 'Hell or High Water' is filled with superior
performances. Jeff Bridges steals the show as the senior Texas ranger,
who's sly sense of humor with his Indian partner (a fabulous Gil
Birmingham) & skill to put things together & get to the criminals, is
delightful. Bridges gets his character spot-on & proves once again,
that he's among the Greatest we've ever had. As the 2-brothers who go
on bank-robbing spree, Chris Pine & Ben Foster are in top-form. Pine is
a revelation, delivering a mature, restrained performance, while
Foster, an actor who's potential isn't new to know, continues to
astonish, with his enviable talent for playing unpredictable, unlikable
characters. Also, the on-screen chemistry between Pine & Foster,
appears real & affecting.

On the whole, 'Hell or High Water' is a Winner! Don't Miss It!
<|_=00=_|>
Look at Chris Pine trying to prove he's not just a pretty face doing
these small films that show his range, and show how he can do accents,
but seriously, Pine was totally in his element here.

Jeff bridges gave a great performance that matches his cowboy ethics in
True Grit, playing a very old school Texas Ranger hunting down Pine and
Ben Foster who play brothers robbing banks. A little in the Archie
Bunker Territory when dealing with his Mexican, Native American
partner, but all the way likable.

Ben Foster was fantastic as well,as the bad apple big brother looking
for redemption. Very dynamic acting, by all three main actors.

The music really adds to the cool western feel, putting me in the
cowboy mode. I thought it was interesting that they had one scene in
the movie in which real life cowboys herding cattle appear, in a movie
about the movie style cowboys, and it's some real cowboy stuff going on
here.

It's very macho without turning off the indi crowd that would love this
film. There's a scene in the movie when Jeff Daniels Character
confronts one of the bank robbers and it was like Eastwood and Wayne
back in the day, man. It just wraps up the whole vibe of the movie in
one swoop. I feel like it's the type of movie everyone in Texas should
love.

And it's very Texas (or rather what I expect from Texas): every dinner
only sells streak, It's hard to be a armed bank robber because at least
two people in the bank carry a gun. The film does use Texas as a
perfect pocket for all American life with the bank robbers having a
bigger agenda to save the land they own and secure a future for their
family, screwing over the bank that's screwing them.

It has the same appeal of the Timber when it comes to today's Westerns,
but it's setting in contemporary times but with that old fashion tone
gives it an edge.

http://cinemagardens.com/
<|_=00=_|>
'Hell or High Water' is a bit of an odd duck. Mainly because it got a
wide release. This is the only great film that has released in 2016
that got a wide release. I mean, there are only four or five films that
I thought have been really great and all of them have either got
basically no theater release or a limited viewing. I truly hope that
this spurs more films like it though. More well crafted movies that
actually have characters you can get invested in. There have been so
many films this year that have completely failed due to poor character
writing. Now, this film isn't perfect. So lets just get the negatives
out of the way before we get into what makes this great.

There aren't many problems here. The only big issue for me lies in the
films story. It's really not that good. Once you step back to examine
it, it's actually pretty by the numbers. If you've seen any heist movie
ever than you probably know where this film is going. It follows a very
standard formula that rarely deviates from it's by the numbers
approach.

But it wasn't until I took a step back that I noticed it. That's due to
how well executed it is. It's one of those films that's so finely
crafted that you don't really notice it's issues. That's what I loved
about the film. It has such great characters that the familiar beats it
hits actually feel genuine. Because you get to know these people and
you feel like their choices matter to what's happening on screen.

Which came as a breath of fresh air in a time when films have become so
predictable and convenient. Our three main characters are played by
Jeff Bridges, Chris Pine, and Ben Foster. Who were all at their very
best for this movie. Foster was the weakest of all but when acting
across from Bridges, is hard to really stand out. Yet, that is exactly
what Chris Pine does. I have never seen him give this kind of
performance.

I'm glad to see him taking on nuanced roles that legitimately show his
range. It felt almost like his performance in 'Z for Zachariah' but
he's far more compelling to watch here. Which really adds to his
character. He is the one that you have to feel for most. And his sad
yet determined personality really pushed you through the film.

On the other end, Ben fosters character introduced the most conflict to
the film. To avoid spoilers, I won't go into his character much but the
film respected him enough to not make him the bad guy. It's so easy to
make a character like that the films bad guy but he never becomes that
person. It respects its characters enough to make them humans with
problems instead of saying this guys the bad one and this guy is the
good one.

And it's all shot and directed with the utter most care and effort.
With nearly every shot you can feel the attention to detail and the
work put into making this the way it is. It may not be Alejandro
Inarritu levels of ingenuity but I loved seeing effort being put into
making the film. It's very rare to see great directing and inventive
cinematography in wide release films like this.

'Hell or High Water' is rare breed. It's a great film that got a wide
release. There is a lot of love and care put into this and it shows.
It's well shot, directed nicely, has a solid score, is brilliantly
acted, and offers excellent characters. This is definitely worth going
out and seeing. That being said, It falls just short of being amazing.
The story is pretty by the numbers and it's ending doesn't really seem
to know what it wants to do. However, it remains a great film and is
definitely worth supporting in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hell or High Water" (2016 release; 105 min.) brings the story of two
brothers, Toby and Tanner. As the movie opens, we see them rob two
Texas Midlands Bank branches in rapid succession. It's only later that
we learn why. After the second heist, the Texas Rangers are informed,
and Marcus, who is going to retire in three weeks, wants to do one
final case before going off into the sunset. At this point, we are 10
min. into the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your
viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all
plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from Scottish director
David Mackenzie, and here he brings to the big screen the outstanding
script by former actor Taylor Sheridan, who blew us away last year with
"Sicario", my No.1 movie of the year in 2015. Here the story focuses on
the two brothers, one a divorced dad and the other just released after
a 7 year prison stint. The brothers are played by Chris Pine (MILES
away from the recent Star Trek Beyond) and Ben Foster. But the best
performance comes from Jeff Bridges as good ol' Marcus, always short on
breath and "sitting on the porch, practicing my future", when his
partner asks him why he is sitting outside his hotel room. Bridges has
gotten many acclaims over his career, and I don't know that this one
tops them all, but it sure comes close. Add in the beautiful landscape
of the southwest (New Mexico standing in for Western Texas), plus a
gorgeous soundtrack fro Nick Cave and Warren Ellis, and it all comes
together like a perfect cocktail. I'm trying to think of any flaws in
this movie, but I can't think of any, hence my rating of 5 stars (which
I rarely give).

The movie opened this weekend at my local art-house theater here in
Cincinnati, and I couldn't wait to see it. The Friday early evening
screening where I saw this at was attended nicely, and I bet you with
outstanding word-of-mouth a guarantee, this movie will gain strength at
the box office in the weeks to come. Pretty sure this will pick up a
lot of attention come the awards season at the end of the year. "Hell
or High Water" is HIGHLY, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely the type of simple film that many might dismiss when
first hearing about it or seeing the promotional footage of it. What's
really surprising about it is the amount of emotional and dramatic
weight that it carries. It's not primarily interested in gun fights or
car chases. Instead, it's interested in exploring the dynamics of race
and culture, and in depicting everyone as flawed individuals who you
still feel empathy for. It gives you a portrayal of what poverty and
the economy can do, even when never attempting to justify the horrible
behavior on display or trying to make excuses for its characters. It's
filled with wonderful, thoughtful dialogue while also playing out like
a realistic morality tale. The three leads are also fantastic,
especially Ben Foster, who deserves to get more roles as the talented
character-actor he is. This is highly recommended.
