
Last time I watched the Ben-Hur with Charlton Heston the thought did
not cross my mind that perhaps the world needed another version of the
story directed by the guy who brought us Abraham Lincoln: Vampire
Hunter and that weird movie where they make bullets bend. 

Anyway, the Heston version is one of my favorite movies. I saw it when
I was 8 and two times when I was about 20. I love it and quote it all
the time. 

But this is not a review of that version because (surprise!) it is not
that version. This is a review of the 2016 version and I don't feel it
is fair to give this movie a bad rating simply because it was an
unnecessary remake. In case you are wondering, this is the sixth
version of Ben-Hur.

The story follows Judah Ben-Hur, a Jewish prince in Jerusalem at the
time of Christ, and his adopted Roman brother Massala. They love each
other but they get in the middle of an attempted assassination on a
Roman leader and wind up on opposing sides. They both feel they are in
the right, get in a very sticky situation, and thus begins an 5 year
journey of survival, revenge, forgiveness.

I liked the movie. The chariot race was thrilling. I was worried about
it because the trailer showed a scene which an obvious CGI horse
running through the stands. To my delight that was the only part that
really used a CGI horse (that I could tell, anyway). The rest of the
race was intense even though I already knew how it was going to end.

The movie focuses very heavily on the relationship between Massala and
Judah as well as Massala and the rest of the Hur family. Massala's
intentions and actions were understandable and he wasn't just some evil
man who betrayed his family.

The main actors and actresses do a good (not great) job. I felt Morgan
Freeman may have phoned it in a little, but he delivered one of my
favorite lines of the movie. My favorite actors were the slave drivers
on the galley along with the drummer. They have small roles but I loved
them.

I didn't care for the Jesus scenes though. He is a hard character to
portray, and I just didn't like it when he spoke. I'm probably picky,
but I would have preferred to hear him speak in King James English or
not at all (like in the Heston version). I just felt something was off
with the scenes and they could have been more powerful.

Overall, I felt it was a pretty good movie that succeeds in many
aspects chiefly with the themes of revenge/forgiveness and delivers one
exciting race. It's not perfect but a good movie overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood remakes. For every Ocean's 11, there's 10 Willy Wonkas. So
here we are saddled with another previously untouchable classic getting
a slickly made, soulless studio remake. But is it fair to judge it just
because it's a remake? Or does it succeed on its own merits? 

I love the William Wyler '59 original classic, and watch it often. The
quoteable lines are brilliant. "Your eyes are full of hate, 41. That's
good. Hate keeps a man alive". Charlton Heston is great as Ben Hur. And
that chariot race is one of the greatest action spectacles ever put on
the silver screen. 

I just can't envisage myself re- watching this. The effects are
impressive, but any tosspot on a computer can conjure up digitally
creative wowzers, so that is no selling point. And the action is
predictably impressive, but it's so stagnant, slick and with no
standout unforgettable moment. Jack Huston brings nothing new to the
role of Ben- Hur, and Morgan Freeman clearly has a new flat screen TV
to pay for, so he shows up to phone it in.

For the past 16 years we've seen sword & sandal epics go from fun genre
revival (Gladiator) to moribund cliché (Hercules, 300 Rise of the
Empire). In fact Rodrigo Santoro (Xerxes from 300) shows up as Jesus
Christ this time. From Persian tyrant to Jewish prophet, now that's an
improvement. 

I left the cinema knowing that I'll forget about this in 3 weeks.
Remakes can improve on the original (The Fly, The Thing, the '59
Ben-Hur is itself a remake of an early silent B&W version). But you
risk falling into trap of being so slavishly loyal to the original that
to redo the film becomes pointless (Pyscho). 

I can't recommend paying full cinema price. Stay at home and watch the
'59 original. On the small screen, Chuck Heston commands a stronger
presence than anyone in this large screen bore.
<|_=00=_|>
I have sympathy for younger audiences who will probably never
experience being mesmerized by a movie. As a 10-year-old in 1959,
'Ben-Hur' was an experience on the movie screen.

Faith-based movies are made by cash grabbers who know they have a
market. At 100 million, it appears most of the money and time was put
into CGI effects. Both the galley ship war and the chariot race were
very well done. But the rest of the film displays some of the worse
casting, screenplay, and directing that I've ever seen. The music score
is uninspired.

Word is out that this film does better at centering around Christ.
Non-sense. Jesus is presented in the new film almost as a cliché. To
reveal Christ, the 1959 offering utilized subtle visual concepts to
suggest Jesus' divinity. This in keeping with the novel's and the 1959
rendition's title: 'Ben-Hur; A Tale of the Christ'. 

The ending is so profoundly adolescent that it is embarrassing.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, maybe its worth a 4 . 4,5 if I had lots to drink, got a raise
and was married to a Billionaire. Honestly, this is some of the worst
that has come out of the worst. The start sequence just makes you want
to leave the Theater right away, burn it to the ground and never come
back. Its like a cheap TV show with bad lines and people who cant take
a "punch". The best way to describe it is "Hercules meets Robin Hood"
and had it been a TV show, lots would have been forgiven because most
TV shows seldom has the budget or the actors to do make historical
drama's stand out. But if you really want to make a "follow up" on an
eternal historic movie like the original 1959 Ben-Hur, you better make
it count, but this fails on all levels. Its just terrible and Im sure
that Charlton Heston is turning in his grave. May Director Timur
Bekmambetov be ashamed of himself
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the original Ben-Hur and liked it very much, this time I was
very excited going to the theater hoping for at least a 7 stars movie.
I ended up leaving with disbelief why there is such a lame move in
every aspect of it except the clothing and beautiful scenes. In short,
they put Morgan Freeman in cameo appearance to lure moviegoer, he just
appears very briefly. The story may be good for reading but the acting
is very poor. Remember how officers and generals in Roman Legionnaire
look? They are mostly glorified and be surrounded by thousands of
troops in full battle (beautiful) gears. In this movie we only see a
few officers and they are mostly by themselves in every scenes arguing,
fighting, escorting prisoners to Rome, no more than 5 Roman soldiers
around wherever the officers go, to the point that they are beaten,
ridiculed, wounded, or killed easily. The most ridiculous part, to me,
is those no-skilled peasant-turned-fighters were able to fight off or
killed the fiercest gladiators who side with the Romans. Lastly, the
story put lots of people (suddenly) to appear at the perfect time,
perfect location, with fighting skill, or luck, to fight the Romans,
and won; The whole movie is just like that. 

No offense here but I don't know why other viewers put this movie more
than 3 stars? To me, if you give movies like "Gladiators", "300" 100
points, this one barely makes 10 points.

Unbelievably lame!
<|_=00=_|>
What a dreadful effort, it took a lot of creativity for this film to be
this bad. The frustrating thing they didn't even have to take a chance,
the book is over a 150 years old, there was a blockbuster stage show
and 2 blockbuster films, all they had to do was minorly tweak the
original book, or use one of the smash-hit films as a guide. I venture
to say Ben Hur is one of our great stories, it has everything, love,
spectacle, honour, adventure, redemption, meaning, a moral, and even a
miracle' where could you go wrong. But wrong they went and I was never
so angry and disappointed at a film and it was all down to ineptitude
and pure genius at incompetence I mean how could anyone spend 100
million on Ben Hur and get it so wrong, the mind boggles. I give it 4
stars as the 2 great iconic scenes of which we all know, the Naval
battle and the Chariot race were quite good. But the story around those
events, the iconic Ben Hur story was complete and utter motiveless
drivel.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't really going to write a review but when I saw all the hate
this movie was getting -I couldn't help myself and thought that this
movie deserved some justice... I can understand that fans of the
original movie aren't pleased- I guess they feel like seeing a book
they really like getting butchered on screen- but in this case I don't
think that happened. I came with low expectations and actually quite
enjoyed it! The visuals were amazing-I'm an archaeology buff- roman to
be specific and I think that for the first time in a long time I really
felt immersed and got excited from seeing stuff I usually see in a
museum come to life- The hippodrome was amazing!! And so were the
costumes and the sets. In short the art director is a genius. And I
finally feel that they got the look of Jerusalem almost right- at least
the best version of Jerusalem on screen I've ever seen. (Kingdom of
heaven's Jerusalem was awful). As for the characters they were likable-
and I did find myself caring for them and being moved at the end. (All
though I'm not sure I liked Jesus in it.. His portrayal made things
slightly cheesy.. But not too bad.

In short... I think it's pretty good and stands on it's own and should
be given a chance-especially since some part of me felt the honest need
to defend it- and that doesn't happen a lot..And I do actually want to
see this movie again :) Sorry that I didn't put further details- but
you know- spoilers... Plus I'm sure that all the other reviewers
already have..
<|_=00=_|>
The story of Ben-Hur is back on the big screen this time directed by
Timur Bekmambetov starring Jack Huston, Toby Kebbell and Morgan
Freeman. The movie is set in Jerusalem and tells the story of a prince
who goes by the name of Judah Ben-Hur. Judah's adopted brother Messala
Severus is part of the Roman army that occupies the city. Both brothers
have a different idea of what is needed to keep the peace in Jerusalem
and this eventually causes the brothers to directly oppose one another.
Ultimately this causes the enslavement of Judah and his family made
possible by the betrayal of Messala himself. What follows is a story
about Judah trying to regain his life and his road to revenge.

The movie starts out trying to establish the relationship that Judah
Ben-Hur (Jack Huston) and Messala Severus (Toby Kebell) have. This is
however not done in a very convincing manner due to the very stupid
screen writing. It seems as if no thought has gone into the writing of
the dialogue as almost every conversation feels fake. The story itself
is presented in an incredibly dull fashion with story- arcs that have
no real purpose paired with an ending that is completely ridiculous.
What also does not help is that the acting is never really anything to
write home about. The two main actors at least seem to have tried to
bring some depth to their characters, but the same cannot be said about
the many supporting actors. This is especially true for Morgan Freeman
who seems to bring as much life to the screen as a decapitated sock
puppet.

The direction of the film also leaves a lot to be desired. Almost every
scene was shot by using hand-held camera and instead of enhancing a
certain aspect of the story this achieves the opposite effect. During
the many conversations the director puts a heavy emphasis on the
characters through excessive use of close-up shots. Once again this
achieves the opposite of what it sets out to do as no one is really
interested in seeing characters that are as flimsy as possible.

Most of the times the only redeeming factor of these kind of movies is
the action itself, but Bekmambetov's incompetent direction also finds a
way to ruin this part of the movie. Quite a lot of action sequences
only seem to exist to liven up certain parts of the movie, mostly to no
avail as the movie still manages to come to a crawling pace halfway
through its runtime. The action sequence themselves are filled to the
brim with shaky cam and quick cuts. This in turn causes the action to
be extremely hard to follow as it is never really clear what is going
on. This was of course the intention of the director to be able to hide
the poorly choreographed stunt work. In a lot of scenes characters pull
of certain moves that they would not have been able to if they did not
have control over the power of editing. For these reasons it is very
hard to become invested into the action especially since we never
really see the actors do certain stunts themselves.

In the end 'Ben-Hur' is a complete and utter trainwreck. Nobody really
asked for another retelling of Ben-Hur's story and I am fairly certain
that nobody really wanted to create it either as it seems that almost
no love and devotion has gone into making this failure of a Hollywood
blockbuster.

My Rating: 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin with such a deplorable movie? Let's start with
cinematography. The vast majority of the scenes are filmed in a
frustrating haze of darkness; the excessive use of close-ups is
nauseating; and, worst of all, the camera is constantly jerking
throughout the film, which left me with a splitting headache when I
left the theater.

When compared with the classic 1959 version, the 2016 story is as
humorously silly as it is shamefully insulting. Here's just a few
examples: In the chariot race, our hero falls out of his chariot;
manages, somehow, to hold on to the reins; is dragged for an entire lap
around the arena; finds the incredible strength to pull himself up back
into the chariot; and, most astounding, not a scratch is on him. Oh, by
the way, Ben-Hur's chariot breaks up at the end, permitting him to have
a climatic finish, literally rolling across the finish line.

Then, there is Ben-Hur's mother and sister, who are miraculously cured
of leprosy, but they do not have a clue as to whom they owe this
miracle. They are totally unsympathetic characters - as, in fact, all
of them are.

The adoption of Ben-Hur by Roman Counsel Quintus Arius, which is
crucial for setting the dramatic scene of Ben-Hur's return to Jerusalem
from the galleys, is totally missing. Instead, in this latest version,
Ben-Hur is reduced to a fugitive slave, running from the Judean
authorities like a scared rabbit.

In the 1959 version, the evil Macella dies in the chariot race, but
with his last breath informs a bewildered Ben-Hur - in a triumphant
tone - that his mother and sister are lepers and that "the race goes
on." Ben-Hur, naturally, is crushed by the news. In the 2016 version,
in stark contrast, Macella lives (minus a leg); the two tearfully
forgive each other; and, at very the end, they ride off on horses into
the sunset like some Grade B western.

Please. PLEASE! Watch the critically-acclaimed 1959 version and you
will enjoy perhaps the greatest Hollywood film of all time. However, if
you choose, like me, to go see this latest version out of curiosity,
remember that you have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
i had the misfortune of sitting through this chariot wreck a few days
ago. only thing that kept me going was the obviously unfunny attempts
to parody the life of brian. 

in the scene where the Roman general was grilling Brian (Ben Hur), i
expected him to say 'thow him to the fwoor centurion' and in the
crucifixion scene i wanted them to sing 'always look on the bright side
of life', but they didn't unfortunately.

and is Morgan Freeman so hard up for cash, he needed to take this job?
did he even read the script?

avoid this at all cost, just awful
