
Where do I begin? As a lifelong Star Trek fan I had an uneasy feeling
while watching this movie. I could not shake the sense that I was just
looking at another mediocre summer popcorn flick; an experience that
would evaporate from my brain just hours after I leave the theater.

I remember sitting in the cinema with my head low embarrassed by the
movie, although I wanted it to prove me wrong ever since I saw the
"Beastie Boys" trailer back in 2015. Instead, it dragged along with
that "proven" Hollywood formula of what a summer hit should look like.
Constricted by its own creative limitations I was looking at a product
that was not a science fiction in its core, but a creation that had
only one intention since its birth: to milk as much money as possible.

Star Trek Beyond was so devoid of the primordial concepts set up by Mr.
Gene Roddenberry that it contributed to the confused identity of the
picture. The plot of the movie is so "light" in its essence that it
lacks the moral dilemmas, the exploration (inner and outer) and the
development usually present in the Star Trek universe. There was
neither message nor any character evolution and we did not learn more
about anything really. Instead of Kirk, Spock and Scotty you could
stick just any name over the protagonists and nobody would have
noticed. The story was atrocious and full with plot holes patched up by
unnecessary although flashy looking CGI. 

Star Trek Beyond also has one of the weakest villains in its history.
It was definitely not the actors fault and such a shame to waste the
opportunity of having a strong artist like Idris Elba. It was the fault
of the writer and the director who missed the opportunity to take Star
Trek back on its track. Instead they created a cute flick full with
needless CGI scenes, explosions and dialogue written for "dumb"
audiences. Everything had to be explained to the viewers, nothing was
left to the imagination. There was nothing to debate with your friends
after the movie or something to stir your imagination or to push you to
prod its meaning. Nothing like that at all, everything was given on a
run-of-the-mill plate for the audience to consume in a shortest
possible time frame.

The movie had its moments, so not everything was complete rubbish. I
liked the character of Jaylah and some of the humor, but that was it.
Some of the scenes were of course visually impressive though sometimes
things would fly around too much and contaminate the image. Of course
this movie was done by people, who know their job, but I am not
pondering the execution and the skill of the artists, I am merely
concerned about the soul of this thing we love so much. 

This thing we used to know of as Star Trek.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointed with this entry in the series. Star Trek to me isn't about
motorcycles and loud music, it's more about exploring science fiction
concepts and themes through great storytelling (which this film has
very little of). The "twist" at the end is figured out about a 1/3 of
the way in. Lazy storytelling where props are laid for action scenes
for no apparent reason (why is there a motorcycle aboard a starship?).

On the plus side, the cast is magnificent and the charm they bring to
their roles makes this enterprise watchable. It's too bad the script
and direction don't give them much to do. Mr. Lin, while a good action
director, isn't a good storyteller. While that's good for the Fast &
Furious franchise, Star Trek deserves better.
<|_=00=_|>
How is it possible to spend so much cash making a movie so utterly
meaningless and bad? 185 million USD?

This is 2 hours of your life that you will never get back.

So, where to start? First off the story is so thin and seems like a
child wrote it. It has no depth and right from the beginning you feel
basically nothing for the bad guys or the good guys, and there are so
many holes in the story.

There happens to be a huge base far out in space where the Enterprise
is going to restock? Isen't the Enterprise supposed to be out in deep
space exploring?

Next to this large space base there is a nebula and apparently a planet
with perfect conditions for human survival. It seems to be right next
to the large space base, which would seem very very unlikely
considering the vastness of space. And the crew happen to land on the
same small area of this huge planet so they can all meet up.

Then they meet a character that seems to be a bad mix of Rey from Star
Wars and Neytiri from Avatar who happen to have found an old federation
ship (that of course they can get to work after 150 years on a deserted
planet), very unoriginal.

So the reason for the bad guy Krall to lure the Enterprise to his
planet and destroy it seems to be a device that Kirk has that will help
Krall kill people. But in the end of the movie it is very clear that
using his ships alone he could have easily destroyed the base - so what
was the purpose of this relic device in the first place?

There is quite bad CGI during the whole movie. In every action packed
scene especially the fighting the camera moves around so much it is
hard to grasp what is happening. But even with this shaky camera trick
it's impossible to miss how utterly bad these scenes are. The fighting
scene between Manas and our Rey character is one of the worst Iv seen
in a long time.

The only thing decent with this movie are some of the actors and their
dialog. Everything else, from story to script to CGI is just garbage.

Im sorry I like Star Trek I really do, but this movie is not worth
seeing in the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
The Gene Roddenberry's legacy is nowhere to find in this film. This
Star Trek movie feels more as a Marvel Comics flick than a Star Trek
movie. One- dimensional characters, a whirlwind of imagery, a meager
story and over the top villains and hero's. 

A true Star Trek movie for me is one with a nice story, sound science,
a spec of humor, real characters, and last but not least; always in
search of the human condition. Star trek is more than the sum of
episodes and movies, its a way of thinking, and inspired millions of
people -personal and professional- to make the world a better place.
The brightest people off all humanity, like Stephen Hawking, NASA
scientists, all love Star Trek. 

If Director Justin Lin had seen all of the Star Trek series and movies,
he would never made such a terrible -for me- horrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was worried when Justin Lin was signed on to direct. I am not a fan
of the mindless Fast and Furious franchise with its ridiculous stunts
and silly plots. I gave him a chance, because after all, its Star Trek. 

What we got was Fast and Furious in space. Just running, fighting,
explosions, one frantic scene after another with no time to develop
characters, motivations, or even plausible Sci-Fi. It feels shallow, a
promising plot sacrificed to the alter of YA expectations. 

Another Star Trek movie where the enterprise is destroyed, again? Is
this sci-fi disaster porn now?

The dialogue is forced, the banter off tempo, and in the end, the
actors talents and IP were wasted on what feels like a B movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Nine hundred and sixty-six days into its five-year voyage, the USS
Enterprise arrives at Starbase Yorktown, a massive "snowglobe"-like
station with its own internal atmosphere and cityscape, to replenish
dwindling supplies while the crew takes shore leave. Struggling to find
continued meaning in their mission, Captain James Kirk has applied for
a promotion to Vice Admiral of Yorktown, and plans to name Spock as the
new captain of the Enterprise. Meanwhile, Hikaru Sulu reunites with his
husband and daughter, Spock and Nyota Uhura have amicably ended their
relationship, and Montgomery Scott works to keep the ship operational.
Spock also receives word from New Vulcan that Ambassador Spock, his
elder counterpart from the original time-line, has passed away.

An escape pod drifts out of a nearby nebula. The survivor, Kalara,
claims her ship is stranded on Altamid, a planet in the nebula, and the
Enterprise is dispatched on a rescue mission. The rescue turns into an
ambush when the Enterprise is overwhelmed by a massive swarm of ships
and is badly damaged. The swarm's alien commander, Krall, boards the
ship searching for an alien artifact that Kirk had obtained on a recent
mission. The swarm rips apart the Enterprise, and the saucer section
crashes to the planet as the crew abandons ship in escape pods.

On the planet's surface, Sulu, Uhura and other surviving crew are
captured by Krall. Kirk and navigator Pavel Chekov, accompanied by
Kalara, find the crashed saucer section. Kalara is discovered to be
Krall's ally when she attempts to retrieve the artifact for him. To
escape Krall's crew, Kirk activates the still-functional boosters,
causing the saucer to lurch forward and crush Kalara. Meanwhile, a
seriously wounded Spock and Dr. Leonard McCoy search for the other
survivors. Spock tells McCoy of Ambassador Spock's death and that he
intends to leave Starfleet to continue his counterpart's work on New
Vulcan. Meanwhile, Scotty is rescued by Jaylah, a scavenger who
previously escaped Krall's encampment. She takes him to her makeshift
home, the wreck of the USS Franklin, an early-generation Starfleet
vessel that went missing over a hundred years ago. With Scotty's help,
the ship is repaired, and Scotty, Kirk and Chekov, and McCoy and Spock,
reunite using the ship as a base. The group plans to raid Krall's camp
to rescue the crew and transport them to the Franklin then escape the
planet. Meanwhile, Krall coerces a member of Kirk's crew to hand over
the artifact that she had kept hidden for Kirk. Krall reveals the
artifact is the missing half of an ancient bio-weapon, created by the
planet's original inhabitants, that can disintegrate a humanoid life
form in seconds. With the device now complete, Krall intends to attack
Yorktown and kill its inhabitants, and, using its advanced technology,
go on to attack the Federation.

Kirk and the others free the crew as Krall launches from the planet
with the bio-weapon, leading his fleet to Yorktown. The Enterprise crew
pursues Krall in the Franklin. Scotty transports Spock and McCoy into
one of Krall's drone ships where they eject the crew. They discover how
the drone vessels coordinate. Krall's communications is disrupted with
VHF transmissions, causing mass confusion that results in the fleet's
destruction. Krall and his three remaining officers crash in Yorktown.
As Krall escapes into the city, Uhura and Kirk discover from the
Franklin's logs that Krall is actually Balthazar Edison, the captain of
the Franklin. A human soldier from before the Federation's formation,
Edison became disillusioned with his life and purpose after peace was
established with humanity's enemies. When he and his crew were stranded
in the nebula, he believed he had been deliberately cast aside. Having
prolonged his life using the planet's alien technology that also
physically deformed him, Krall/Edison now plans to destroy the
Federation in revenge. Kirk pursues Krall into the Yorktown's
ventilation system where Krall attempts to unleash the bio-weapon on
the entire station. Kirk forces Krall into a portal, causing the weapon
and Krall to be ejected into space, where the weapon consumes Krall.
Spock and McCoy save Kirk before he is blown into space.

Kirk is offered the promotion to Vice Admiral, but he opts to remain as
a captain. Spock receives a box containing some of the personal effects
of Ambassador Spock; reflecting on an included photograph of the aged
crew of the Enterprise from the original time-line (circa Star Trek V:
The Final Frontier), he chooses to remain in Starfleet and resumes his
relationship with Uhura. Jaylah is accepted into Starfleet Academy on
Scotty's recommendation. As the crew celebrates Kirk's birthday, they
view the construction of their new ship, the USS Enterprise-A.
<|_=00=_|>
Those of you who haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favor and skip
it. If you gave this movie a high rating when it was out, I suggest you
try to watch it again. I'm betting that you will see what I saw -- a
really bad movie. In fact, it is so bad, I'm actually taking this time
out of my day to write this. I feel ripped off by it.

The dialogue was so bad, the audience was laughing at it throughout the
movie. With the crap they had to work with, the actors didn't shine
either. Chris Pine came off stiff and unlike-able. He's still not my
favorite Kirk but he's been good prior. With nothing to work with in
terms of a script, the cast is just limp and uninteresting.

The story itself is silly and implausible. Now, I know in science
fiction you have to suspend belief to some degree but this story just
stretched me way to far in terms of mad coincidences.

I couldn't wait for this film to end. I'm a life-long Star Trek fan but
I'm bailing on this reboot series. "Beyond" was the worst Star Trek
movie I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
After the noisy and irretrievably stupid (though reasonably
entertaining) Into Darkness, I wasn't desperate to watch this one, but
when I finally did I was relieved to discover that it was even more
enjoyable than the first film in the reboot, a rollicking adventure
with terrific alien weapons, fun McCoy/Spock repartee, a promising
newcomer alien, and a lot of really excellent action scenes. 

The movie had almost all the qualities of the original series except
one - the thinking part. The smartest thing in the movie is the funny
opening scene, which suggests the difficulty of communication between
different cultures. 

But that's the last thing in the movie that suggests even a moment of
thought. The main villain has very little in the way of motivation, and
when he explains his purpose it's quite disappointing. Nothing in this
movie is there to provoke thought, and I'm not entirely convinced that
anything in the movie really makes sense, although there's nothing at
the time that hit me as too absurd to live with (unlike the previous
movie).

If you expect this movie, like the series, to explore racism and war
culture, well, you're not going to be happy. But if you just want some
old-fashioned action with some familiar characters, this totally hits
the spot.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always said that if I was wrong about something, I would own up to
it.

Well over the last year or so, I've been immensely skeptical of Star
Trek Beyond. I became iffy over the problems with the script, I was
skeptical over Fast & Furious director Justin Lin being put at the helm
and then the first trailer seemed to confirm all my worst fears about
what the film would become. I about washed my hands of it, deciding for
the first time that I wouldn't see it in cinemas. Then it came out and
people whose opinions I trust sang it praises. So I decided to give it
a go after all...

Well folks I was wrong. Star Trek Beyond wasn't the wham bam, action
driven and plot less film that the trailer made it to be back in
December. Far from it, truth be told.

Though it didn't start out that way. The opening minutes of Beyond are
comparatively slow compared with the openings of the two films that
proceeded it though it does do a nice job of bringing the audience up
to speed where this version of the Enterprise crew stand some three
years into their five year mission. The film finally gets going plot
wise though that ultimately leads into the first major action sequence
which felt like a long retread of a big part of the climax of Into
Darkness. That was just the opening of the film thankfully.

Once it moves beyond that slow and at times clunky opening, Beyond
soars. The plot is an intriguing mix of Trek elements including
exploring elements of the series mythos including tie-ins to one of the
franchise's spin-offs that came as a pleasant surprise. Not only that
but the film contains quite a few little Easter eggs for long time fans
which range from references to lines of dialogue. These are things that
will make those fans happy while not alienating an audience of new
viewers, something that has been key to the success of the this new
Trek film series. Not only that but that but Beyond's ultimate message
about strength in unity, not giving into the prejudices and patterns of
the past is also a timely one as well. Despite the issues with the
early part of the film, it's a significant improvement over the plot of
Into Darkness three years ago.

The action sequences of the film also work splendidly. While the
trailers gave the wrong impression of many of them, in context they
work splendidly from chase sequences to fist fights that take full
advantage of what a big budget film can do over what the series did
back in the 1960s. The climax is a tour de force of the kind of sci- fi
action/adventure that Trek does well even if it does include a Beastie
Boys song as part of the action (which I have to admit didn't work in
the trailer but actually works in context here). Actually that last
sentence sums up so much of the action sequences, most especially a
sequence involving a motorcycle which makes no sense until you see it
in the film itself.

In the midst of all that though, it doesn't lose track of its
characters. There's quite a bit for everyone to do in this film after
some of them were sidelined in the past. Simon Pegg's Scotty comes
across quite well and there's more screen time for Zoe Saldana's Uhura
and the now sadly late Anton Yelcin's Chekov. The focus though is on
Trek's three greatest lead characters and it is a genuine pleasure to
see Chris Pine, Zachary Quinto and Karl Urban grasp their roles and run
with them. The film's supporting cast does well with Sofia Boutella's
Jaylah coming off the best of the lot. Idris Elba's villainous Krall is
effective in his scenes though Elba as an actor is effectively lost
behind layers of makeup. All told though, it's a solid cast with the
Enterprise crew really getting a chance to shine here.

Despite what is one of the poorest marketing campaigns in the history
of the Star Trek film series, Beyond is definitely worthy of the
franchise as a film. While not on the level of the 2009 reboot, it is
definitely a step in the right direction that proves that this fifty
year old creation of Gene Rodenberry is far from being done. So forget
the terrible trailers and boldly go see it at a cinema near you.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek Beyond has gone beyond with a dazzling array of amazing
visual images and a multitude of fascinating new designs and exciting
sites that bedazzle including a few reminiscent of Tomorrowland (2015)
and much more. Unfortunately the beginning of the movie is pretty
corny, the jokes and the attempt to conform to the old Star Trek lines
and characters seemingly out of place and awkwardly presented. The rest
of the storyline had potential, but it was directed in such a way that
it became more good guys versus bad guys, with one fight scene after
another. Pretty mindless stuff in comparison to the mindful themes of
the original television series and Star Trek: The Next Generation.
