
If there was a 6.5, I would give it. Because there was a lot to like in
this movie. I like Mark Wahlberg. I like the bear. I like Amanda
Seyfried. And there were a lot of good laughs in this movie. Good
one-liners, and good recurring gags.

However, it just wasn't enough to make up for a horrible plot. The plot
is lifted from "Miracle on 43rd Street." But it is not Christmas, Ted
is not Santa. Somehow Ted does not rise to the mythical level of Santa,
this is not a movie for kids. and the movie falls flat. Markie Mark is
same as ever, and I do enjoy him. Kudos to Amanda Seyfried, who tries
so hard to make the romance story line work. But I could never get past
the fact that I was watching MW and AS and a wise-cracking stuffed
bear. Some good laughs? Yes. A good story? Not even close.
<|_=00=_|>
Ted 2 now focuses on the titular anthropomorphic teddy bear in, having
his own life of marriage and plans ahead of getting a non-biological
child. This leads to a strangely interesting conflict about gaining
civil rights to a teddy bear. And it's stranger that at some point the
movie does take it somewhat seriously, and eventually goes back to its
crass hijinks. It's nice, but nothing much compelling in the end,
because what obviously overshadows it is definitely the outrageous
laughs. But even the degree of laughs suffers the same problem; it's
full of energy at first then it awkwardly mutes its lighter tone for
its climax. Fans of the first may get the same pleasure that they seek,
but there is really nothing special to it, either.

The first half really has the strongest amount of funny moments and
also brought some intrigue to the story's center. But the movie
apparently cannot decide what exact approach it is generally taking.
The outrageous comedy is still everywhere, but whenever it stops by
focusing on its themes, it really takes it seriously, like it actually
believes that it is saying something important. But the movie hardly
earns anything to deserve that attention. It's just shifting from its
outrageous nature to a sudden gravity back and forth. Even for a comedy
that is actually just fooling around, it stills displays a mind of
uncertainty. There is also some bits of attempting to replicate
Broadway; with dance numbers and a song. Can't tell if that's one of
the movie's way of tripping or the director just wants to show off that
he can do a musical. Either way, it rather feels nothing more than a
random filler. The movie is also a little too long, the movie hitting
the same major problem of the first film by setting up a climax that
it's supposed to drive tension. It never felt right for the film, even
worse, it's more like a rehash, reintroducing the same villain except
it takes place in a different location. It's rather awkward and tedious
than effective.

The sentiment doesn't felt convincing enough for the movie's true
colors, but then it's all about the humor. And if the humor works, then
there is a worthy roar of laughter to get from this film. Predictably
raunchy, pot fueled and consists pop culture references; that will
certainly be enjoyed if you understand the language of a Seth
MacFarlane comedy. It's fun if it really tries to be fun. The
performances from its lead actors are still a joy to watch. MacFarlane
still manages to put energy to the talking teddy bear and Mark Wahlberg
is still committed to fool around as Ted's man child best friend.

Ted 2 doesn't bring the same surprise of the first one, but if you're
in for more outrageous laughs from this profane talking teddy bear,
then it won't be a problem, as long as you're not expecting too much.
The film does try to bring on an important theme, but it's not as
effective or as strong as it wanted to be; it does make some
interesting arguments, just doesn't have any powerful or at least
earned conclusion to it; but hell, who would exactly take that
seriously, anyway? Well, no more than the movie itself. It should have
been shorter, the storyline should have been tighter, and the third act
should have tried harder than repeating its predecessor. Again, it can
be really funny, it just suffers handling its ideas better.
<|_=00=_|>
The truth is that Ted 1 exhausted itself right in the trailer and the
rest of film was kind of superfluous, but it was cute to see a dumb
summer movie that doesn't take itself too seriously and is occasionally
funny. TED 2 on the other hand takes itself much too seriously in
trying to deal with the humanity of Ted. Seriously, what can a potheads
and fart jokes movie tell us about being human? Lots of recycled jokes
from Ted 1 and Ted as the main comic attraction in the movie just
doesn't work anymore. There are a few good jokes and visual gags as
befitting a summer comedy, but the rest are only marginally funny with
a boring movie plot that connects them. You can see it if you happen to
be home and stoned with nothing better to do :)
<|_=00=_|>
The first Ted I saw was a brilliant comedy with great idea of showing a
toy for little children playing a role of a s*x dr*gs'n'rock&roll guy.
There was some jokes which hit my taste & were too disgusting - but
overall whole movie was hilarious. Ted 2 - unfortunately has got the
opposite proportion of these, being mostly disgusting with awkward
jokes making me ill at ease. Scenes like a trying to w*nk out a person
to get his sp*rm (Ted tries to have a baby) or John being weighed down
by a cabinet full of sem*n containers (in a sp*rm bank)... and covered
with... it... Just awful. I've seen some movies with kinda same sort of
humor like: Borat, Bruno & The Dictator for example. These were
hilarious or something around that... But this one goes far far lower &
seeks for the bottom... Not recommending
<|_=00=_|>
I really can't understand why many critics went harsh on this one.

The film is jutted with quality humour - social, political and
personal. It lives up to the expectations and doesn't slack anywhere at
all. It makes us laugh but also makes us uneasy at times not because of
crassness but because it reveals the underbelly of our social setup.

I am waiting for Ted 3 - I sincerely hope McFarlene considers it. Ted
should run up for Governor or President. It will fit in nicely with the
US presidentials in 2016 and should reveal the shallowness of modern
political campaigning.

Go Seth go...
<|_=00=_|>
In 2012 when Seth Macfarlane's directorial debut was released, I, like
many other people enjoyed it a lot. It was a basic film about a man and
his senile teddy bear who would just smoke weed, swear a lot and hang
out. That premise was enough to get us on board and it worked for a one
off feature film. After the box office success it received a sequel was
inevitable.. but how could a film with such a premise possibly do
anything more to become a franchise? Well not only does Ted 2 ramp up
the laughs, it also gives us a surprisingly strong plot and pulls it
off well.

The basic premise is that Ted has married Tammi-Lynn from the first
film, whereas John has divorced Lori. Following some marital problems,
Ted decides to save his marriage with a baby, but in order to do this
he has to prove that he is a person and not just property in the eyes
of the law. Enter Sam L. Jackson (Amanda Seyfried) and yes as you would
expect there are many references to the Hollywood star. I knew Mila
Kunis was not coming back for this film and after her performance in
the lacklustre 'A million ways to die in the West' i was not expecting
Seyfried to be a good replacement, but she fits in with the cast very
well. Just like the first film the chemistry between John (Mark
Wahlberg) and Ted (Seth Macfarlane) is what makes the comedy work so
well, you really believe you are watching two real life friends hang
out, rather than Mark Wahlberg and a CGI teddy bear. The plot wasn't
what made the first so enjoyable, it was their bond. Amanda Seyfried
fits in with these two so well and as a trio they really mesh well
together. She brings a lot of laughs to the table and I actually liked
her character more than Mila Kunis'. 

Whilst the plot is very good and holds up, the third act takes a bit of
a plunge and almost copies the last act of the first film completely.
Giovanni Risbi reprises his role as Donny and does exactly what he did
originally, just for a slightly different reason. The film could have
done without this to focus more on the human elements, even though it
was hilarious to see Ninja turtle Raphael dance to 'I think we're alone
now'. It almost felt like filler to make a longer movie. The small road
trip segment to me was great, we got spoofs of both Planes, Trains and
Automobiles and a great Jurassic Park spoof in the space of a couple of
minutes. In fact the pop culture references from Rocky to Flash Gordon
(Sam J Jones returns) were pretty great. I also loved the courtroom
scenes, and even Morgan Freeman in an extended cameo provided us with a
very good look at what human rights are all about.

What i wanted from this film was to laugh, which i did, a lot more than
i expected to as well which is a bonus. Look out for a hysterical cameo
from Liam Neeson. The 'is Ted a human' storyline felt like a bold and
wonderful step forward and brings up way more questions about human
rights than any Seth Macfarlane production should.. but not in a bad
way at all. It focuses a lot less on the drugs and crude jokes, even
though they are very much still there! But the way it was executed was
just great. I wish the third act had stuck with it, but by the end if
you are a fan of Seth Macfarlane's work such as Family Guy you will
come out satisfied after plenty of laughs and a surprising amount of
heart. Will we get a Ted 3? Most likely, but if it keeps up what Ted 2
did right then i just might be okay with that.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the first ted film I was hugely excited for this film
while also being a bit nervous because sequels of comedies are never
usually as good and this one follows that tradition. The premise of
this film sees Ted and John attempting to get Ted's civil rights so he
and Tammy Lynn can have a baby. Now Seth McFarlane plays the voice of
Ted and just like the first film he is great in this film as the voice
of this foul mouthed teddy bear. Some of the things he says is
hilarious and he even makes you care about this bear because he is so
lovable. Mark wahlberg returns as John and once again he and Ted's
chemistry is off the charts and is probably the best part of the film.
Also wahlberg shows off his comedic chops in this film and it really
does work. Amanda seyfried joins the cast in this film and she was also
really good in this film and made me laugh. She also fits in really
well in this film with John and Ted. However, I didn't feel the
character of Tammy Lynn was that good and I just didn't feel like her
character was funny in this film which didn't help. Also for some weird
reason Giovanni ribisi is back in his role from the first film and it
felt completely forced and completely unnecessary. Now what I liked
about the first film is that even though it was a comedy it had a heart
felt story to it that makes you care about the characters. This film is
all over the place with its narrative structure and I felt like the
story was really forgotten about and nobody cared about it. It could
have been interesting but it didn't have the substance that it should
have done. There was allot of funny dialogue in the film that will
really make you laugh but there is also some dialogue that falls flat
and you will just be sat there bored waiting for the next good joke
that comes around. There is some really funny scenarios in this film
with some good cameos but once again it just feels like it is a bunch
of comedy skits and nothing to go with the cameos. Overall this is an
average comedy that you won't really care to see again.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so looking forward to Ted 2 after really enjoying the first one.

What a disappointment!

Basically Ted is married to a hot girl and tries to get a baby to save
his marriage. However it all goes wrong and Ted is investigated and the
state say he is not a person so he loses all his rights job and
marriage. Ted than has a court battle to prove he is a person which he
eventually wins with the help of John his best buddy and girlfriend
lawyer. Such a boring plot really bad. The old enemy Donny tries to get
Ted as he is regarded as just Property, in attempt to make Hasbro rich
- this gets foiled by john who saves Ted

There are some funny bits to the movie, like Jurassic park bit where
they see cannabis field and some good one liners

However the film is looking and trying far too hard for jokes for every
line in the movie - rather than naturally funny they try all the time
to make one liners a lot of them not that funny.

The cute factor of Ted is wearing off and the magic too, I was so bored
after the first hour I wanted to leave, the jokes and sarcasm were so
predictable.

Hopefully no more Ted films but you can guarantee they will make Ted 3
just for the money.

Next time have a good plot and story this was very weak.
<|_=00=_|>
Ted 2 lets talk about it! OK i saw this film 2 months ago at an early
screening and unlike a few idiots on here i actually kept my mouth shut
due to the embargo and quiet possibly getting sued if i let any info
slip lol. Anyways i ENJOYED this movie a ton!!! Let's get one thing
straight here, if you didn't like the 1st TED or you don't like
anything Seth Mcfarlane related then STAY AWAY! This movie isn't for
you and it won't change your mind about anything. I LOVED the first ted
and i knew that this movie might be a weak sequel like most sequels are
now in days...... and surprise, surprise it actually exceeded my
expectations. Ted 2 is almost as good as the first! ALMOST! One of my
concerns was the cast change, i hate when movies replace or change
characters in sequels. SO i felt that Mila Kunis's absence was going to
be very obvious and there would be a hole in this movie that the new
lead Amanda Seyfried just could not fill. AND another surprise! Her
character worked to PERFECTION!!! The chemistry that she had with Mark
Wahlberg and Seth Mcfarlane was just amazing. I was like "there's no
way she could be better than Mila" and BOOM she nailed it.

The story most of you may already know from the trailers, Ted gets
married and then the State says Ted is property and not a person so the
marriage is annulled and he basically loses everything. So the story
worked, the first movie focused more on John and this one is more about
ted. I had no real complaints with this film, there is a cameo with
Liam Neeson which IMO was just pointless and not that funny.... There
are some moments where they try too hard with the jokes or to be
shocking but Besides a few nitpicks i had no complaints with this
movie! It is laugh out loud funny, it has serious moments similar to
the first and it's just a fun film! There are some returning characters
and i won't spoil that. And ohh yeah the Comic Con scene in this film
with Patrick Warburton and the running gag they have going on is SUPER
HILARIOUS!!! I'm giving TED 2 an 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Amateurish direction! Court scene really bad!! Swearing to cover lack
of jokes! 'Ted' good film. 'Ted 2' absolute rubbish. Will win lots of
'Raspberries'! Wanted to leave early. Two girls left halfway through!
Money wasted! Felt cheated that I paid to see this sequel!! Seth
McFarlane should have taken more time over the script! Will not go to
see 'Ted 3' if it is made? The film I badly made. The acting is
dreadful! The scene where Walberg kisses Seyfried is not good! As a
whole this film is a turkey. No good jokes and it is slow. No charm
unlike 'Ted'. Should never have went! Please don't go! Waste of money.
As I say I feel cheated!!!!
