
How can so many people get this this movie wrong, especially the
critics? The high point of the film is the performance by Emelia
Clarke. She is hair-brained, and scatty, completely adorable and
wonderful.The camera-work is gorgeous and the soundtrack is second to
none.

Lou (Emilia Clarke) gets a job as a carer to a man (William) who is
paralyzed more or less from the neck down. A budding friendship/romance
develops; and this is 90% a feel good movie.

The criticism of the movie that it depicts a life with profound
disability as almost worthless is completely mistaken. The movie
depicts William's life as worthwhile and precious. It is William's own
judgment that his life cannot go on as it is, and that he would prefer
to die.

With regard to this, the movie does tend to downplay the pain and
suffering that William experiences. Instead it focuses on the good
times and precious moments he spends will Lou. And as already stated,
the character of Lou is completely adorable. I am in love.
<|_=00=_|>
Thea Sharrock's film adaptation of Jojo Moyes's "Me Before You" is one
of those hidden gems, which we should all watch rather early than
later. 

First, the talented British cast is impressive. Emilia Clarke, Sam
Claflin, Janet McTeer, Charles Dance, Matthew Lewis, just to name a
few, beautifully create an emotional journey, which is more than just a
heart-breaking love story. Challenging our life perspectives every step
of the way, these actors invite us to live boldly and seize the
opportunities passing by. 

Louisa Clarke (Emilia Clarke), a naive 26-year old English woman, lives
in a peaceful village where nothing seems to be happening. Supporting
her whole family financially, Lou has a dull life working hard without
ever leaving our native city. When she loses her job at Buttered Bun
Cafe, her world is turned upside down. Desperately looking for a new
job, she goes to the local job center and is proposed to work for a
despicable 30ish-year old quadriplegic man called Will Traynor. His
desire not to get help makes him look miserable and frustrated.
However, with time, Lou pierces his shell and unveils Will's true
colors. She starts showing him how great his life could be. But one
revelation changes their relationship forever.

Best known for his roles as Finnick Odair in "The Hunger Games" series,
Sam Claflin's portrayal of Will is exquisite. It is almost
inconceivable to imagine him not being a part of this movie. The
physical and psychological challenge of playing a quadriplegic man, who
needs to feel like a man again, elevates the English-born actor to
Hollywood's acting A-list. In "Me Before You", Claflin convinces us
that words are way more impactful than being good looking. Through his
presence on the screen, Claflin inhabits one of the most powerful
quotes of Jojo Moyes's original story, "You only get one life. It is
actually your duty to live it as fully as possible". 

Playing opposite Claflin, Emilia Clarke ("Game of Thrones") shines
through with her naivety and authentic, clumsy attitude on the screen.
Her unique facial expression, while crying and laughing, makes us fall
even more for the quirky, innocent Lou. No one could have ever filled
the role better than the Mother of Dragons herself. Emilia Clarke is
LOU CLARKE! From her crazy outfits in the movie to her charming
personality, Clarke has it all. "Me Before You" will be the catalyst in
her career, so let's be ready to see some more of this bumble bee.

On a final note, we should be grateful to Jojo Moyes for questioning us
on the reality of assisted suicide and physical disabilities.There are
not lots of writers who have been able to make such a statement and
shake the status quo when it comes to life and death, but Moyes did it
beautifully. 

The only thing left to say is: GO WATCH this movie! You will not regret
it! It will make laugh, cry, but most importantly push you to embrace
life fully!

P.S. Bring with you some tissues! You might need them!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie really was adorable! I knew exactly what to expect since I
read the book, but I loved the adaptation. 

What helps the movie most is that the novelist, Jojo Moyees, wrote her
own screenplay. She did a great job transitioning the story from paper
to screen. Little things that were left out of the novel weren't really
needed to move the story along. 

Both Emilia Clarke and Sam Clafin were excellent. Her facial
expressions were amazing and her insane eyebrows deserve some type of
award all on their own. 

I thoroughly enjoyed the soundtrack as well.

Don't listen to critics and go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is getting mixed reviews, but I really enjoyed it. A very
bittersweet film that will leave you feeling happy and sad at the same
time. I never read the book that which this film is based on. But
sometimes movies are never has detailed has the books they are based
on.

A beautifully well made story, it about Louisa(Emilia Clarke) a 26 year
old who finds a job taking care of Will(Sam Claflin) a young
billionaire who is permanently confined to wheel chair after an
accident two years earlier, the use of his arms and legs are gone. At
first Will does not want Louisia there, and she does her best to put up
with him. But soon the form quite a friendship, she teaches him to
enjoy life again, and he shows her to be adventurous in life. But the
question is will this last? 

I like the chemistry between Claflin and Clarke, at no point it feels
forced. I really bought the affection they feel for one another. At
times Clarkes performance feels overly cartoonish, but still good in
most of it. Claflin is believable, and the question is how would you
feel if you where in his shoes. I don't care what the critics say, this
was a perfectly well made bittersweet film.
<|_=00=_|>
I admit that I have read the book and so when the movie came out, I
just HAD to go see it. So I drag my poor husband and we went to watch a
late show that was relatively full. I didn't tell him anything about
the movie and I watched him watching it. He actually really enjoyed it.
The movie was lovely. The movie itself was beautiful. The scenery was
set somewhere is rural England. There are green pastures, a castle and
beautiful stone walkways. 

We first meet Lou, a beautiful,charming, bubbly girly girl who is a
strong character but maybe a little too comfortable with her current
life and then we have Will. Dashing Will! Sarcastic, funny, a little
mean at first. They are world apart but through fate ( and Will
disabilities) they met and slowly realize what one possessed, the other
needs. Even if they never really knew it. 

As the movie progress, they falls for each other and we all fall for
them. I loved Emily as Lou and Sam as Will. They played their roles
perfectly and the chemistry between then was undeniable. I think
everyone should go and watch this movie if you love romantic comedy. It
is hilarious at times and yet sweet. I assure you that you'll feel
every emotion out there with this movie. It's so beautiful. 

Go watch it and judge yourself. For me, this is an amazingly beautiful
love story.
<|_=00=_|>
Felt very derivative of Intouchables I did however really enjoy the
romance that was in this film.

Emilia Clark has the most expressive face I have ever seen on camera.

Watch her eyebrows! That's all I have to say. You could almost watch
this entire movie just staring at her eyebrows I had a hard time not
doing that.

I really enjoyed her character. She is a silly, eccentric, perpetually
happy girl. With a pretty eclectic sense of style.

Emilia Clarke was perfectly cast for this role.

She ventures far from her intense power house character the Mother of
Dragons from Game of Thrones.

At times it was hard to tell if Emilia Clarke the actress is just
extremely expressive with her face, or if it was something she was
doing for the role which I suppose speaks to how well she did.

Because I'm thinking she was exaggerating it, therefore she played the
part marvellously.

The male lead is Sam Claflin, who you will more than likely recognize
but not be able to place. His largest role as of late is the water
proficient fighter from the Hunger Games.

I also feel he played the part very well. No complaints, He has a great
smile, or smirk, that he does through out, which allows us to empathize
with him a little more when he seeming unlikable.

There are a lot of light moments, actually the whole movie has a very
light tone to it it's a serious topic, but with Clarke's character
it's hard for anything to be too serious or solemn. There are those
sombre moments, which is, I'm sure, why I was given a tissue box at the
advance screening.

There were only a few editing aspects I didn't enjoy. There were far
too many cuts in certain scenes Emilia walking up to the mansion for
the first time and her conversation on the bench with her boyfriend.
They were distracting. This was sprinkled throughout the film to
greater or lesser degrees.

I think the film looked pretty, great locations. And a wonderful set,
really. The house Claflin's character lives in looks very nice. I loved
all the walls that opened when pushed on. Very modern, and expensive
I'm sure.

There is a little treat for any Harry Potter fans! Neville Longbottom,
all grown up and looking fit, he plays the part of Emilia Clarke's
boyfriend. I hope to see him in more roles, maybe even a lead one day.

As for family friendliness, this movie is a G, it is good to go. In the
opening scene Claflin is presumably being intimate with his girlfriend,
they are obviously naked, but nothing is shown, they are under sheets.

There is no cursing or obscenities in this movie worth mentioning.
<|_=00=_|>
At times I feel that humanity has forgotten, or never really knew, what
it is to really love someone. Jojo Moyes obviously isn't one of those
people. Love isn't the lust we feel at the beginning of a relationship.
It's not the thoughtful vision we compile of what the future could be
like or how compatible we are. It's not about how financially
successful a prospective partner is. It's certainly not all about sex,
although it would be hard to come to this conclusion when the media
generally plays strongly to that idea. It's the undeniable,
overwhelming pull from our hearts that grows only when we really let
ourselves care about someone unselfishly. 

Thank you Jojo for playing this out so beautifully. Thank you Emelia
and Sam for either knowing this experience or fabulously, convincingly
portraying it on screen. This movie is a treat to watch and a glimpse
of what it feels like to be a person who lives their life with a moral
conscience, an open mind, a respect for beliefs that are different than
yours and a desire to see the best in the world. 

I feel absolutely cleansed of negativity after watching this and my
hope for the world is renewed. A glorious experience!
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. It stayed very true to the book and I love the
book. I think Emilia Clarke was born to play her. I feel like she was
just playing herself cause she has a personality like that in real
life. It was pure joy to watch her play Lou. The expressions she makes,
the way she talks and most of all, her amazing clothes! I loved every
single outfit she wore. This film made me laugh and it made me very
emotional, just like the book. I think Sam Claflin was also born to
play Will. They had an amazing chemistry throughout the entire film and
the rest of the cast is also spot on. There are of course some parts
from the book that were left out but nonetheless, this film was still
amazing. I also want to point out that the soundtrack of the movie is
amazing as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Emelia Clarke's work on Game of Thrones is the only reason I watched
this movie in the first place. She is occasionally transcendent in that
role, where she must keep her eyebrows restrained, and I wanted to see
what would happen if her amazingly mobile brows were set free ... free
as her dragons.

There are a lot of solid things about this movie. The story (of a young
woman who cares for a quadriplegic young man) is strong, the direction
and cinematography good though not exceptional, the screen writing also
good-not-exceptional, the supporting cast (especially Janet McTeer and
Charles Dance)and leading man (Sam C.) quite good, and the emotional
notes it hits, though all predictable and often a bit overwrought (cue
swelling, heartwarming music...), ring true enough for an unabashed
romance.

So, not really my type of movie. But I am happy to say that I was
(almost) completely taken by Clarke's performance. Her character here
is nothing like her GoT role, but is in many ways an equally
fantasy-based role (but with clumsy shyness and striped leggings
instead of fireproof skin and dragons) -- and Clarke manages to pull
this character out of romantic fantasy into believability as
effectively as she brings to life her role as Mother of Dragons. She
has the combination of charisma, physical beauty, character-acting
chops, and inner luminosity to pull a fairly nice, 7-of-10 heartwarmer
up to a 9-of-10 charmer.
<|_=00=_|>
So you can tell I'm not a fan of this film just by my title and score.
The movie itself is okay at best. Emilia Clarke does a well enough job
with the role because the character she is playing is pretty much who
she is in real life; in other words, this role didn't require Emilia
acting much and that is a good thing because people are slowly figuring
out that she has a very limited range when it comes to acting. Towards
the end of the movie is when her limited acting range becomes apparent
thanks to the crying scenes, most of the scenes she does with tearless
crying which help to take you out of the movie. Don't get me wrong, her
acting isn't bad until the end when she is forced to show another
emotion other than bubbly. I should note the director does an excellent
job of hiding a good amount of Emilia's emotional scenes by having her
hug someone and then showing mostly the other person's face. I can
write a whole book on Emilia's overrated acting chops but I'm not here
to do that so let me carry on with this review. If it wasn't for the
ending, where we finally learn the real message of the film I would
have ranked the film about a 6 out of 10. But halfway into the film we
learn the quadriplegic character made a deal with his parents that he
will end his life after 6 months. During the film we learn this guy is
smart and etc, etc. Someone even points out that he could go back to
work if he wanted to but this guy is hell bent on killing himself for
the simple reason of which happens to be that he misses his old life so
he is giving up on this life. And apparently that is a good enough
reason to let the man kill himself. Great message to put out there into
the world. We recently lost Muhammad Ali. We all know about Muhammad
Ali's condition and we all saw the impact he had on the world both
before and in spite of his condition. He fought until the bitter end
and became more of a legend because of it. This movie encourages people
to take the easy way out. Now, I can understand how depression can play
a role in all of this but this character is a pretty boy with a sh!t
load of money.. and on top of that he found the love of his life and
she is more than ready to be with him forever. But his reasoning is
that he would only be a burden on her living her life. So yeah, this
movie pretty much matches the materialistic and self- absorbed nature
of what these modern times have transformed into. Whatever, the movie
is a chick flick at best so I don't care. Apparently suicide isn't
frowned upon when a quadriplegic is concerned. Moral of the story, you
have nothing to contribute to society once you become paralyzed. Maybe
this movie was funded by the government as a way of reducing the cost
of people with disabilities on healthcare. Euthanasia for the win!
Frankly, a disgusting message and an even more disgusting movie.
