
You know, Night at the Museum is one of those films where it's not a
huge movie, it's not a blockbuster, there's nothing wrong with it, it's
just generally not talked about in the film fan world as I've seen it.
It is however regarded as a nice family film to sit down and enjoy, so
was the second instalment, and this one isn't any different.

We all know the premise; a special Egyptian tablet makes it possible
for all the exhibits in the museum to come to life at night. What I'm
glad about is that this third film is not a rehash of the previous two;
it's predecessors had a similar theme of a main villain wanting the
table,t which were different enough to enjoy but Secret of the Tomb
does something completely different with it's plot and execution which
is an awesome change I enjoyed a lot. Of course another thing we enjoy
with these movies is the actual museum coming to life and they do some
really cool stuff with that idea and it's awesome to see these
historical figures interact with statues and even paintings!

They brought us some new characters too which included Lancelot who
steals so many scenes and has some great lines, I love that character;
also we get Ben Kingsley as King Merenkahre who surprisingly didn't
actually have much screen time for a big-name actor. Rebel Wilson as a
British security guard didn't quite grab me as the other characters
did, she was the comedic relief in what was already a comedy so her
presence wasn't really needed and could come off as annoying. In the
end Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb was a fun ride just like
the first two, it has some awesome surprises I wasn't expecting and all
round a good family film.
<|_=00=_|>
Another day, another sequel and this one is unfortunately another kids
movie that shouldn't have seen the light of day. I'm not against
sequels mind you, but in most kids series seldom is any sequel as good
as the first installment. This is the case for this past weekend's
release starring the ever wacky Ben Stiller and his posse of
celebrities. Yes my friends we take another trip back to the museum,
for another hopefully fun adventure amidst it's hallowed halls. So sit
back and read a late review of another Night at the Museum, the Secret
of the Tomb. 

Likes: One thing I have always liked with this series is the selection
of exhibits they choose to bring to life, and the integration of their
personalities. This installment brings the magic early on, bringing
back familiar faces like Teddy (Robin Williams), Jed (Owen Wilson), and
Octavius (Steve Coogan) in all their comedic glory. Amidst a grand
speech, cool CGI effects are put into effect to bring the
constellations alive that shine in all their cool blue light before
chaos arises. Once we get to the London museum, more exciting things
come alive, in the form of another CGI fossil, a mythical snake demon
made of metal, and the warrior with golden locks Lancelot (Dan
Stevens). The effects are fluid, the designs beautiful, and when
actually integrated into the movie, more on that later, you get the fun
feeling you got in the first movie. Unfortunately most of these objects
are background, aimlessly wandering around the scene while the big boys
come out to play. 

Outside of the special effects there are some fun pokes at human
society's obsessions, especially at internet videos, pop culture, and
of course ridiculous habits that celebrities have. Some of these jokes
are well timed, often delivered in a manner that is quite funny.
However, many of the jokes, as happens most of the time, lose their
charm and the lack of any witty humor makes it pretty much just
mindless rambling that kids will only enjoy. Oh sure it's cute, but
Hollywood needs to learn that more isn't necessary funnier, in fact
it's the opposite. However, audiences allow them to get away with it,
so what is the use in complaining. 

Now past funny, this Night at the Museum has another emotional side to
it, helping to teach the moral lesson of moving on in the magical
theatrical way. With the use of orchestrated symphony work, well angled
camera shots, decent writing, and of course great acting, I'll admit I
got that tingly feeling all over. No it's not gas, but those looking
for a life lesson reminder will get it in this film, and a decent
closing to the series I think. As for acting, well Stiller gets the
most screen time on this one. The verdict, it's alright when he's not
acting like a buffoon, and the man has some surprising agility and
giant snake battle skills. Most of the time he is a bumbling idiot, but
given enough time he can pull out some other feelings that we saw in
Meet the Parents. As for Williams, may he rest in peace, the man gave
one brilliant performance despite his character being diluted from its
previous glory. 

Dislikes: A lot in this category for this reviewer. It starts with the
adventure, which in the third installment has been diluted to a rushed
set of sequences, hastily edited together to get out in time for
Christmas. A shame since the tale had promise of suspense, timing, and
mystery that could have tied so many things together. Instead, the
story lacked any depth, quickly revealing the secret without so much a
trial, a challenge, or even an argument, it was just handed right to
them and a rather lame story as well. In addition, a lot of the
suspense was missing in this film, with only an irregular decay in the
tablet's magic threatening our heroes. Speaking of which the cavalcade
also lost their spunk, the strong willed character reduced to comedic
boobs, some of which hardly utter a line, as Ben Stiller takes center
stage. Such a shame indeed, but your kids will get a kick out of the
simplistic journey, that is if they can sit in there seats which some
chose not to. 

Instead the adventure was put aside for comedy, or what passed for it
in this movie. Yes there were a few zingers at first, but they quickly
were lost to stupid rants of ridiculous arguing with his caveman
doppleganger, stupid exchange of words with exhibits, and some rather
awkward discussions with Rebel Wilson. Sure it happens once or twice I
can handle it, but it just kept happening, even at the big, exciting
climax, with the lame bad guy. Why can these films not realize the
limits of tired jokes? I can't answer it either, but sadly it took away
from the movie. Perhaps this comedy was the reason why the characters
were also a shell of their former glory, and why they were pretty much
background characters with the new exhibits. Even the normally cute
dynamic between father and son was bad, Hollywood choosing to make the
son another lame teenager like most movies do. Is it accurate?
Probably, but in a movie with magical tablets you would think a little
magic could spread to the humans as well. 

I'm not going to lie, this movie failed me on many levels, and
disappointed me for the grand conclusion. Still, it is a cute film that
kids will handle, and still holds a little of the spark that got me
into the series. Worth a trip to the theater? Not really, but if you
wish to pay homage to a few of the stars I wouldn't blame you. My
scores for this film are: 

Adventure/Comedy/Family: 7.0 Movie Overall: 6.0
<|_=00=_|>
While viewing the film it is rather sad watching the final performance
of Mickey Rooney who played Gus in the first film and robin Williams in
one of his final film roles as Theodore Roosevelt who loons rather sad
and not his usual energetic self but I think he manages to do a decent
job in the role. In this installment, the tablet that keeps the
exhibits alive at night is starting to lose its power and the only way
to prevent the magic from disappearing is going to the British museum
which would be able to restore the power of the tablet back to its
glory, I will say while in some ways it closes one chapter being Larry
daily but leaves the story to continue with another.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really know how this film could have been further from the
spirit of the franchise. The ending defeated the entire purpose of the
two films that came before it. In each of the other films the main
driving goal of the plot was to save the tablet so the museum will keep
coming to life. In the first film they fight the old night guards and
race through Central Park to see that this happens. In the second film
they wage an epic battle at the Smithsonian against creatures from the
very Netherworld just to see that this happens. In the third and final
film they travel all the way to London to see that this happens....and
then just give up and decide that it doesn't matter if they come to
life or not; they're fine just being lifeless, inanimate museum
displays. If that's the case then what was the point of everything they
did before? Why not just let the old night guards have the tablet in
the first film and be done with it? 

They not only basically killed off every single character from the
franchise, but they did it for no good reason at all. If it was
supposedly so important that this Egyptian family be together (which I
find hard to care about since we don't even know these characters) why
couldn't the parents just come back to New York? They didn't even try.
They were just like "Nope, we're good being dead" when every film has
been about fighting to stay alive. I have no clue what they were
thinking here with this plot.

To make it even worse they recast the son, Nick, into this new actor
who looks nothing like the other boy who probably would be of a
somewhat comparable age so it's beyond me why they did it, but the far
worse offense than simple recasting was to change the entire
personality of the boy. For the previous two films he was a good kid,
precocious, close to his dad and loved that the museum came to live.
Now he's a lazy, back-talking punk who wants to drop out of school to
be an underground DJ having wild parties at his dad's place at 3 in the
morning and who seems to care less about the museum or any of its
inhabitants. Why rewrite and ruin a character that way for some tromped
up father/son angst that feels forced and falls terribly flat?

And to top it all off, not only was the plot severely lacking and
filled with holes and ludicrousness (like where was security when
Lancelot crashed the Hugh Jackman play?) the film wasn't even funny. I
was sitting in a packed theater and there was rarely any laughter at
all. I loved the first two films but I couldn't have felt more
different about this one. The ending where they killed everyone off was
just the cherry on top of the disdain I'd already developed for this.
In my mind, the franchise stopped at the second film which had a lovely
and perfect ending for all the characters. They should have just left
well enough alone but they got greedy to make more money where no more
story existed.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie because I am a big fan of the first and second
night at the museum- to sum it up it was a huge disappointment .
Probably 90% of the movie was completely irrelevant to the plot. I
understand when movies have irrelevant parts to give the movie some
comedy, but the irrelevant parts in this movie were not remotely funny
and I have absolutely no idea what they were thinking while writing
this. As for the other 10% of the movie that actually involved a plot-
it was the least creative plot I have ever seen anyone come up with and
also the worst conflict I have ever seen. If you enjoy making fun of
things I highly recommend watching this movie because I could go on for
hours.
<|_=00=_|>
In the third instalment of the Night at the Museum movies, the tablet
that brings the museum exhibits to life is losing it's power and to fix
it, Ben Stiller and the gang have to go visit the only person who knows
how to fix it, at the London's British Museum.

This movie was definitely more entertaining than I thought it would be.
Most of the jokes did entertain me despite at times being obvious,
although a few do fall flat. However, I did not enjoy the comedy
involving caveman Ben Stiller (thankfully, there wasn't much of it). I
think the movie would have been better without that character. The
story is straightforward as expected, but still good enough to not be
boring. 

The returning cast do a good job. Newcomer Dan Stevens as Sir Lancelot
was my favourite character and was great fun to watch. There were also
some great cameos which I did not expect and won't spoil and was
awesome.

There are some cool scenes in this movie that really pleased my inner
kid, mainly when Sir Lancelot is fighting a triceratops and a scene
involving a M.C. Esher painting along with a couple of others. I did
also like the ending. It was a bit sad when it came to their goodbyes,
especially when it came to Robin Williams'. 

Overall, it is a solid movie for kids and adults should have an alright
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember back in February 2007. I was 10 years old then. Our teachers
at school said we were going to the library. It turned out they took us
to the cinema. It was one of those surprises that you can't believe was
real. We saw the first Night at the Museum. I remember liking the
concept very much. I have always found museums fascinating, especially
the ones of Natural history. So, the film always appealed to me. I saw
it twice. 

Then in May 2009 a sequel comes out. I remember having a fun time. When
I left the cinema I was thinking: "What will happen in part 3?". Well,
5 years go by. And, a third film is ready to hit cinemas. I had to wait
until February to see it though. 

I finally got around to doing so today. It was kind of an empty cinema.
Kind of a different feeling compared to how packed it was last week
when I saw American Sniper. Anyway. I enjoyed the film. It was a good
idea to make story about what would happen if the magic ran out. At the
end though I felt really sentimental and a bit sad. The credits came up
and everyone rushed out. I wondered if the kids today would feel the
way I felt watching it. I remembered all the fun times I've had with my
friends at school. It was really nice seeing all the character again in
their full glory. The last film that made me feel this way was The
World's End. But, this one left me thinking more. 

I had completed a journey. It started out with all my friends and
school in the cinema together. And, it ended with me alone. The movie
at it's core was about moving on and saying goodbye to the past. But,
it doesn't mean the past will disappear. You'll always be able to visit
it again. You sit there watching the credits roll by and looking for a
new journey to start. There will always be things to look forward to. 

as Robin Williams would have said: Smile, my boy. It's sunrise 

I'm glad I saw all these films.
<|_=00=_|>
My Thoughts:

I have always enjoyed the Night at the Museum series. I was a volunteer
at the Air and Space Museum shortly after the movie was released, so it
was fun interacting with the visitors that came in and asked about all
the things they saw in the movie. Yes, they are not completely
accurate, but they are still fun to watch.

This time, there is something wrong with the tablet that brings the
exhibits to life and the only one that can help them out is Ankmenrah's
father, Merenkahre, played by acting great Ben Kingsley. The problem?
Merenkahre is in the British Museum.

We get to see what it is like for the exhibits when they are brought to
life for the first time and how confusing and disconcerting it can be
for them trying to figure out what is going on. We get to see this most
prominently from Sir Lancelot's (Dan Stevens's) point of view as he
helps out the New York visitors get through the museum.

Now, for all intents and purposes, this is the last Night at the Museum
movie (at least, it seems that way for Ben Stiller). However, they did
kind of set it up for Rebel Wilson who plays Tilly, a security guard at
the British Museum. I will probably get flack for this, but I hope this
isn't so. I am not a big Rebel Wilson fan. I think she is good as a
secondary actress, but I don't think she can really hold her own in the
primary role. She, like Melissa McCarthy, are one-trick ponies; they do
the same shtick over and over again and never seem to bring anything
new to the table.

This movie is not an all-time great movie, but it is a cute, funny
movie that will take your mind of the real world for 90 mins. So, this
holiday season, if you are looking for something funny to watch, you
can't go wrong with choosing a movie such as this. 

My Recommendation:

Fans of the series will enjoy this latest installment in the franchise.
Others, if you haven't seen the first two, you should and then watch
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the first Night at the Museum, the second wasn't bad,
but this one was not good. I rented this on Blu ray and found myself
fast forwarding at different times. It's just not very funny, kind of
corny with a weak plot. It does feature many cameos, but it's not
enough to save this movie. I felt like this movie was geared more to
children under the age of 12 years old. Ben Stiller just seemed like he
was going through the motions, almost like he didn't really want to be
involved with this movie. I really hope they don't make another, I
personally won't spend a penny on seeing it. I feel sorry for those who
may have spent $10 or over to see this in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
In spite of the absence of a number in the title, this is the third
(and last?) film in a franchise that I have thoroughly enjoyed for
providing inventive entertainment (imagine a fight sequence inside a MC
Escher drawing). Each movie has been based in a museum I know well and
this time we are in my home city of London at the wonderful British
Museum which means that the Elgin Marbles and other artifacts come
alive. At the heart of the franchise is Ben Stiller, a comic actor with
deceptively understated style, and this time he gets to plays two very
contrasting roles, particularly funny when his characters interact.

If there are weaknesses in this outing, they are that perhaps too many
of the original characters are involved (meaning that screen time is
spread rather thinly between them), there could have been more original
museum characters (the main one is Dan Stevens as Sir Lancelot), and it
would have been good to have more female roles (Australian Rebel Wilson
as the BM security guard is effectively the only substantive one). And,
of course, there is the sadness of seeing Robin Williams and Mickey
Rooney in their last screen roles.

All that said, this is a worthy addition to a really fun franchise
which has probably now run its course.
