
and I can say with some certainty that Jeff Nichols has a heck of a
career ahead of him.

To be frank, after your first 1000 or so IMDb reviews, you get a bit
cynical. You start to understand that, in spite of the hype, movies are
not as good as they used to be -- more like production-line
white-bread, all mapped out and pre-sold into the appropriate
distribution channels before the first viewer ever even gets a look --
and that in the same time period, TV has come to surpass film in terms
of quality and entertainment value.

And then every now and then you get a film like Midnight Special and
for a brief moment you start to think this medium might someday
recapture its glory days.

I am not going to tell the story or do anything which will diminish
your experience, should you choose to see this film.

I will simply say that, if you believe the primary goal of a movie is
to hold your interest and entertain, this one does the job from the
first frame to the closing credits.

Boy is that refreshing! 

The actors -- not name actors -- were excellent.

The special effects were mind-boggling, especially for an indie.

The script breaks (or bends) some rules of conventional narrative but
otherwise is so tight you could use it for a drum solo.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a beautifully filmed movie, with outstanding photography and
good acting. The way the story is delivered is also very smart: the
start creates quite a lot of intrigue and mystery as you don't really
understand what is happening, and where the whole thing will go. Then
the ending solves beautifully these tensions, it is quite an inspiring
and even almost poetic finale, with very sleek shots of the extra
world. So I enjoyed quite a lot this movie, though at the end I thought
the story was a bit too light, I walked away with the feeling that
there were quite a few questions left open and that I would have wanted
to know more....like when you finish a dinner and you're still
hungry....
<|_=00=_|>
It's partially the casting, partially the direction sinking this film.
Mostly it's a script cobbed together from "ET," "Starman," a dash of
"CE3K," the Superman legend, "Village of the Damned," and generic
child-in-jeopardy tale. That's the most amazing, and disappointing,
aspect of "Midnight Special" - that the creative and original Jeff
Nichols wrote a shamefully derivative script filled with plot holes
large enough to fly a mothership through.

After a compelling first act, "Midnight Special" turns into a boring
chase/race-against-time story of an extraordinary, luminous boy with
'powers and abilities far beyond that of mortal men' sought by the Feds
and a cultish church who venerate him because he speaks coordinates in
tongues. This boy comes from "a world-on-world" whose inhabitants watch
over us. (Given the state of the world, they're doing a crappy job.)
The explanation tracks more like angels from another dimension than
aliens.

The boy, played by Jaeden Lieberher, fails to create sympathy through
all the chaos. The wonderful Kirsten Dunst has never been more wasted
in a placeholder role as the boy's mom. Shannon is his hulking father.
Edgerton only serviceable as a tag along State Trooper. They dodge
bullets on a lumbering path to specific Florida coordinates where the
boy has a date with destiny; the merging of dimension X and our pitiful
dimension. Other luminous beings spirit the boy away and POOF - the
convergence disappears. Big deal! A most unsatisfying and anticlimactic
end that does not inspire the wonder the special effects technicians
hoped it would despite Mom's mugging at the otherworldly architecture.

It might occur this is a Jesus allegory with a 'birth' of a messiah
from common parents. There's not a glimmer of that (save some 'fire
from Heaven'). Early on, there was promise of social commentary about
our over-surveilled lives. Nope. That's not present either. Also
lacking, commentary about people steeping in religious fervor to fill
absences in themselves. The church members, including Sam Shepherd, are
caricatures. 

"Midnight Special" adds neither subtext nor exposition to a story
begging for some. Even the title derived from the song doesn't track.
"Let the Midnight Special shine a light on me." Okay, he did shine
light, but the Feds - after everyone within a hundred mile radius sees
the other world - still prosecute and jail Dad and the Trooper. That
we're deaf, dumb and blind in a mysterious Universe is not a lot to be
left with after two hours.

Too much mystery ruins a film - the slight flash of light in Dad's eyes
at fade out an example. Without context, too much mystery makes
"Midnight Special" an uncooked, epic misfire in this dimension or any
other. Give it a pass.
<|_=00=_|>
This film really came out of nowhere for me, as a comment by a stranger
I overheard in a bar drew me to this, and thank you nameless stranger
with impeccable taste! This is one of those sci-fi flicks that comes
along every once in a while that actually has something to say without
overuse of CGI and genre tropes.

I knew almost nothing about Midnight Special going in other than said
comment, and I highly recommend you try to do the same. Therefore I
will be as brief as possible to avoid spoilers.

Roy (Michael Shannon) is on the run with his 8 year old son Alden
(Jaeden Lieberher) from a religious cult that worships the boy as some
sort of messiah. Also in pursuit are the FBI and NSA, who are
investigating several strange phenomena connected with the child. Roy
enlists childhood friend Lucas (Joel Edgerton) to help them get to a
specific location on a specific date, the reasons for which are unclear
but may involve some sort of otherworldly or cataclysmic event.

The comparisons with Starman (1984) and Close Encounters of the Third
Kind (1977) are apt, but this is very definitely a different movie
altogether.

The actors are uniformly excellent, especially Michael Shannon, who
gives another intense and believable performance as a man who would do
anything for his son. 

A bit has been made out of how the movie ends, but personally I found
it a powerful emotional pay-off that I could feel in my chest, possibly
due to the nostalgic feeling this film evokes.

In conclusion, go see it. A thought provoking sci-fi drama with a story
to tell. A good one at that.
<|_=00=_|>
With Midnight Special, Jeff Nichols enters the pantheon of those
nostalgic American filmmakers armed with their lens flares, Pandora's
boxes and deeply sentimental reasons, driven by a protective father
figure and a maternal relationship to the plot itself.

Lately, Christopher Nolan's Interstellar walked on the same path, and
in many ways Midnight Special strangely looks like Interstellar.
There's always the same contrast between gigantic and local
stakes/issues that can already be found in Spielberg's filmography : on
one side, humanity's fate is at stake, supervised by an omnipotent
government, and on the other side it is (and perhaps only) a "family
affair". 

David Wingo's soundtrack is electrifying, the script is intelligent
enough for not telling us the whole plot and characters' background in
a few lines of dialogue, and despite a half-hearted performance by
Michael Shannon, who still shines in its restraint, and some facilities
in scriptwriting approaching the end of the film, Midnight Special is
so perfectly controlled that it would be difficult to get out of the
theater unscathed.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahoy. 

A solid movie, good casting good acting and the premise of a good
story, some lovely shots and interesting ideas.

However it sits on the line of Jesus this is becoming boring and i'll
wait and see how it pans out.

Pans out I should have left, not much story for the audience to stick
with and so many subtle gestures and nods between cast members the
tread is very very thin.

The idea is interesting enough a boy with unknown special powers that
the US Gov thinks they can capture him and use him as a weapon, but no
reason as to why they think this.

The decoding of Gov transmissions via satellites to find a location is
neither explained or has any real tangible reason to be in such a
location as others had been shown parts of the layered on civilization
before and not at the special location.

Two hours of not really knowing what the kids power or purpose was all
he does some nodding/longing and barley 2 paragraphs of dialogue,
stares and vanishes off into this other world he is part of.

There is some average CGI to show off this world for about 60 seconds
and SLAM the end.

No reason as to why he needs to go / why he was afraid of day light /
why the US wanted him as a weapon.

An E.T idea in principle for the modern day but not very exciting and
leaves all questions unanswered, if there is to be a sequel I won't be
spending my money on it again. . . 

Average movie for a rainy day on rental, worth the cinema price NO,
worth the price of a DVD possibly.
<|_=00=_|>
Midnight Special is a modern day science fiction film with a very old
school feel running through its veins. Jeff Nichols has made it no
secret that classic sci-fi films such as Close Encounters of the Third
Kind are inspirations for his film however, I find the fact that his
relationship with his own son was used as an inspiration too, much more
intriguing.

Alton (Jaeden Lieberher) is an eight-year-old boy who possesses
otherworldly powers. When his father, Roy (Michael Shannon), takes his
son and flees from a religious cult, they must travel across the
country to an undisclosed location on a specific date, during which a
celestial and possibly world-changing event may occur.

Mystery is a strong point for Midnight Special, the entire mystery
surrounding Alton's powers, what will happen on that specific date and
the reason a religious cult want him back, all playing a part in making
the story such a captivating one. Then comes the film's climactic
moment. We get answers, but they end up ruining some of the mystery
that made what came before so good. Less is more definitely sprung to
mind as it all unfolded.

The story, written by Jeff Nichols, is a very good one and at the heart
of that story is a rather beautiful relationship between a father and
son. It adds another layer to the film rather than it just being a
standard story about people on the run, and as mentioned earlier, it
really feels like a personal film from Nichols. Not saying that his son
has special powers though, so don't think that.

In a rather short directorial career, Nichols has made quite a name for
himself and Midnight Special should further his reputation. It's a very
well made film but if there was one thing that stopped it from being
great, it was the pacing. Unfortunately, this film dragged itself out
through a few scenes and it really bugged me.

I cannot fault the film for its performances mind. Michael Shannon
possesses such a magnetic screen presence, you just can't take your
eyes off him and Joel Edgerton certainly makes his presence felt, even
if his role remains a little unexplained. Kirsten Dunst and Adam Driver
offer good support and Jaeden Lieberher is rather good as Alton. 

It may be that, in time, I appreciate Midnight Special more however, my
initial experience warrants me to say that it's not the special film I
was hoping for.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost, Jeff Nichols is quickly becoming one of my
favourite directors working today, and I honestly believe that his
movies have increasingly become better.

Midnight Special starts off in the middle of the plot, and does not
rely on exposition. This movie treats its audience with respect and
allows them to piece together the reasons and events throughout the
progression of the film. It gives just enough detail in order to
understand but not too little to have no idea what is going on. We are
put in the same position as the characters in this movie - where we
know just as much as they do about the origin and extent of the child's
powers. Although the ending is a twist that many probably do not
understand, it feels deserved and does not feel out of place in the
context of the movie; however, the characters probably think it is out
of place, but that is because they do not have the outsider perspective
that the audience does. In terms of the characters, Michael Shannon's
character does feel like a father who would genuinely do this for his
son (especially because he may feel as though he is making up for lost
time) and the other characters are very enjoyable and feel necessary to
the movie. The atmosphere and feel of the movie is amazing, and even
though the plot itself sounds absurd - a father and son are on the run
from religious extremists because the son possesses special powers -
but it is much more than that and feels believable in its execution.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the earlier reviews, I almost wonder if I saw a different
version of this movie! The story line was overly grandiose, took way
too long to develop, and the movie would have redeemed itself in my
mind only with a super profound ending ... which it did not have.

The plot touched all the hot buttons: supernatural abilities, check!
government conspiracy, check! one "good guy" amongst the bad gov't
guys, check! religious extremists who don't understand the profound
nature of the supernatural skill, check! But the narrative couldn't
credibly tie it all together.

I agree with some of the prior comments on beautiful photography and
great special effects, but way too much was left unexplained and what
was explained was not, in my mind, very special at all. I left the
theatre really disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
My spoilers are necessary to make my point.

This movie leaves a heck of a lot of information out.

Firstly, the movie seems to start in the middle of an ongoing story. 

You're left confused for at least the first fifteen minutes.

Once you get enough information to realize finally what's going on, the
rest of it doesn't work.

Yeah. It's a kid with special powers. Mind boggling powers. Not of this
Earth powers.

His biological mother and father Roy and Sarah, go on the run with him
being chased by a crazy fanatical religious group and of course the
government. 

The kid tells his parents he is from another planet and he does not
belong here. He has to be at a certain place at a certain time. 

We, being a smart audience, figure the kid needs to be there, cause his
race of alien relatives, will be picking him up at this location.

Unfortunately, the government figures out where the location is too and
is only one step behind them at each and every turn.

This is why the movie did not work (I mean if the lack of answers and
information didn't already do you in).

If the kid is from another planet, has powers and while looks human,
isn't, HOW are those two his biological parents?

How do two people from Earth, give birth to an alien kid from another
planet?

No. We are not supposed to come to our conclusions and figure it out in
our heads. It's OK if some movies leave a smidge to the imagination,
but when you make a scenario completely impossible, it doesn't mesh. If
there's a big story about how two human from Earth gave birth to an
alien kid, you cannot leave all of that out of a story. It's too much.

The way they did this makes it sound like aliens messed with human
creation and implanted their own DNA into the womb of a human here on
Earth.

In the movie the kid says "they've been watching us for a long time."

Viewers like a beginning, a middle and an end.

Bringing people into a story where you feel like you missed the first
half hour, isn't pleasant. Confusion is no fun.

Having dad's, mom's and alien kids who couldn't possibly be related,
but are, doesn't work.

Sorry. While this flick was somewhat interesting, I did not like the
format, or the lack of information. Way too much was missing.

Did. Not. Work.
