
This is one of the most satisfying movies I have ever seen! Then again,
I am a bit biased since I helped back the movie on Kickstarter.

I was a huge fan of the show when it was on the air and was ecstatic to
hear about the movie. It's been almost a year and we finally have it!
It was well worth the wait and the contribution to the Kickstarter
campaign.

For the first few minutes of the movie, there is a slight recap of the
TV show featuring clips with a voice over by Veronica Mars. This is
used not only as an introductory piece for new watchers but also a walk
down memory lane for the fans.

As expected, there were plenty of "inside jokes" that were casually
thrown out in dialog. What was brilliant, though, was the fact that
they weren't obvious. They blended with normal conversation and were
just added bonuses for the fans and for new watchers it was just
another example of how great the dialog was. You don't need any
background information about the show to watch this, you won't be left
in the dark with the inside jokes.

The movie is self-contained but leaves space for a sequel in one form
or another. Characters grow and change during the movie, so it's not
just a movie to have a movie.

Characters from the show are brought back but not in a pushy sort of
way. It is a large cast but everyone has a proper place. You don't have
anybody from the show return for a only second, everyone gets good face
time without it being overwhelmed.

Overall, I highly recommend this move to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Very well done! This is the most unabashed Fan-Service film I've seen
since Serenity...and I daresay, it caters to its fans even more than
Serenity did. 

In fact, my biggest complaint about this movie is that it might cater
too much to fans, leaving newcomers in the dark. The movie re-
introduces you to Veronica, but virtually everyone else gets no
exposition and no character development (beyond what you'd see in a
typical episode, that is). 

For fans of the show, this movie is a gift. You basically get a new
episode of the TV show here- a bottle episode that's roughly 100
minutes long.

There were a few differences- namely, I didn't remember the show being
this funny. Veronica always had a good sense of humor, as did her dad,
but in this movie there were a surprising amount of laughs. 

Also, the mystery isn't as deep as the full season one and two story
lines (obviously). What's worse, I don't think the resolution of the
mystery has that same "I should have seen it all along!" genius that
made seasons 1 and 2 so special. I'd say the plot is comparable to one
of the mini-arcs from season 3. 

Lastly, as good as this movie is, it still doesn't exceed (or even
meet) what the show already did at the top of its game. The emotional
highs and lows are the same old thing as before, and the plot isn't
nearly as neatly connected. I'd say I rate the movie as slightly above
season 3, but not as good as seasons 1 or 2. 

But what the Hell, you get to see Veronica work again, and it's too
much fun to pass up!

Fans must see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I've opted to go spoiler-free in this review because ultimately, I'm
not writing to persuade existing fans. We're Marshmallows; we've
already planned out how to see this film. No, I'm talking to the
Kristen Bell fan who maybe saw an episode or two, or the complete
Veronica Mars virgin mulling it over.

The Kickstarter element of this film not only established that Warner
was dead wrong about a lack of interest in this film, but it also added
a further level of creative obligation for writer Rob Thomas. Fans paid
for the film, and with that came certain expectations about its plot.
Let's get this out of the way now: Thomas delivers the film that fans
deserve, without skimping on the mystery element. Lingering questions
from the series are answered (some blatantly, some subtly). Beloved
characters are back, including the smaller roles that made the series
memorable (Deputy Sacks; Leo D'Amato; Corny).

Basic plot round-up: 9 years after the events of the series, Veronica
has moved to New York City and is finished law school, having run from
Neptune after her first year of college. She's reunited with old
boyfriend Piz and they're now shacked up. On the verge of her first
major law job, Veronica learns that her high school classmate (now a
singer) has been murdered and her ex, Logan is being blamed. Cue Logan
calling Veronica, as so many have over the years. What begins as a
friendly "weed out the bad lawyers" favor quickly becomes a mystery
Veronica simply can't turn away from -- one that takes her all the way
back to those high school years she's wanted to forget. Present clashes
hard with past as Veronica tries to exonerate Logan while wrestling
with the woman she's become versus the woman she once was.

One of the strong points of the film is dialogue. Characters feel true
to themselves. The quips and banter that defined the Keith-Veronica
dynamic are in full effect. The film is peppered with in-jokes and
self-referential giggles that flow in conversation and don't confuse
those not in the know (mentions of Kickstarter and the FBI earned
particularly loud chuckles in the theatre). The dialogue of Veronica
Mars was always one of its highlights, and it was a happy homecoming.

As to the mystery of the film, it's more layered than a standard
episode without becoming so tangled as to be deterring for a new viewer
with no background knowledge of the show. For those who did see the
series, I liken it to the complexity of the Dean O'Dell case,
streamlined due to the lack of "case of the week" action getting in the
way. Although, don't be fooled: the major mystery isn't the only action
the Mars family sees in the film. That said, if you're used to Thomas'
style, you will probably spot the evildoer fairly readily if you're
actively looking for clues along the way, but the final reveal of the
motive will still be a surprise. For fans of the series, it's the
little details that make the mystery particularly special.

Cameos are used to hilarious effect. My favourite was Dax Shepard,
although several stood out along the way.

For newcomers to the world of Neptune, the film is a great way to dive
in and savour the seedy, noir world. For those beaming with Pirate
Pride, it's a worthy successor to the series and a real reunion. My
only gripe is insufficient time with Wallace, Mac and Weevil, but I do
understand that budget played a role in that and firmly blame Warner
for it.

A long time ago, we used to be friends... and the cast has brought it
on.

(Word to the wise: there are three very good reasons to stick it out
through the entire credits, especially if you are a fellow Backer.)
<|_=00=_|>
... but 9 / 10 for the fans that love the series.

I grew up with all 3 seasons. However, while seasons 1 & 2 were
brilliant, season 3 sucked to high heaven. The movie is definitely just
for those that really missed the characters and just needed a fresh 107
minutes of Veronica.

The story offered isn't exactly water tight, but if you're a true
Veronica Mars fan you will overlook the odd logical glitch in the
story.

One thing that gave me a pleasant surprise was that it's still
jaw-dropping amazing to look at Kristen Bell. Her cute and sexy
voice/smile/attitude just makes you forget about some of the truly
crappy storytelling in the movie.

That the movie has a rating of 7,8 (03/20/2014) doesn't surprise me.
This is just purely a hardcore fan rating.

Bottom line: Veronica Mars fans will get what they deserve.
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite upset and disappointed when the series was canceled back in
2004. It was one of my favorite shows, and I fervently believed (and
still fervently believe) that it was canceled well before it should
have been. When I heard that a movie was being made, I immediately
became one of its many Kickstarter backers. Now, the movie is a
reality, and I am happy to say that Rob and his cast and crew did not
disappoint. The movie embodies everything that made the series as great
as it was. Wit, sarcasm and noir story-lines abound, giving this the
feel of a Veronica Mars season finale episode (without a cliffhanger).
The reason I say that it is bittersweet, is because the movie is a
reminder of what should have been, and, while watching the movie, I
could not help but feel those pangs of sadness that I felt when the
series was canceled. This was ameliorated, however, by the satisfaction
I felt with the final product. It is my sincere hope that this could be
the genesis of a new age for Veronica Mars resulting in more movies, or
even another run of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
Veronica Mars is back! She thought she had escaped Neptune, California
for the calmer, grown-up world of New York City; she thought she had
escaped her bad boy past for the calmer, drama-less college boyfriend,
Piz; but then they pulled her right back in. Even after nine years, one
phone call from Logan Echolls is all it took; after all, their love is
epic. It can span years and continents, lives ruined and bloodshed. 

It's probably not a good idea to answer a phone call from the son of a
Hollywood actor who had murdered his girlfriend, the son of a Hollywood
wife who jumped off a bridge, and has a penchant for getting himself
accused of murder. But Jason Dohring plays Logan Echolls. One of the
most promising actors to come out of TV who has still not "made it", he
has a way with words and a charisma which evokes a passion that makes
otherwise good girls fall for bad boys.

Luckily for us, unfortunately for Veronica, Logan's most recent murder
charge coincides with her high school reunion, and it reunites us with
all the Neptune High characters we loved to hate (Madison Sinclair, Gia
Goodman), everybody we loved to love (Weevil, Wallace) and everybody we
forgot how much we loved (Mr. Clemmons, Corny). It's been eight years
since we've last seen most of these people. Some actors didn't change
(Jason Dohring), some characters didn't change (Dick Casablancas), and
some scenes didn't change. And those were the great parts. Veronica
tricking the Sheriff again, Veronica flirting with a certain Deputy
with a pizza in hand again, and Keith scolding his number one daughter
again were hilarious.

It can be a bit weird going from the small screen to the big screen. A
different actor playing the same character doesn't help and old
characters that we never actually met doesn't help either. Logan
wearing the Navy dress whites seemed a joke at first, and then when it
turned out to not be a joke, I was still waiting for the joke to play
out. The jokes came when Veronica finally made it to the reunion and
when Dick was helping Veronica help Logan. But then it got dark, and
they pulled me right back in.

The comedy is primarily inside jokes, and yes it is very funny, but
probably not hilarious to non-fans. The plot can be easily followed by
anyone, and we and Veronica set out to solve who really murdered
Logan's pop-star girlfriend. Well, actually, Veronica sets out to solve
the crime. One of the biggest differences between the TV version and
the movie is that we don't get 20 episodes worth of clues to solve it
ourselves. We just get to sit back and watch Veronica get pulled back
to the Hellmouth that is Neptune, California.
<|_=00=_|>
Rob (and Diane) would seem to have had a difficult task in writing
this. How to tie two threads together, over such a huge jump in time,
how to craft a plot that accounted for things like the season four
trailer, and how to make it all feel seamless. I recently re-watched
all three seasons on Amazon, and I can only say that when I watched the
movie, I felt like I was "home", and that all that lost time just
didn't exist.

I can't imagine anyone who enjoyed the series, not fully enjoying this
effort (and wishing that it would somehow "go on"). I would hope that
it would have the potential of pulling in a larger audience, but that
is more difficult to judge, having been a fan to begin with. I thought
the series was super well written, many notches above a lot of other TV
dribble, and had a killer cast to boot, so I was always amazed that it
didn't get the numbers that one would have expected.

As with the series, the script is dripping with wit, both from
Veronica, and also (as others have already mentioned) in references to
events from the series. Newcomers might not pick up on some of it, but
they would also not be distracted by any if it either. Those
referential bits simply provide a few more "smile moments" for the rest
of us, but are not required to follow or enjoy the story.

If you get off on action movies, with dialog written for 10-year olds,
then you probably need to skip this film. If you enjoy well crafted
scripts, with intelligent dialog, and with a love triangle and murder
mystery thrown in to drive the plot, then even if you never watched the
series, I would expect that you would still enjoy this film. You might
even get hooked enough to find yourself streaming the series (all in
HD, by the way), to find out what you missed, the first time around.

For the everyone else, who's simply been in "can't wait" mode for the
last year, wondering if this great, ensemble cast could actually pull
this off, and "be" those characters that you have missed. The answer is
a resounding "yes".
<|_=00=_|>
Excuse the use of the Sade song title, but it really sums up my
feelings about this film. I wanted to like it, I really did. I liked
the TV show, and even contributed to the Kickstarter campaign. I'm not
sure what I expected, but what we got was basically a 2 hour TV reunion
show (2 hours if you had commercials, the film is only 105 minutes).

In 10 years, the residents of Jupiter have gotten older, but not
smarter or wiser. And, sadly, even though all of the actors expressed
great enthusiasm for the project, they all seem a little tired. They're
happy for the pay checks, but in the end, they are rehashing the same
characters, with the same emotions and the same actions as 10 years
ago. Kristen Bell always brought that world-weary sense of cynicism to
Veronica Mars, even when she was playing a high school detective. Now
she just seems weary. I would much rather watch her in 'House of Lies',
where that more grown up cynicism shines.

Bottom line is we should all have just moved on, and let our memories
of the TV show remain intact. This was not an elegant ending of a good
show, but a sad reminder of what we once liked and enjoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
When I say this is for fans only, I don't mean that if you are
unfamiliar with the TV series you will be lost watching this. I wasn't
a fan of the series and I was able to follow the movie fine. There are
plenty of characters and moments that seem to serve no purpose other
than (I assume) to please the show's fans, but none of these really get
in the way of the plot. I came into this film with no expectations or
baggage. I like Kristen Bell and I was willing to give the movie a
shot, despite my never being able to get into the show when it was on
the air. What I will say about the movie is that if you liked the
series, I see no reason why you won't like this. If you didn't like the
series (I didn't), then this will probably be a very unpleasant movie
viewing experience for you because it really is like a big-screen
version of the show. If you have never seen the show, then read on.

The pace is excruciatingly slow and I lost interest more than once. I
was quickly reminded of why the show never clicked for me. It's like
Buffy without the action, romance, or humor (to say nothing of
monsters). Veronica Mars does try to have some of those things,
particularly what is supposed to pass for humor. But it's very weak.
The kind of stuff you would need a laugh track for. The only time I
laughed was with the James Franco cameo. I couldn't for the life of me
see what everyone else in the film was talking about regarding this
Logan character, played by Jason Dohring. This lanky, rubber-faced
individual seems better-suited to playing the nerdy best friend than
the handsome "bad boy." There is also no chemistry between Dohring and
Kristen Bell. There we have one of many divides that I, as someone not
an avid devotee of Veronica Mars, will never be able to cross. The
biggest divide is that I found the main character unlikable and
obnoxious. Her sneering and condescending tone towards everybody but a
select few of her closest friends makes me wonder what anyone ever saw
appealing in this character. Thankfully, in her post-Mars career,
Kristen Bell has been allowed to do roles that showcased her charm and
personality better than this.

As someone who is a fan of actual old-school detective and film noir
stories, of which Veronica Mars is supposedly a modernization of, I
find nothing of interest here on that front. There is no atmosphere, no
snappy dialogue, no unique or memorable characters. Veronica Mars just
plods along at a steady pace, never rising or falling significantly,
never building momentum to anything. When the moment comes for the
mystery to be solved and the killer(s) apprehended, it comes with a
whimper not a bang. There is a distinct lack of style or substance to
this world of Veronica Mars that makes it very clear why the TV series
was not more successful and why it needed fans to pay for this movie to
be made.
<|_=00=_|>
First of I used to love watching the veronica mars show, it was totally
OK afternoon entertainment, so I was kind of enthusiastic when I heard
they were making a movie of the show. But now that I've seen it the
finished work, I'm glad I didn't help crowd fund it.

The on screen chemistry between the characters and the audience is
gone(at least for me), and most of the acting felt forced. I kind of
got the impression, that the actors had started asking them self if
this movie really was such a good idea?

There were no real sense of mystery in the movie, you knew right off
the bat who the suspects were, and that they were guilty. Also there
was no feeling of urgency or that Logan was about to get thrown in
jail. It just felt like a really long episode with no highlights. I
didn't get any sympathy for the characters. Someone you don't know
squat about dies and Logan is blamed The whole thing with Logan being a
marine pilot(he states him self that he is/was in the jag corps in the
movie, but later they talk about him flying planes). Doesn't seem
believable at all It seem like they have tried really hard, to come up
with the most unlikely career choices they could find. Also what
happened to the sassy tomboyish Veronica mars? Her boobs has definitely
gotten bigger, and everything she walks around in, is mostly glued to
her body.

******warning spoilers**** Also the whole Logan and Veronica romance
just felt really old and used up. They were to much on and off in the
series, so using the same cliché over again just felt cheep. In the
show Logan was a useful side character and love interest for Veronica,
mostly, because he's family was part of the key to the big mystery
about her best friend death. But in the movie, they haven't really
given him enough meat on the bone to work with, so he mostly walks
around, as the usually sullen looking spoiled rich kid, we used to know
in the series.

The whole blast from the past: "I need your help veronica", phone call,
was a bit too stupid for me to swallow. The guy is the richest person
in Neptune, yet he gonna hire and ex girlfriend to investigate if he is
guilty in the murder he is being accused of? C'mon how dumb do you
think the fans are? They're showing all their cards right there. And a
suspected murderer and paparazzi target, would not likely show up in
the airport, in the screaming white dress uniform of the marine corps,
and at the same time trying to avoid the attention of the paparazzi,
those two things just don't match.

All in all It just felt like a 120min episode with out any highlights
