
For the sake of film criticism, I will pretend that I watched the film
without the political maelstrom that has raised it to a level of
interest that it would otherwise never have attained.

This is the typical mass produced, lowbrow, comedy that Hollywood
cranks out to appeal to 15-year-old boys. There are a few slapstick
laughs in the tradition of the Three Stooges that break the monotony. I
would not elevate the film to the level of a satire as that would imply
that there was some intelligent thought behind it. There is not. All
the humor, both physical and verbal, is completely obvious. It will not
go down in history as one of the great comedies, which is probably what
upset Kim Jung Un the most.

The attempts to make political observations are all based on time-worn
points (people are starving, Kim is not a god). The sections that imply
Kim has psychological problems may be more irritating to the regime.
Most of the attempted humor deals with Kim fighting his homophobia and
dealing with a father who gave him little support.

There is no need to comment on the acting as there really is none. No
one will win an Oscar nomination here. The story is predictable: You
can guess what will happen before you begin watching it. It's the kind
of film you watch to see a few gags and, maybe, get a few laughs. They
will be very few, indeed, unless you are 15 or under. However, knowing
the media attention that this film has received, it is unlikely a poor
review will stop anyone from watching it. Just remember, I warned you.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, where do we start with this one? Obviously I watched this film
knowing what kind of attention had been drawn to it, from crazy Korean
hackers, terrorists threatening to bomb theatres to the US president
himself. I really hoped that after all the hype it would live up to
expectations. And it failed miserably. Cheap humour, jokes and
dialogues below criticism most of the time, acting...well, what kind of
acting would you expect if the script is not there, the list goes on.
Finally, very predictable and flat story, with a major twist easy
enough to predict for a 10-year old. But worst of all - the rating.
Have you people lost your marbles?! I honestly wanted to give it a 4/10
and before I went on IMDb I was expecting it to be overrated at, say
6/10, but well over 8?! And we're talking over 70 000 votes! This is an
insult to cinematography and any intelligent viewer alike that such a
piece of garbage should get a score of 8+. It's just unreal. Therefore
I'm giving it a 1/10 in a hope that the rating will be quickly brought
down to where it actually belongs. It's amazing that only because the
film has a political nature, people are willing to rate it so high.
Rate it for what it is, don't fool other people into paying to actually
see this.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly I was very interested in watching this movie when I saw the
trailer however almost 45 min into it I hadn't even cracked a smile. I
expected a lot more from this film, especially being a big fan of seth
and franco. This movie has a few puns here an there but overall a
terrible movie, expect garbage. If it hadn't been for all the
controversy surrounded around it I'm sure it would've gotten mediocre
reviews all around. I honestly don't understand the 9+ stars from some
reviewers, it's satire but not comedically well written in any sense.
Save yourself the trouble, don't bother watching it. Seth and Franco
gave a good performance but the movie had a lame plot and subpar lines.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise and subject for this movie gave the writers the opportunity
for an entertaining future cult film. It could have been an
entertaining political satire, the possibilities were endless.
Additionally the media attention could have made for a legendary movie.
Alas, no such luck. Lazy writing turned this film into a waste of a
good afternoon. The entire film consists of forced situations,
stupidity and shock value humour. Forced situations; When done smoothly
situational humour can be very entertaining, but here the writers seem
to have been too lazy to set up each situation smoothly. Instead they
just force each situation into existence. Full retard; Some stupidity
can often be humorous, but never go full retard. Here the main
character Dave here cannot recognize a tiger, and describes it as "a
strange big stripy orange dog". Apparently that's supposed to be funny.
Shock value humour; Shock value is seldom entertaining, and it's a
hallmark of lazy writing. When Dave isn't "going full retard" he is
yelling profanities like how his genitals smell like guacamole. Aides
from these themes there is nothing humorous in this flick. Save your
time and money, watch something else.
<|_=00=_|>
The Interview has created a lot of crazy rumors and a lot of things
have been making this movie one of the biggest happenings this year. A
lot of speculations were made when Sony got hacked and they suspected
that North Korea was behind it. This generated a lot of interest for
the movie and people were talking about it over and over again. So,
after several threats they decided to pull the movie from all theaters.
Later on, they decided to release it for streaming purposes, and that's
how we finally got to watch the hard work that was put into The
Interview.

Let's get to the IMDb rating first; they are obviously fakes and there
are even people on 4chan telling everyone to rate the movie a 10. This
is really just to give the creators of the movie the support and love
they need after suffering this sad conflict. Also, it is a great
opportunity to actually show movie distribution companies that putting
movies earlier to watch at home too streaming, WHILE running in cinema
will generate A LOT of money. 

I got the opportunity to watch this, and I figured, what the heck, it's
only 5,99 USD, so why not give it a shot, since everybody is talking
about this film. Honest opinion now, a lot of reviews here are fake, by
people who has NOT seen the movie. So here's your opportunity to
actually read an HONEST review.

The movie is in no way perfect by all means, but it does have it's
surprisingly funny and shocking moments. Yes, the movie is overloaded
with toilet humor and profanity, but it does not necessarily make it a
bad movie. I found a lot of the jokes mildly amusing and I chuckled
through almost the whole movie with some laugh out loud-moments too.
The chemistry between Franco and Rogen is perfect and they always work
well together when it comes to acting. The story has set a goal in
movie history, and Rogen actually had the ba lls to mock a world
leader. I adore Seth's hard work into this movie and I adore everyone
else who were part of this project. It's a shame that people get so
butt-hurt over a f****nag comedy film. While skeptical about the movie
itself, seeing as Rogen's humor is childish and contains a lot of
toilet humor and continuous jokes, I found myself enjoying the whole
film. The script was very well written, the characters felt real and it
had the perfect blend of humor, action and drama. (and a little bit of
romance, too) I found both Franco's and Rogen's performance to be
flawless and the chemistry they have on screen is wonderful, making
this a very believable film. However, I found Franco's character to be
a little annoying, but I guess that's what they aimed for. Franco's
character felt a little flawed because at one moment, he acted like he
was retarded, and then the other second he's starting to act like he's
some kind of Sherlock Holmes. This was a minor problem to me, but I
kind of wish that they would have worked on Franco's character a little
more and made him to be more believable, in my honest opinion he was
annoyingly stupid and almost too stupid, even though that was what they
were aiming for. They made Seth's character seem so much more
intelligent than Franco. I have no idea what they were trying to do but
in my personal opinion it always bothered me.

The scenes where Franco got to meet Kim Jong Un were truly amazing, but
at the same time, quite awkward. Even though Kim is the bad guy, you
couldn't help but feel bad for him. They actually made him a
misunderstood individual, just like Franco's character, and I found
that to be very funny and clever. As for the actor playing Kim, he does
an amazing job and he does not waste any of his acting talents. You
actually believe him as a person and that makes the movie a sh*t load
better. 

I do not want to spoil the movie for you, but what I can tell you is
that this surely is worth a watch at home. I would not have been
pleased if it was a theatrical film, but if you're just looking for a
funny film, with lots of shock humor, and Rogen humor screaming all
over it, this is your choice. Turn of your brain, maybe take a beer and
enjoy the movie as it is. 

Summary: The Interview was a pleasant surprise with believable
character development, an interesting plot that only gets better after
the second half, with plenty of toilet humor and gags that do not fail
to amuse. This will most likely be the most anticipated movie of the
year, or at least of 2015, causing the trouble it did, making more
people interested in what made this movie so threatening and offensive
to North Koreans. Sit down, grab a beer and enjoy. It is a movie that
doesn't take itself seriously, meaning you should not take it
seriously. It is a great effort from both Rogen and Franco, and I
recommend this film to everyone who can actually take a joke AND has a
sense of humor, especially those who likes the type of humor Rogen has
been featuring these past years.

The movie deserves a strong 7 out of 10. Hopefully, the fake ratings
will be reset and The Interview will have an average rating of about
7-8.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw The Interview in a screening around April 2014. This was an
in-production screening so much of the music and graphics were not yet
complete, but the filming/sequencing/editing was complete.

It's honestly just another ridiculous Seth Rogen comedy. Rogen and
Franco are portrayed as American idiots who can't do anything right,
much less pull off an assassination attempt on Kim Jung Un when they
are tasked to do so after scoring an exclusive interview with Franco
(for whom the North Koreans are huge fans).

They fly to NK and get pampered by Kim Jong Un and his generals.
Several times the Americans get "ready" to pull off the assassination
but keep making mistakes (such as losing their assassination "device",
or almost killing themselves in the process) to the frustration of the
CIA.

Eventually a "senior official" of Kim Jung Un's finds out what they're
up to and agree to help with the assassination attempt. This leads to a
series of ridiculous action scenes and random buildings getting blown
up, Rogen/Franco driving a tank in an attempt to escape NK, and Un
himself leading a an attempt to stop the Americans from escaping.

If this movie didn't stir up so much real-life political controversy,
basically no one would be talking about it a day after walking out of
theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has been made to entertain 12-15 year old. It's not very
good. Most of the jokes miss and the story isn't very good either. Seth
Rogan and James Franco are wasted on this film.

I was cringing all the way through it. The jokes are totally infantile
and I can't remember laughing at any of them.

This movie is best avoided. Unless of course you're under 15 years of
age.

I've given it 1/10.

Yes, it's truly awful.

The publicity surrounding the movie mad me watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading some of these reviews and I find myself looking for a pair of
pliers to help some of these people remove the stick out of their ass.
To note, I only made an account for this review because I was afraid
some people may get the wrong idea about this movie. No, it will not
win an Oscar, no it will not have an Oscar winning actor. Was Chevy
Chase, Chris Farley, Eddie Murray, Chris Rock, Adam Sandler, Bill
Murray, Mike Myers, Will ferrel did a any of them win an Oscar? No,
however were their movies not one of the funniest of their time?
Exactly. Seth and James will not win an Oscar because the committee
doesn't rate comical aspects. However this movie is hilarious. Without
being one of the "typical" comedy type movies that have come out
recently. It's different comical aspects then what has been common in
movie cinema in the past year. Obviously it's a comedy, and in the
category of comedy movies it will rank as one of the higher ones. When
you watch this movie you expect that. It's not a Beautiful Mind or
Titanic. It's a comedy, and a damn funny one at that. When you watch a
comedy you want to laugh, and this movie will make you laugh. End of
story. Please don't listen to those who critique this movie as if it is
a nominees for a best movie award.
<|_=00=_|>
-The Interview, maybe you have heard of it, follows two idiots, played
by James Franco and Seth Rogan, who host a talk show, when one day they
are invited to interview Kim Jong-un. This prompts the CIA to recruit
the two to 'take out' the leader of North Korea.

-I was happy to watch The Interview just to support the film industry
really, but it turns out that it came with a pretty hilarious film!
-The story, mainly the concept, does not wear out like Let's Be Cops,
but actually gets better and better.

-The pace is pretty good and the film does not waste time. I did feel
like one scene dragged, but one out of an entire film is not too bad!
-The acting is especially funny with James Franco and Randall Park, who
played Kim. However Seth Rogan just played the SAME. FREAKING.
CHARACTER. Yeah I hate him. Anyway.

-The music was very Tarantino-esque, therefore I loved it.

-The film had me laughing right off the bat and, aside from some parts
that just weren't funny, was generally hilarious throughout. Even the
ending was funny, satisfying, and overall well done.

-The biggest negative is the content. It is a Seth Rogan comedy, so it
is rated R. It is not that violent and only has some very brief,
distant nudity. However, there is a lot of language in the film. There
are some pretty iffy jokes, but it's mainly just language throughout
that gives it its rating.

-So if you don't mind language and are looking for an actually funny
film that is entertaining and takes an original concept to great use,
The Interview is totally worth seeing in thea- oh wait, nevermind. Well
you can rent it on YouTube, to it is worth that! I would honestly give
The Interview an 8/10. No joke.
<|_=00=_|>
I downloaded this movie as soon as it went online. Living in France and
having heard everything about it since the Sony hack, I just had to
watch it. If North Korea is really behind the hack, and they probably
are, I understand why they did it. Their Supreme Leader, Kim Jong Un,
gets made fun of by one amazing American journalist who just gets his
way with people. I admit that the storyline is fairly straightforward,
that we're expecting the "twist" here and there, in other words, it's
not a masterpiece. But do we really care? I think this movie is sending
a message, that even in the worst country of the world, on the brink of
a potential war, we don't care about taboo. We need to talk about the
issues of this country.

This movie cracked me up so many times, and knowing that there is so
much drama behind it, I couldn't do anything else but to rate it 10/10.
Sony, if not the two brilliant actors, deserve that.
