
When we rented this DVD (under the name "A Bet's A Bet") last month, we
didn't know what to expect. What a pleasant surprise! This movie is a
riot! Geoff Stults as Vince (competitive attorney and ladies' man) kept
us laughing for 90 minutes! His lines and his point of view regarding
women and life are hysterical (and not typical). The scenes where he is
hanging out with his male friends are hilarious - all his friends are
funny! Vince meets his match when he meets Jane (Mena Suvari) and she
is great! She is perfect in this movie! Another pleasant surprise in
this film: When conversation became more serious (between Vince and
Jane), the actors and lines were believable and not corny or clique
like so many male-female love stories. We enjoyed this movie so much,
we are going to buy it online. It is definitely the kind of comedy we
will watch again and again!
<|_=00=_|>
How can a man be the best divorce lawyer and in his personal life to be
a complete idiot? Because he has 3 other friends as goof? No, just to
be in another film full of talk (quite naturally by the way), and
finally to turn into a loving and understanding man, to defend the
interests of the woman which, he says, would be in love. I wanted to
see this movie for Eric Roberts, he is the most famous of all the cast,
an actor with many interesting roles in previous movies, excellent in
"Runaway Train" (1985) directed by Andrei Konchalovsky. But big
disappointment, Eric appears only about two minutes in the whole movie,
just a very small role. And even bigger disappointment, the film is an
absolute total waste of time. Words, words, words, only babble. Or
makes you sleep, or makes you want to end sooner.
<|_=00=_|>
How is it that we are still making jokes about fat people? I had to
turn this movie off after the scene where both Mena Suvari and that
other unknown guy make a bet to talk to the lady in the bar and her FAT
friend. Would we all be okay with that joke if the fat lady had cancer?
what about if she had anorexia instead? Obesity is a disease people and
it is linked to many other heath problems, for example; diabetes. The
more we make fun of it the less we take it seriously. How about we stop
making fun of fat people and start treating them as human beings who
have a HEALTH PROBLEM. Its not funny, it is very serious, and the more
we make fun of it the more stress we place on our health systems. Lets
not treat it as something that is comedic, lets look at it as a serious
problem - not something a comedian uses as a gag.
