
The trailer was looking promising. Lots of laughs and clever humour.
Hopes were high as the trailer for Zootopia was inciting and that film
did not disappoint. However, Secret Life of Pets turned out to be a
fizzer. Excessively violent for a children's film, not funny or clever
and really rather odd. The characters are not developed which means
that the audience doesn't particularly care what happens on their
quest. The stand out of the film is the husky little white fluffball of
a dog. I think this film is aimed at children, though the guy down the
row from me was certainly laughing a lot (while I was taking power
naps). Not the same caliber as Despicable Me.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Secret Life of Pets" is one of the most known animated films from
the United States this year (2016). The two directors and four writers
who made this include a couple names that worked on films from the
Minions universe, so nobody should be surprised that a Minions short
film runs before "Pets" and there is also another reference at the very
end with one of the pets being dressed like a Minion. But back to this
one here. I was as unimpressed by the outcome here as I was by the
newest "Minions" movie. The film runs for approximately 90 minutes and
gives us an insight into the life of pets and what they do when their
owners are off to work and not in charge. Heard that before? That's
right. The general idea here reminded me a lot of the Toy Story
approach to things. And there are more references. For example, the two
main characters (dogs) felt a lot like the protagonists from the
"Monsters Inc." universe in terms of their size and interactions. So
yeah, "Pets" definitely borrows a lot from other films, but what is the
most disappointing thing is that it tries to be creative in his own
right at times, but almost never succeeds and this is pretty shocking
looking at how many films worked on this one.

"Pets" is definitely not a failure and there are several parts where I
enjoyed it from the comedic perspective. I also liked some minor
references, for example early on about how the main character does not
like to be at home alone. The comedy is not the problem here. It is the
emotional impact. The only part where it is close to making one is when
we find out about the new dog's owner and his journey back to his old
owner's house. Other than that, the drama is entirely forgettable and
good animation is just not enough anymore today on the level of Pixar
quality. There are many flaws with the story in here. First of all, the
makers thrown in one character after the other without really
elaborating on any of them. Honestly, counting all the (lost) pets,
there are enough characters for three films in here. Another problem is
their behavior. It felt a bit strange how they quickly stepped in for
each other out of nowhere when moments before we still felt that they
did not like each other at all and this refers to the two dogs as well
as the fluffy white rabbit who turns out the main antagonist. We see
all the time how evil and cold-hearted he is and then out of nowhere he
risks his life for his enemies basically.

Another big problem I had with the film is that I had no idea what the
characters' goals were throughout the film, at least for the two dogs.
Enjoy a day out? Run from the lost pets? Run from the dog-catcher? They
were just out there and it really had no purpose and then in the end
they return home safely and it's all good with everybody being friends
with everybody. I was not convinced at all. Also about the love
interest of the main character, there was contradictory behavior. On
one occasions she acts as if she wants nobody to know who she has a
crush on and then she screams it out to everybody. It was pretty
bizarre and the writing really lacked a lot on some occasions. This is
also why my overall verdict for the film is negative. I give it a
thumbs-down and if they ever make a sequel I must say I have very
little interest in seeing it as this film was quite a disappointment
and for me personally, it is nowhere near being a contender for best
animated film of 2016, even with all the known voice actors in the
German as well as English version. Not even for Louis C.K., everyone
can be a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
Very fun and entertaining movie for the whole family, lots of laughs
and surprises. My 3 year old (also named Chloe) actually behaved
throughout the whole movie, of which she was also holding on to her
stuffed Chloe Doll that she picked up earlier that afternoon. After the
movie she commented that their were two Chloe's now. For a movie that
didn't have a lot of media attention I am glad I took the family to see
it and it was money well spent, fun for the whole family. My favorite
part would have to be the one that they show in the trailers, such as
when the poodle switches the music from classical to heavy metal. There
I think that is ten lines.
<|_=00=_|>
I was waiting for this movie since first trailer was launched. And when
i had opportunity to watch it, i was more than happy. Great story line,
reminds me Garfield and his new "friend" dog. Many characters such as
lazy cat and hamster who can't find his way home made movie incredible
funny. I love Kevin Hart voice and his expressions being that little,
loud and angry bunny makes it more interesting. The writing was
excellent, made my mom, youngest sister, and myself constantly laugh.
To the targeted demographic that the film focuses on, this film will be
a sure fire box office hit to them. I hope that there will be a second
part of this life of pets.
<|_=00=_|>
I start this review by first acknowledging there's nothing wrong with
this film from a family-oriented entertainment point of view. It's
colorful, it's fun at times, provides a positive message about
acceptance and provides a clever enough high concept to keep the kids
on their keesters for 80 minutes. As a rudimentary children's film, you
certainly can do worse.

The problem with The Secret Lives of Pets stems from its complete
inability to marry story, character and concept into a discernible
package. As it stands, the film is rushed, bulky and is chalked full of
nonsensical choices that cripples any verdant ideas that could have
been. It's a first draft; not a final product.

The story begins with a happy Jack Russell Terrier named Max (C.K.) who
lives with his owner Katie (Kemper) in a surprisingly roomy Manhattan
apartment. Things change drastically and suddenly with the arrival of
Duke (Stonestreet) a large, shaggy Newfoundland whose introduced as a
"new brother" to Max's chagrin. They, of course don't get along and
after a series of confrontations find themselves lost. The first to
notice they're missing is a lovestruck Pomeranian named Gidget (Slate)
who recruits the rest of Max's friends among others to recover them
from the vast streets of New York City.

The rest of Max's friends are barely worth mentioning as they're mostly
utilized to push the buttons and pull the levers on some uninspired
comedic set-pieces. They're not really useful to the plot, nor do they
succeed in being the Toy Story (1995)-inspired resilient and diverse
gaggle the movie hopes they are. Part of the reason for this is none of
the side characters actually solve any problems. They jet here, they
jet there but when faced with any obstacles they just seem to rush it.
Gone is the creativity of having Mr. Potato Head fashion a new body out
of a tortilla; now we have elderly Basset Hound, Pops (Carvey) hobbling
through construction sites with stalwart confidence.

Frankly focusing on the story's tagged-on villains might have paid more
dividends. The broad machinations of Snowball (Hart), a bunny with
delusions of grandeur are easily the best part of the film, even if
they remain painfully underdeveloped. Additionally his "Flushed Pets"
group could have complicated Duke's allegiance to his new owner or more
easily pegged Max as a fully socialized pet and therefore in need of
re-education. Snowball was the best chance the movie had in getting
audiences to truly know the characters we're supposed to be rooting for
but instead they blew it on prolonged chase sequences and a sausage
factory bit that goes absolutely nowhere.

And that gets me to the biggest problem I have with this film; the
creators' approach to the high concept itself. The film tries to have
its cake and eat it to, portraying characters with innately human
characteristics but still clinging to the charming pet-like
idiosyncrasies we know and love about our furry friends. For example,
Gidget recruits the help of Tiberius (Brooks) a hawk who at first tries
to eat her. She barely escapes his talons only to trust him once more
because that's just what a peppy little dog would do. Max's friends Mel
(Moynihan) and Buddy (Buress) don't even notice Max is gone because,
being dogs, they're distracted by butterflies and squirrels. They're
certainly not a rag-tag group of lovable rogues, they're a confederacy
of dunces, successful only because of the ever changing allegiances of
the main antagonist. Oh yeah, I almost forgot to mention Snowball at
one point joins forces with Max to save Duke in a climactic sequence so
blithely unnatural it renders the friends search and rescue completely
moot.

This film is a rushed, characterless, flavorless kids film that just
barely stretches its plot over the skeleton of its story structure. As
I said before, if all you're looking for is a bland and forgettable
family film, you could do worse. Yet provided it's appealing concept,
you'd really think the animation studio that made Despicable Me (2010)
could do better.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised this film got such a low overall score by users. I
thought is was a blast. I am not an animated movie fan in the least. I
normally like dark movies, dramas, sci-fi, and horror. This was the
first animated film I have seen since Avatar, (which isn't the same
type of animation really,) but when I watched the trailer last year, I
thought it would probably be good. And it was.

The movie delivered exactly what it promised: laughs. It's not earth
shattering, mind blowing, and it doesn't explain the meaning of life in
90 minutes. But it's not that type of movie. It's a summer escape film,
one that is a little different from the 1000th superhero movie or
Sequel #10 of The Current Film of Mediocrity, and one that you can
bring your children to without worrying about covering their eyes and
ears every scene. There are a couple of scenes of mild violence or
almost violence, but they aren't any worse than Bugs Bunny and his
adventures with the Roadrunner (I suppose that reference dates me lol). 

What I liked the best about the movie is the way it demonstrates the
thoughts and behaviors of the pets to the viewer. As a Great Dane
owner, I often wonder what my dogs are thinking/doing, especially when
I'm at work, and my ideas are similar to the writers. Their thoughts
and conversations were the funniest parts of the film, and the scenes
and soundtrack combined with the dialogue to form a lighthearted,
enjoyable story.
<|_=00=_|>
Max is your ordinary terrier who loves his mistress Katie and he waits
with baited breath for her return every night from work. His friends
also wait for their owners, but not with the dedication Max has!
Leonard, a large poodle plays rock music when his proper owner who
loves classical goes to work, while Chloe a rather snobby cat pushes
away her bowl of cat food when her owner goes to work. Gidget a small
white dog who loves Max watches soaps while a pet bird pretends he is a
fighter plane. Everything in Max's world with Katie changes when she
brings home a large brown dog named Duke who steals Max's bed and food.
Max wants Duke out of the picture and in the real world when the dog
walker Katie hires doesn't do his job right, Max seems to get his wish.
However,things turn out bad when Max along with Duke get picked up as
strays and it is up to Chloe and Gidget to get them back. Chloe and
Gidget hire a scavenger bird and a crazed white bunny named Snowball to
get Max and Duke back. 

This is a very funny story about the way our pets see the world and how
they see us! Max learns to love Duke even though he doesn't want to
share his owner with him and both are lucky to have Katie in their
lives. I recommend this movie to all pet owners!
<|_=00=_|>
I got curious about this movie after seeing the trailers. Then my mom
and I saw it in the theatre; I thought it is another great animated
movie of the year. Also Max & Gidget are my favorite characters.

The story is about Max living a good life in his New York apartment
with his beloved owner Katie. That is until Katie brings home a big,
shaggy stray name Duke, who Max thought is trying to muscle in on his
happy home. One day during a walk with the dog-walker, the resentive
Duke tricks Max into travelling far into the city, and they are
attacked by a feral cat gang in an alley. The cats remove Max and
Duke's collars and the dogs are caught by the city's Animal Control.
Fortunately the two dogs were saved by a rogue band called "The Flushed
Pets". That is all I could tell you folks.

I don't have a favorite scene (as I said many times), because I love
the whole film from beginning to end. I also love the movie's humor and
great animation. One more thing to point out is that Max was so cute as
a puppy! So overall, this is a great film for all pet lovers.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing. The trees were all vibrant colors, the pets had amazing
animation. The city itself was so detailed I wondered how long it took
to make. The water flows so nicely. The jokes were hilarious, tons of
kids (and adults) laughed and giggled the whole time. Although seeming
very intense at times, the music flows great and goes great with the
story line. This movie teaches a slight bit of friendship, and
adaptation. I rate this 10/10 because I find it very understandable,
laughable, and friendly. All in all, a great movie to watch with the
whole family. Also, each character has its own personality which adds
to the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this hilarious, heartwarming and inspiring movie with my
grandchildren. The jam- packed theater was literally rocking with the
joyous giggles and laughter of the children. However, at times, the
kids' delighted outbursts were overwhelmed by the raucous guffaws of
adults appreciating the keen, sophisticated sense of humor of the
director. As a native New Yorker, I was especially impressed that an
animated film could truly capture the essence and heart of our
wonderful city. I wasastinished to see so many people leaving the
theater getting right back on line to purchase tickets for future
performances; as dozens of people had been turned away from this
showing and those for the remainder of the weekend . This is a
wholesome, must-see movie for pet lovers and children of all ages!
Don't miss it!
