
MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS

I don't usually do reviews but this film was such a huge disappointment
I couldn't fight it anymore. The original movie was so good and,
considering this is the exact same movie, there was really not much
that could go wrong. In theory of course, because in reality the final
result is just soulless. Everything feels fake. From Emma Watson's
acting to the cgi and the props. I love Emma Watson but in this film
she is just playing herself trying to play Belle. To be fair though, no
one in the film actually manages to instill the characters with the
same emotion and personality as the original except maybe Josh Gad.
Luke Evans is very good but his character is written as a villain from
the start, while in the original he evolves from slightly annoying to
"evil". Which brings me to my next point: the awful writing. The film
treats the audience like we're stupid and needs to explain everything
verbally instead of just letting things show through the action. The
characters are one dimensional and don't change as the story unfolds.
Gaston is the villain. The Beast is just a misunderstood soul from the
beginning despite the prologue telling us otherwise. Even his bad
temper is watered down. The writers had already the script written for
them, all they had to do was add a few more lines here and there and
create two or three scenes that would blend in seamlessly with the
original (since, I repeat, they chose to use almost word for word the
1991 script with minor changes). Well, the new dialogue feels very
wooden and unnatural. The new scenes add nothing to the story and, even
though the creators try to answer some questions we have from the
original, in the end they create new plot holes that go unanswered. I
miss the subtlety of the 1991 film in which every expression, every
line and every pause added something either to the progression of the
story or the characterization of the heroes without anything feeling
forced. I keep mentioning the original a lot but that is because this
movie has nothing new to offer really, so I can't fully separate it
from the 1991 one. In the end, what annoys me the most is that the 2017
remake had great potential to become a new classic and stand on its own
had it been handled a little differently and not with a rushed "let's
make some good money" mentality. There are very few good things about
this movie, one of which is the music which is simply magical and
manages to convey all the emotions the actors can't. Then there is the
ending (after the transformation) where there is a more realistic touch
as the villagers remember their friends-relatives that work at the
castle and are finally reunited. Overall, despite the enormous hype,
the movie just makes the original stand out even more as a timeless
film that won't be surpassed by another adaptation any time soon.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure, I'm a huge film snob who (on the surface) only likes artsy-fartsy
foreign films from before the 60's, but that hasn't stopped me from
loving Disney's Beauty & The Beast; in fact, it's probably my favorite
American animated film and is easily Disney's finest work. It's
beautiful, it's breathtaking, it's warm, it's hilarious, it's
captivating, and, in Disney fashion, it's magical. When I learned that
Disney would be remaking their classic films, B&TB was undeniably the
best wrapped package. How could they go wrong?

Oh man, they went wrong.

First thing's first: this film is so flat. The directing was dull and
uninteresting throughout the entire film and it honestly felt like one
of the Twilight sequels...and then I looked it up and found out that,
yes, director Bill Condon was the man behind Breaking Dawn parts 1 & 2.
Every shot looks bored and uninterested, which contrasts heavily with
the original animated film that was constantly popping with vibrancy.
The script too is boring because it's almost a complete remake of the
original, though I guess most people won't mind that.

Next: the CGI is horrid. Although I didn't care for The Jungle Book
from last year, I could at least admit that the CGI was breathtaking.
The same cant be said for this film. Characters like Lumière,
Cogsworth, Mrs Potts, and most of the cursed appliances have very
strange, lifeless faces that are pretty off putting to be looking at
for such a long time. All of the sets too look artificial and fake,
especially the town towards the beginning. However, the biggest
offender is easily and infuriatingly the character that mattered most:
The Beast. The CGI on the Beast's face is so distracting that it
completely takes you out of the film. His eyes are completely devoid of
soul, and his mouth is a gaping video game black hole of fiction. Klaus
Kinski looked much better in the Faerie Tale Theatre episode of Beauty
& The Beast, and that was a 1984 TV show episode. But do you know why
it looked better? Because it was an actual face with actual eyes, not
some video game computerized synthetic monstrosity. When will studios
learn that practical effects will always top CGI?

Finally: wasted casting. Emma Watson is beautiful, but she's no Belle.
She is completely devoid of the warmth and humanity that made the
animated Belle so beloved. Instead, she is cold and heartless
throughout most of the film. Kevin Kline is 100% wasted and does
nothing except look old. Ian McKellan, Ewan McGregor, Emma Thompson,
and even Dan Stevens as the Beast are very expendable and could've been
played by anyone else. The only good characters are Gaston and LeFou,
mostly because they are fun and played by actors who breathe new life
into their original shapes. If anything, this film should've been about
Gaston and LeFou, but that would never happen because that would mean
Disney couldn't cater to blind nostalgic 90's kids.

Overall, this film is a complete bore. It could've been better if even
the special effects were good, but the CGI in particular is horrendous.
I'm all for Disney remaking their nostalgia- catering 90's films, but
they need to be interesting. This film, sadly, is not. Even the
Christmas sequel is better than this film because it's at least
something.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the original Disney film (Personally I feel it's their
masterpiece) I was taken aback to the fact that a new version was in
the making. Still excited I had high hopes for the film. Most of was
shattered in the first 10 minutes. Campy acting with badly performed
singing starts off a long journey holding hands with some of the worst
CGI Hollywood have managed to but to screen in ages. 

A film that is over 50% GCI, should focus on making that part
believable, unfortunately for this film, it's far from that. It looks
like the original film was ripped apart frame by frame and the
beautiful hand-painted drawings have been replaced with digital
caricatures. Besides CGI that is bad, it's mostly creepy. As the little
teacup boy will give me nightmares for several nights to come. Emma
Watson plays the same character as she always does, with very little
acting effort and very little conviction as Belle. Although I can see
why she was cast in the film based on merits, she is far from the right
choice for the role. Dan Stevens does alright under as some motion
captured dead-eyed Beast, but his performance feels flat as well. Luke
Evans makes for a great pompous Gaston, but a character that has little
depth doesn't really make for a great viewing experience. Josh Gad is a
great comic relief just like the original movie's LeFou. Other than
that, none of the cast stands out enough for me to remember them. Human
or CHI creature. I was just bored through out the whole experience. And
for a project costing $160 000 000, I can see why the PR department is
pushing it so hard because they really need to get some cash back on
this pile of wet stinky CGI-fur!

All and all, I might be bias from really loving Disney's first
adaptation. That for me marks the high-point of all their work,
perfectly combining the skills of their animators along with some CGI
in a majestic blend. This film however is more like the bucket you wash
off your paintbrush in, it has all the same colors, but muddled with
water and to thin to make a captivating story from. The film is quite
frankly not worth your time, you would be better off watching the
original one more time.
<|_=00=_|>
Beauty and the Beast is about a deposed slave-owning aristocrat who
imprisons a farm girl. She undergoes Stockholm Syndrome, identifying
with her captor, then proceeds to betray her village's uprising and
reinstates the slave-owning prince to power by offering her hand in
marriage.

Furthermore, Belle's contempt for the provincial farming community and
their lack of refinement stems from vague memories she has of a more
cultured upbringing in Paris. When she later is shown a vision of her
childhood house and remarks "it's so small," this was a moment where
she could put it all together. 

The lack of refinement in the rural areas was due to brutal
exploitation which forced unmarried women to beg in the streets. It is
likely that the community's surplus resources were taken by aristocrats
like the Beast, and used to fund his opulent palace. Thus, depriving
the farming community of leisure time and resources for education and
arts, which would have made them more sophisticated, meeting Belle's
approval.

It is also possible that Gaston's intense desire to marry, which caused
his nefarious plot, may be linked to levée en masse, a policy that
required conscription for all unmarried French men between 18 and 25.
So his patriarchal demands were a direct result of state policy to
benefit the aristocracy by providing soldiers to sacrifice their lives
in land disputes between inbred blue blood cousins.

Then, this exploitation provided a concentration of wealth and power in
the city, which created the market for her father to pursue creative
employment rather than farm work. This also forced them into slums,
where squalor and poor public health systems lead to the spread of
plague, which is met with cold indifference by the doctor, indicating
lack of public health care as a source of Belle's childhood trauma. 

All of this exploitation and upward wealth transfer made its way back
to the remote plantation of the Beast.

When confronted with this inescapable logic, what does she do? She
decides to take the easy way out and enjoy the life of luxury, waited
hand and foot by Beast's slaves, who feed her, clothe her, sing and
dance for her. A life she always felt entitled to, on part of her
feeling of superiority towards her provincial neighbors.

The moral of the story is, marry for money, and ignore the suffering of
the poor. A terrible message for children.
<|_=00=_|>
This adaptation is a disgrace to the original. Watson's voice is auto-
tuned to death and the Beast CGI wasn't good. Each time the Beast
popped up, he was very off putting. Watson's line deliveries are poor
and doesn't do the animated princess justice. She also seems a bit too
young for the role. She is a total miscast. Despite the Beast's CGI, at
least his performance was very good as both the Beast and Prince
compared to Watson. Emma Thompson's rendition of Tale as Old as Time
does not beat the animated tea cup, but at least she was not auto tuned
to death. There are very few moments of originality as it is a frame by
frame copy to the animated film. It's very uninspiring and unnecessary.

0/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear: where should I start folks. I had low
expectations already because I hated each and every single trailer so
far, but boy did Disney make a blunder here. I'm sure the film will
still make a billion dollars - hey: if Transformers 11 can do it, why
not Belle? - but this film kills every subtle beautiful little thing
that had made the original special, and it does so already in the very
early stages. It's like the dinosaur stampede scene in Jackson's King
Kong: only with even worse CGI (and, well, kitchen devices instead of
dinos).

The worst sin, though, is that everything (and I mean really
EVERYTHING) looks fake. What's the point of making a live-action
version of a beloved cartoon if you make every prop look like a prop? I
know it's a fairy tale for kids, but even Belle's village looks like it
had only recently been put there by a subpar production designer trying
to copy the images from the cartoon. There is not a hint of
authenticity here. Unlike in Jungle Book, where we got great looking
CGI, this really is the by-the-numbers version and corporate filmmaking
at its worst. Of course it's not really a "bad" film; those 200 million
blockbusters rarely are (this isn't 'The Room' after all), but it's so
infuriatingly generic and dull - and it didn't have to be. In the hands
of a great director the potential for this film would have been huge.

Oh and one more thing: bad CGI wolves (who actually look even worse
than the ones in Twilight) is one thing, and the kids probably won't
care. But making one of the two lead characters - Beast - look equally
bad is simply unforgivably stupid. No wonder Emma Watson seems to phone
it in: she apparently had to act against an guy with a green-screen in
the place where his face should have been.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start. This adaptation of Disney's 1991 Beauty and the Beast
was an utter disappointment. Emma Watson as Belle was extremely
unconvincing from the start to the end. She had the same expressions as
the actress from Twilight. The animators did a terrible job with the
Beast. He looked fake and lifeless. They could have used special makeup
to create the beast similar to the Grinch where we get to see Jim
Carrey's expressions. The side character animations were poorly
executed. Overall I felt the film was rushed as there was lack of
compassion and chemistry between the characters. There was a lot of CGI
and green screen which could have been replaced by normal acting,
because then why make an animated version of an animated film? This is
by far the worst remake of an animated classic.
<|_=00=_|>
Was lifeless, characters had no emotion or personality , found myself
rooting for gaston, he was the only cool one. Modern autotuned garbage.
CGI was awful and way overdone. Nothing like the original. Songs were
long and annoying. Dialogue felt rushed like they tried to cram all the
stuff from the original into it but ran out of time.
<|_=00=_|>
My Childhood destroyed just re-watch the cartoon, don't bother don't
waste a dollar. Poor acting poor everything. I don't even want to waste
another minute explaining why and how horrible. Just means i'll need to
relive it !!!! A little tip to Disney, you don't need to pick someone
whom is well known i.e. Emma Whatfor.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to share an unpopular opinion. I'm heartily sorry to my
fellow Disney fans, but I feel the need to say something: This
obsession/worship of the new Beauty and the Beast is BS.

I saw this film with my 6-year-old a couple weeks ago. While there's
plenty about which to gripe, here's one of my biggest problems: I can't
stand this constant CGI-heavy everything-must-be-a-sequel-or- a- remake
era of film making. It's making movie makers lazy.

Wanna make a buck? How about remake the biggest Disney films of all
time but in LIVE ACTION. OMG *heart emoji* *heart eyes emoji* *crying
emoji* *hands raised emoji*

More like dollar signs. That's all this film was about. Dollars.
Millions and millions of them. Yes, every film needs to make money, but
Disney isn't hurting. They can afford to make quality films... and they
do! They really do. But this wasn't one of them. This was a cash grab
and nothing more.

Let's focus on the visuals in the film. Stills from the finished
product were gorgeous. Everything was so intricate and colorful and on
such a huge scale. The problem is that it was literally everywhere.

Go to an art gallery. There are canvases, stand alone sculptures,
photos, etc. All organized in a specific way. There's a break between
each piece, whether by floor or wall, that allows you to digest it and
have a moment to reflect.

Movies like B&TB are like the entire building in which you hold the
gallery is a "work of art". There's no space to reflect, just constant
stimulation. You haven't a moment to enjoy the beauty and grandeur of
it all because it's literally everywhere.

Storytelling-wise, it was all over the place. They already had a basic
story thanks to the original, but you can't just do that. You have to
add as much back story as you can, fill those plot holes, make it the
SAME but BETTER.

They were shoehorning in so much that half the damn thing was
backstory. And it wasn't told chronologically. Noooo, ma'am. That's not
how the original was structured, so we CAN'T deviate from THAT. What
about the music? The music? You mean the mostly half-assed regurgitated
pile of those classic songs I loved listening to growing up and still
enjoy? And the extra songs shoved in just so that you always had
something to distract you from how they didn't know how to write a
proper story with poignant and meaningful silences?

Look. I love Emma Watson. I really do, but her voice... She sounded
weak. I'm sure she tried really hard, but she doesn't have the vocal
chops for this. Don't get me started on Ewan McGregor's horrible accent
and lazy singing.

The Beast was fine, but his song after Belle left totally ruined the
moment. He was supposed to be in pain and the moment in the original
film where he roared out the window was perfect. You understood his
sorry and his sacrifice. No song needed.

And since when is Gaston NOT a baritone? To be fair, though, Gaston and
LeFou were the best thing about this whole mess. They should have just
done a movie about their war adventures and I would've been happy.

They poured on the whole "LeFou is gay" thing a bit thick for my taste.
It was the only thing that added levity to the movie (despite how much
fun it should have been already), but it seemed a bit cheap. I'm not
going to apologize for wanting more for my LGBTQ characters than to be
just the comic relief.

Want to know a CGI-heavy Disney remake that they did right?
Surprisingly enough... it was The Jungle Book. They took the old one,
used a couple of the songs, but made it completely their own. It was a
similar story, but they didn't rely completely on it. Leave it to my
boy Jon Favreau to retell an old story with fake animals and make it
feel more real and original than anything in B&TB.

That's all I can think to say for now. Call me jaded and picky. It
might be true, but it's also true that I have higher standards for my
movies... especially from Disney.

TL;DR - Over-CGI'd-musical-number-heavy mess attempts to distract you
from the fan-service-and-needless-backstory-filled plot so that you
don't realize what you are watching is just shiny, saccharine- glazed
vomit.
