
Melissa McCarthy stars in a senseless adult comedy movie. "The Boss"
failed to entertain me from the start till the end.The comedy is too
cheap and the obscenity in language and behavior did not make me laugh
at all. Honestly,I thought I am watching a silly porn-like comedy
movie.

Melissa McCarthy portrays the role of Michelle Darnell, a shameless and
a selfish businesswoman who does everything bad for the sake of her own
arrogant welfare. Her wicked and reckless behavior led to her
imprisonment of course.

I am totally disappointed with this boring movie because its senseless
vulgarity and the lack of comedy made of this film a total waste of
time and a bad movie of the year 2016.
<|_=00=_|>
TV shows: Almost every year you see a new clever comedy show like
Scrubs, Simpsons, Big Bang Theory, Southpark, Malcolm in the Middle,
... You don't have to like it, but at least acknowledge that it is very
clever and well written. 

With movies on the other side it's a different story. Here the trend is
that it is getting worse and worse. We are almost at a point where we
were in the 80's.

The problem: The movies make money and as long as this is happening we
will see movies like "The Boss" in the future. Or another theory - I'm
getting to old for this kind of movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I was ready for a fun, entertaining comedy and it failed at every
level. Melissa and her hubby should not ever collaborate on a venture
again, the writing and execution was forced which did not flow. We love
Melissa, however she should have taken her concept to a professional
writer. Peter Dinklage did not deliver which was completely surprising
considering his career performance with Game of Thrones. For the most
part he looked like he was in pain in all his scenes. I'm sorry to say,
it is not even worth a future video rental. This is the first review I
have written, I want to save you the pain! I wish I would have read
reviews before spending my time and money. Let's wish Melissa a better
script for any future movies, as this was a pure dud.
<|_=00=_|>
And what one earth is wrong with Melissa McCarthy? She is beautiful,
talented, funny.and yet she keeps making these foul, way too much sex
pieces of trash. It's hard to figure out why. Do people in Hollywood
think there are no more decent people out here wanting to see good,
funny movies? Nobody left without the mouth or mind of a waste
container? If so, they are wrong. The thing is, with this movie in
particular, it could have been very funny. Good cast, fair premise, but
instead we ended up with a film that was nothing much more than
garbage. When a movie ends and everyone is just looking at each other
with, "What the heck did we just waste money on?" looks on their faces,
it's not good. Even worse, waiting for this one to come on, we were
treated to a couple of coming attractions with pictures as bad, or
worse. Foul language, as if the writers have completely lost any
ability to write witty, clever dialogue, or dialogue at all that isn't
merely four letter words, over the top sex that, frankly, is not
interesting, is tiresome, and is so over- done. Who decides to spend
money putting out money for this stuff? Nobody with any intelligence,
I'm thinking. Too bad. You're cheating movie audiences, big time.
<|_=00=_|>
By far the worst movie I have seen in years. It is so bad, that I find
it difficult to find a comparison that sank to its level.

As an attempt to create a movie for 21st century viewers it fell very
far from the mark. 

The stupidity of the storyline, coupled with the over use of the F bomb
just made the film appear to have been written by half-wits...No
offense meant to the genuinely mentally challenged...

The 'fight' scene? Had someone been watching that video, 'fight like a
girl' and taken it literally?

What is funny about watching little kids fight? The fact that they were
all girls was not in the least relevant. It would not have been funny
if they were all boys, or mixed. Kids being violent to one another is
hardly comedic.

It was crude, unfunny and deeply offensive on a good many levels. 

I will not even bother with the rather overt gender bashing that went
on. 

The movie is offensive for all the wrong reasons. 

But did it have any redeeming qualities at all? 

Well, Kristen Bell played a supporting role, but even Veronica Mars was
not going to stop this bus going off the cliff.

Recommended ONLY if...No....No. There is no 'if.' Under no circumstance
can this movie be recommended to anyone. Save your money. Go home,
watch the paint dry. You will find it infinitely more satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
What can i say but wait for her next one. There isn't a redeeming scene
in this entire film. 

She would have been better off leaving this for someone else and put
all her efforts into reprising her role as Sookie in the Gilmore Girls
remake (luckily she will be a bit player at least). 

The script should never have gotten green lit, its atrocious.

I don't have adequate words to express show truly awful this is.

From the moment you see that over the top televangelist haircut, you
should be forewarned that this is going to be truly terrible

Avoid
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe I let my friend drag me into watching this ....
atrocious film.

This movie relies on ugly, immoral jokes that demean and pigeonhole
people into old fashioned stereotypes. Making fun of lesbians?
Seriously who does that anymore?! Also, if the jokes are ugly and cheap
to begin with, forcing child actors to say them doesn't make the jokes
any prettier. Slang terms and vulgar words do not automatically equal
humor. Far from it.

Absolutely tasteless.

The Boss lacked subtlety, and I found myself comparing Melissa
McCarthy's role to Donald Trump, and not in a good way, mind you. There
was nothing funny about the film---the violent attempt at slapstick
humor failed. It was badly timed and came off rather flat. No one was
likable except Peter Dinklage's role. Even then, he is shoved into a
stereotype about funny midgets. What are we? 8 year old children? That
was the last time I ever laughed simply because someone was shorter
than average.

There is a way to mix violence/vulgarity to create a comedy (See
Deadpool, Hot Fuzz, etc.), but The Boss definitely never even took off.
Just pure failure.

Hated the film. I don't recommend wasting your brain cells on this.
<|_=00=_|>
It was said right here on this site, this is a lousy film, save your
money, don't go see it. I went to see it because I liked Spy a lot - I
thought perhaps this one would have funny parts, be interesting, clever
and maybe have original humor.

Sadly I didn't walk out. I'll walk out of bad films but maybe it was
the tasty bag of popcorn I was eating slowly, and enjoying my free Coke
from my Regal points. 

I am disappointed that the filmmakers chose to use children throughout
the film, yet they used foul language and some adult themes that gave
it an "R" rating, thereby preventing young children to see a film that
could have been fun if they had cleaned up the language. And with a
wider audience, surely they could have figured out that it could have
made so much more money. 

I truly do not understand the thinking behind the use of children in
most of the film yet not making it suitable for them to enjoy -
certainly there are enough "R" rated films that use adults, but very
few films that use children with proper language and making a film the
whole family can see.

If a film has an "R" rating, then leave children out of the story. Easy
enough to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Melissa McCarthy has made a deserved name for her crassness and
crudeness. I found her raw humor in Bridesmaids and The Heat to be
extremely entertaining. But this movie, which presents her as a
businesswoman in the mold of Martha Stewart, does her a disservice.
What set McCarthy apart in the movies where she shines is that she's
the one being crass and crude, surrounded by more normal people who
make her stand out. In this movie, everyone seems to be trying to be
just as crass and crude, if not more so, including the numerous girls
playing Girl-Scout-like cookie sellers who get into a street brawl over
cookie-selling territory. Poorly written movie. Not funny. Despite
that, the movie is doing well in the box office. It's hard to imagine
the audiences for this. Too crude to take kids. Not enough adult humor
for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a filmmaker is simply too emotionally invested in a movie to
see when it needs to be better than it's turning out to be. Of course,
every filmmaker needs to be passionate about his/her cinematic
endeavor, but there is such a thing as letting emotions get in the way
of sound artistic judgment. It often happens when the same person both
writes and directs a movie (his/her "passion project"), especially when
also acting in the movie. Then, there's an even greater danger of
things going wrong when these kinds of overlaps involve a married
couple. It happened when Dax Shepard wrote, co-directed and starred in
the pointless action-comedy "Hit and Run" (2012) which co-starred his
real-life wife Kristen Bell. In 2014, another couple, Melissa McCarthy
and Ben Falcone, took the practice of overlapping jobs and complicating
it with marriage to another level by co-writing and co-starring in
"Tammy" while Falcone also directed. That movie made money, but was
poorly received by most critics and many Movie Fans as well. 2016 has
the pair taking the same chance with the comedy "The Boss" (R, 1:39),
which, ironically, co-stars Kristen Bell (but her husband is nowhere in
sight). So, is "The Boss" boss? Read on.

McCarthy stars as Michelle Darnell, a high-powered businesswoman and
motivational speaker whose childhood (back and forth between an
orphanage and foster care) taught her that the only person she can
depend on is herself. She's self-centered, arrogant and basically
amoral. Michelle generally uses and abuses her personal assistant,
Claire (Bell), and Michelle's bodyguard isn't much more than her
personal hype man. When Michelle is arrested for insider trading and
sent to jail for five months, everyone abandons her, former lover and
long-time business rival Renault (Peter Dinklage) buys her companies
and the authorities freeze all of her remaining assets. Looks like
someone has to start all over again.

When Michelle is released from jail, she doesn't have anyone to call or
anywhere to go, so she takes a taxi to Claire's apartment. When Claire
gets home from her new job (where she works for a crazy Darnell
disciple played by SNL's Cecily Strong), Claire's pre-teen daughter,
Rachel (Ella Anderson), convinces her mom that they have to do
something to help Michelle. Claire allows her former boss to stay in
the apartment until she gets back on her feet, but Michelle's feet
remain reclined on Claire's couch until Claire forces Michelle to do
something to earn her keep. Michelle takes Rachel to her Dandelions
meeting (think Girl Scouts) where the troop leader (Kristen Schaal) is
discussing their cookie sales.

Michelle gets an idea that her "way back" is to form a group called
Darnell's Darlings which will teach girls business skills as they sell
the unusually delicious brownies that Claire makes from an old family
recipe. Michelle gets Claire to make the brownies and help with the
troop and gets Rachel to help her recruit various tough girls and other
misfits to join up and sell brownies for a percent of the profits.
Michelle also approaches her estranged former mentor (Kathy Bates) for
financing to help expand the business, but as all this is going on,
Renault and his equally evil assistant (Timothy Simons) are keeping
tabs on Michelle and her new business, hoping to increase the payback
that he feels her still owes her.

"The Boss" is mostly unoriginal, uninspired, unrealistic and unfunny.
The clichéd plot lazily recycles the often used story of a main
character who has been hardened by a tough life and doesn't know how to
give or receive love. Falcone's direction randomly makes use of
McCarthy's talent for physical comedy, but rarely gets her or the other
actors to show us anything interesting or even very likable about their
characters. Both the script and the acting give us characters who often
change their tones and their attitudes toward other characters abruptly
and with no clear reason why. We also see characters meeting for the
first time, but acting like they already know each other, again without
explanation.

There is also a lack of realism in the way the script portrays the
fallout from Michelle's crimes, and her business dealings as the head
of Darnell's Darlings, but this comedy's biggest flaw is its lack of
comedy. There are a few laughs to be found here and there, but the
movie's other problems just kill the mood. Besides that, the movie's
attempts at humor are overly dependent on cartoonish violence involving
children, cursing around, by and at children, and vulgar sexual
references which come off as more crude than funny. McCarthy herself
has been much funnier in previous films and hopefully she'll be funnier
again in her future projects. Sadly, her character in this film is one
boss who should be fired herself. "D+"
