
I had high hopes that Fury might end the dry spell of good WWII movies.
I could have forgiven the checklist of war movie clichés Fury manages
to work in had it not been for a laughable final battle more akin to
something from The Expendables than a serious war movie. The final
battle consists of scenes where a battalion of seasoned SS soldiers run
back and forth through our heroes' machine gun fire, only stopping when
it is time for a forced emotional exchange inside the tank. While the
director chose to have every other enemy brandish an anti-tank weapon
in the ominous lead-in to the final battle, for some reason only three
of them are fired, two which miss at unrealistically close range. The
ridiculousness of it all turned me into that obnoxious movie goer that
laughs out loud during what should be a serious and emotional scene. 

On the positive side it does manage the singular achievement of most
war movie clichés fit into two hours:

Kill a German officer on horseback - check

Christian singing hymns - check

Mexican crew member made fun of for speaking Spanish - check 

Hardened leader with a unknown pre-war history who has a private
emotional breakdown - check

Young replacement who struggles to fit in with seasoned veterans but
wins them over in the end - check

Soldier falls in love with local girl only to watch her die - check 

A final mission with impossible odds - check

Moment of doubt when facing certain death but where everyone decides to
stick together in the face of certain death - check

Retarded enemy is almost defeated only to remember how to do war, and
only after our team has completed their emotional bonding and character
development - check

One member escapes death against all odds-check

Enemy soldier shows mercy by not revealing hiding soldier - check

....and many many many more.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, lets face it. We are over movies where one American kills 20
Germans who seemingly can't hit the wall of a Barn. They were big in
the 1950's, and 1970s, but not any longer.

Fury is a gritty film, with great productions values, really period
vehicles, settings and costume. The acting is good, but it is let down
by tow things.

Clichéd characters. There is the tough commander, the new kid, the
slightly crazy guy. There are a lot of clichéd characters here.

Unrealistic battle scenes. Seriously I just switched off in the last
scene. 20 or 30 SS guys with Panzerfasut would have destroyed an
immobilied Sherman tank in 5 or 6 minutes. BUT 200 CRACK SS soldiers
can't destroy a tank with its tracks off, sitting in the middle of a
road????? The tank only has machine guns facing forward, so most of its
sides are unprotected. Germans are carrying bazookas, but instead
choose to shoot the tank with machine guns, which would not do
anything? Seriously, one of the silliest, most unrealistic scenes in
any war movie. Really spoilt what could have been a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS!!!

I've seen the movie and I would rather have them describe it as a WW2
action movie instead of "authentic". Just because you show gore doesn't
mean it's realistic. The last combat scene is a disgrace. I wanted to
leave the theater.

The Allied campaign in the West was NOT A WALK IN THE PARK. The allied
casualties were staggering. Even when the Germans lost millions of
troops in the East, battling at 3 fronts (Russia, Italy and the West)
and the Luftwaffe was all but destroyed. After June 1944 the
Anglo-American loses were as high as 2.000 troops per division per
month. 

Educate yourself, don't believe Hollywood. Read books! Anthony Beevor
has great books (Stalingrad, The Fall of Berlin, Normandy,...)

SPOILERS!

1) The scene with the German anti tank guns hidden in the woods. Very
slow moving Shermans while the Germans had plenty of time to aim. They
missed all shots. Of course the Allies quickly destroyed them.

2) Brad Rambo commits a war crime by shooting an unarmed German
prisoner. Although this happened on both sides, it was still a war
crime. Funny thing is that they called the German a murderer because he
wore an American jacket. Yet a few minutes later we see dickhead Shane
from the Walking Dead wearing a German helmet and jacket... Double
standards. 

3) The scene in town. Fury comes driving slowly from behind a corner
with a German anti tank gun aiming at them from within a store from 50
yards away. Yet they miss AGAIN.

4) Don't get me started at the scene with the 2 women. 

5) The Tiger battle: somewhat realistic that the Tiger knocks out 3 of
the Shermans. Yet Fury gets hit twice (2 times) and survives. A good
Tiger crew would just turn their tank on the spot to hide the thinner
back side. Also, why do the other Sherman tanks blow up while getting
hit from the front, while Fury survives 2 shots from close by? Also the
Tiger is close enough the get destroyed by the standard Sherman gun. 

6) last scene. A battle hardened Waffen SS battalion with every other
soldier wearing a panzerfaust (bazooka). Fury stands disabled on the
road. The Germans run like dumb chickens in front of Fury's machine
guns over and over again. Even when the Germans start using the
Panzerfausts, they seem to miss from a few yards away. They only use 3
panzerfausts... Yet they continue to shoot Fury with their machine
guns... The Fury crew shoots around and throws grenades blindly,
killing Germans with every shot/grenade. In reality the Germans would
go to cover after the first fatality's, regroup, get anti tank
equipment and take out Fury within minutes after the start of the
fight. Fury doesn't have machine guns at the back or sides... Brad
Rambo gets out starts manning the 50 cal but still NOT A SINGLE German
hits him, until the worst sniper in German history hits Brad Rambo 3
times from 100 yards and he still survives. Also his corps seems
untouched even with 2 German hand grenades exploding within a yard from
him. 

7) The last survivor of Fury hides under the tank. A young Waffen SS
soldier sees him, but decides to let him be. Of course... every Waffen
SS soldier would do that after they killed more than 100 of his
comrades... 

8) The last scene where the camera zooms out showing Fury with a mass
of dead Germans around it is just plain dumb. ﻿
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to know about the war, then watch the amazing 'World At
War' documentary series.

If the point of this film was, as so many other reviews have said, to
demonstrate the carnage, pain and suffering or war, then why is there
no real context to any of the action.

Why is Brad Pitt's body in one piece when the Germans explode 2
grenades at his feet, inside his tank.

Why does a crack SS battalion continually commit suicide by walking in
front of the machine guns of the crippled tank (instead of walking
round the back) 

Why did the Yanks leave the spare machine gun ammunition on the outside
of the tank when preparing the ambush? I know, it was so Brad could
look heroic and get shot trying to retrieve it.

The SS troops fired 2 or 3 RPG type rockets at the tank, caused damage
and killed one of the men, then stopped firing them.

The premise of keeping the crossroads was ridiculous. Anyone could just
have walked through the adjacent fields if they wanted to get past.

This film has pretensions of being a serious movie and the
cinematography/soundtrack etc. are very well done, but the whole thing
just lacks any reality or validity.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the crappiest war movies I've ever seen, if not the worst!

Firstly: No story, no real plot. War is almost over, maybe in 2-3 weeks
and there are just 5 guys driving around in tank and fighting still
resisting Germans. And than suddenly everything depends on them. Namely
unit with cooks is left defenseless and if they got beaten whole
division would be lost. OMG!!! And we all know what could happen then.
The war would be lost! Luckily for mankind there is this Sherman tank
equipped with Brad Pitt eager to do whatever it takes to hold the
Germans and save the cooks.

Well, to this point it wasn't so bad. Battles were OK displayed. It was
interesting to see from tank's crew point of view how it looks to
fight. But then, we have most ridiculous and naive war scene since
"Rambo 3".

They got stuck on some crossroad in the middle of nowhere. Tank can't
move and 300 SS troops are approaching towards them. Typical cliché
scene where everybody (normal) wants to abandon tank and retreat, but
no, Brad just won't do this, even if he must fight alone by himself.
Naturally the rest then decide to stay(and to die like idiots).

When battle starts, man just starts wondering how Germany managed to
beat anyone and occupy anything with so dumb soldiers. And this is SS
company, not some regular soldiers. Even they are so retarded, so they
are attacking tank only from the front side practically running to the
bullets. Sure they have bazookas, but why using then?!? Let just shoot
the tank with machine gun. Then one blind SS soldier with IQ over 80
came to side of the tank with bazooka to try to hit it from 2 meters
distance.... AND MISSED IT!!! OMG, if they are not stupid, they are
totally blind.

Epilogue: Long story short. Brad Pitt & Co. resisted until they are out
of ammo. Brad got shot by sniper 3 or 4 times in chest, but it is just
not enough for him to die. He still has time to chat with Norman then
to kill one more German, more chatting... Ordinary men would die
instantly, but this is Brad Pitt for God sake. 

Anyway acting was pretty good (3 stars are for this), but script was so
awful. Cliché scenes, cliché characters. I'm truly sorry, cause this
could be descent war movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This film gave me a feeling of initial distaste, which rapidly grew to
anger, and yes FURY, as the story line progressed. Compared to the
masterful 'Saving Private Ryan' this film was a prime example of how to
make a piece of garbage and, with a major star in the leading role and
good marketing, turn it into a box office winner. Where do I start?
Well, the tank crew is a bunch of thugs who look as if they just came
out of jail - yeah we saw it all before in the 'Dirty Dozen', the
'Bridge at Remagen' and so on. But these guys had no redeeming features
at all - just a bunch of psychopaths with guns. Even the Brad Pitt
leading character took pleasure in killing enemy prisoners and
encouraging the innocent young recruit to do likewise. Yes, these ugly
incidents did happen in the war, and US soldiers were often guilty of
such 'heat of the moment' atrocities, but they were exceptions, NOT the
rule! And to make this behaviour seem normal is highly irresponsible,
not to say defamatory to the US Army. Then there is the perpetuation of
the old myth about the Waffen SS being cruel maniacs etc when in
reality they were highly disciplined and effective soldiers who often
behaved more correctly than the Wehrmacht. The apex of stupidity came
in the long climactic final scene in which the Pitt character and his
three colleagues kill hundreds of SS troopers with a single broken down
Sherman tank before finally being overwhelmed and killed - the naive
young recruit being the only survivor. I could not believe what I was
seeing. This is war for the video gaming generation, not for anyone who
has actually gone through this hellish experience. The Germans ran
around like headless chickens and let themselves be mowed down by
machine gun fire like turkeys. This is so unbelievably moronic that it
makes one cringe with embarrassment. I felt I should have asked for a
refund after watching such crap. Awful.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently saw the new movie "Fury" with Brad Pitt, and keep reading
how "realistic" it is supposed to be. Here is my take on this movie
(SPOILERS): Brad Pitt plays a psychotic tank platoon sergeant who kills
an unarmed, clearly surrendering POW to teach a new tank crew member
"how to kill". No officers or senior NCOs make any effort to stop him.
His company commander next gives him an important mission for his tank
platoon. On this mission, thru poor crew discipline, poor road march
discipline, and very bad tank tactics ends up getting his entire
platoon wiped out. If you look closely, this movie is just a very
cynical version of "Saving Private Ryan" with some "Cross of Iron"
thrown in. It reminds me of those "Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos"
comic books of the 60's, and the end is very similar to the "Ghost
Tank" story lines in that comic book. In fact, I suspect strongly that
this scrip started out as a film script version of that comic book. The
vast majority of the real members of the 2nd Armored Division were not
psychopaths, and by April 1945 they had very good discipline and
knowledge of tank tactics. Despite the hype, this is another case of
Hollywood WW II, not the real one. Brad Pitt's character needs to be
given a Section 8.
<|_=00=_|>
It is hard to put into words just how loathsome a movie 'Fury' is. The
self hating writer/director must have correctly calculated that any
WWII veteran of the European Theater must be in his or her's late
eighties by now, thus avoiding the real potential of one of them
slapping the living scheisse out of him for this atrocity. It begins
with a ridiculous scene, is of the war movie genre that demands German
soldiers running upright and without cover toward machine guns so our
anti-heroes can mow them down conveniently, and consistently opts for
opportunities to shove the new hip narrative that lovingly depicts
American soldiers as murderous, war crime committing, raping thugs.
See: 'Inglorious Basterds.' Much of it is hard to watch, especially
after 'Saving Private Ryan' which set a high bar for any war movie
following, the rest is drivel. And, not even good drivel at that. High
marks (pardon the pun) though, for the German soldiers surrounding the
tank, who stop firing for inexplicable reasons, but which coincide with
long discussions on war and friendship by the tank crew.
<|_=00=_|>
Why is it that WWll lasted as long as it did? After all the Germans in
all these movies are killed by the bushel and have absolutely no
tactical battlefield ability! Fury brings this to a new height with the
final battle scene. An entire SS Battallion armed with Panzerfuasts
decides to attack a disabled Sherman Tank frontally not once but
repeatedly! Say Hans you think it might be better to pin them down with
fire and circle round to the rear of the tank to finish it off with the
Panzerfausts? No I think sacrificing the entire battalion in a frontal
attack makes more sense. Besides doing it the right way destroys the
tank in fifteen minutes and turns a heroic stand into the suicidal
idiotic idea it is in the last month of the war. Please Brad stop
playing Achillies in every movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I walked out of the theater speechless, that it is 2014 and we can
still produce movies that are so historically inaccurate. Heck I dug up
my old IMDb account just to neg this movie.

Like my title says, this movie is an absolute slap in the face to the
millions of World War II vets who fought to secure our freedom. The
conduct and parlance of these soldiers was extremely out of character
with the 1940's. Please, don't curse like it's 2014 when you're
portraying an event that happened 70 years ago. They couldn't even
display proper military discipline. 

I knew it was going to be bad just from a the first few minutes of
dialogue and acting, then the combat scenes began!

So totally unrealistic you can't even suspend your disbelief and enjoy
it. Were the Germans firing blanks? Hundreds of dead Germans with only
a few GI casualties. The Waffen SS - the most revered fighting force of
the time - running aimlessly into machine gun fire like a cheap video
game. Missing their mark at point blank range. Germans typically
portrayed as weak, inferior and dumb. 

I think you could live in a test tube and probably be smart enough to
realize the final battle was a JOKE. So silly nothing more needs to be
said. 

The reality is, all four tanks would have been likely knocked out in
the first battle by the Germans in the tree-line with their AA and
panzerschrecks. The Tiger tank in the second battle would have knocked
out all four Sherman tanks, on the first shot, Fury never would have
got behind it to make the kill (research some famous tank battles). The
SS in the final battle would have made short work of their disabled
tank in a few short minutes. 

This movie best exemplifies the quote:

"History is written by the victors"
