
I went to go see rock dog, having very little knowledge and
expectations of the movie. After sitting in my chair for 90 min I
thought "Despite some clichés, it was better then I hoped for it to
be." I saw the movie to be more fun and heartfelt then funny but it
does have humor the whole family can enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking for a movie that is clean and fun for my child to watch.
We had already watched a couple and I saw this one and thought it might
just be cheesy humor but I was wrong. This movie has a lot of lessons
that kids and adults alike can learn from. Clean, fun and awesome every
minute!
<|_=00=_|>
Cats and dogs instinctively do not like each other, and Bodi, the
Mastiff, and a cat named Angus Scattergood, an aging rock star, were no
exception at the beginning of their time together. 

Bodi left his home on the mountain to pursue a career in rock 'n roll,
and Angus, with an inflated ego and an emancipated underweight
physique, dreaded writing a new song which was so desperately needed to
revive his flailing career.

The animated film "Rock Dog" was not a Disney movie, nor a DreamWorks,
nor any other big movie studio movie, but it worked like a dream in my
eyes. Lying in our reclining seats two rows from the front, my
beautiful 10-year old granddaughter (Hannah) and I laid our eyes for
the next 80 minutes on the screen that projected before us. 

At times I cried, at times I sang (quietly) and almost all the time I
was dancing with my shoulders, my feet, my hands. I LOVED this movie
more than she did.

Bodi's father was one that is characteristic... he wanted Bodi to
follow in his footsteps, and his particular footsteps were walking back
and forth guarding their mountain home from wolves. He tried and tried
to train him, but Bodi wanted to be a rock 'n roll guitarist in a band.
Finally, he gave in and told Bodi to go to the big city and follow his
dreams.

His dreams eventually became reality and his adventures that preceded
involved sharply dressed wolves, a low rider black Cadillac, a bunch of
colorful characters and so much more. 

The message of the movie was clear. Do what you need to do to make YOUR
life what YOU want it to be. Don't just go with the flow or the status
quo. Be yourself. Everyone exceeds at something. No two people are the
same. Use your uniqueness and follow your dreams!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer for this, which played along with the trailer for
Sing, which I think may have hurt the ratings for this partially. Both
cliché movie ideas that BOTH turned out to be well done in the end. 

I thought I wouldn't watch either, but did, but I do find I like this
movie better than Sing- primarily because of Sing being another
American Idol, Got Talent, etc reminiscent flick/show and piggybacking
on that old hype. Rock Dog has clichés, but it's certainly more
heartfelt and uplifting, you can't help but adore Bodi's cheerful
attitude and blissful innocence. 

(The last couple end songs were pretty good, too, which is also
surprising.) 

I give this movie a rating of 8 / 10 because I would have preferred
perhaps a few different voice actors better suited and the animation
models to have more variety within species- say, the crocodiles. Not
that I expect it to be as diverse as the heavily funded Zootopia, which
had each shown character/background character in the film with its own
character sheet and specialized design/sculpt and even gait; I just
wish there had been a bit more variation in some of the designs; it
makes sense, I suppose, for the sheep to be over simplified to push the
purposeful trope. 

I digress. . .

It's a simple storyline that we've seen before with simple character
models/sculpts, but it's heartfelt, sometimes comedic, with a bout of
passion- it's a truly good feel movie that all ages can enjoy, I
recommend it for a rainy day that needs a pep talk.
<|_=00=_|>
Cool animation, ranging from the effect of a very real dress, when the
character was running his shirt was crumpled, but only 1 the
shortcomings of other people do not interact with the main players in
the city, The best voice, world or effects that are very detailed than
any other animation
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not really sure where all the negative reviews for this film are
coming from. I am not the biggest animated film fan AT ALL, but I
really found Rock Dog to be enjoyable. The music was fun (mostly thanks
to Adam Friedman), the characters were funny and generally likable, the
story was creative, AND my 2-year-old niece loved it. I do love music,
so for me, an animated film about music was much appreciated. I highly
recommend this one, especially for families. Not sure why others don't.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was given no promotion whatsoever in Australia and so I
watched this with my children (14 and 11) with no expectations.

While the movie didn't break any new ground, it was entertaining,
family-friendly and quite fun overall. The kids enjoyed it and there
was enough humour to keep the parents happy too. When I came online to
recommend it, I was quite shocked to see the low ratings and critical
reviews - although the financial flop explains why it never made it to
cinemas or even rated a mention locally.

Rock Dog isn't brilliant - this isn't 'Kubo' or a Pixar classic. But
it's fun, family entertainment and for that audience, it's definitely
worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Some friends and I watched this movie with our kids on the opening
night. Although visual might not be the strongest among the animations
we have watched, we all enjoyed it. Plus, it delivered a strong message
of courage and persistence when chasing one's dream, great for the kids
to learn.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite my title I wish I could have seen this at the movies but I
honestly had no idea of it's U.S. release back in February. Otherwise,
I'd probably call this "Rock Dog Rocks on Big Screen Box".

(Box office that is). 

I'll admit, I found the title alone amusing. Meaning it looked like a
flop that wasn't in theaters long. Of course that's true but I gave it
a chance as I'd seen most of the animated films in Red Box. 

It's obvious others here have their opinions in rating it less than
favorably but I really don't get how anyone could not like this film. 

It has a solid story/script, there's funny moments along with moments
that are (lightly) dramatic. Bodi's desire to be a musician, in
opposition to his father and his quest to find his place in the world,
granted, not an idea that hasn't been done before but for my taste, it
was presented here with a truly fresh approach. 

He's naive' and is off to the city and runs into people much like
himself who want to make music but along with it, also finds jaded,
cynical characters that take advantage of him. 

The wolves are our resident villains, out to kidnap him to find out
what the villages plans are and what to expect when they attack. (Given
their drive to do this, they should have more confidence in
themselves.) 

Angus Scattergood, especially, just wants to use Bodi's music to save
his career. Bodi's original song leads Angus to taking the song and
saying he wrote it. 

The song 'Glorious' is amazing. Falling into the vein of U2 and
possibly a number of rock/pop bands that have songs with a deeper
lyrical meaning than others. In short, I still can't get the song out
of my head...no hurry to though. 

Despite 'rock' in the traditional sense not being what it used to be,
the use of the 'classic rock' style, combined with a touch of today's
style, makes the music absolutely original sounding.

The main story gets conjoined to the plots of Bodi's village banning
music and only concentrating on keeping wolves from attacking an
stealing their sheep and fading rock star 'Angus Scattergood' trying to
come up with a hit to save his recording contract, mesh well with the
main points of the movie. 

That being we all search for our place to fit in, our lives and
existence, as well as our actions directly affect others as well. This
doesn't mean that it's wrong to think of yourself but it is to think
'only' of yourself and 'only' what you want, to the exclusion of
others. 

Bodi, his father, Angus and even the wolves want something for
themselves, be it a good or bad thing. In the end result when Angus
finds his 'fire', it serves to bring about something that I can only
describe as a peaceful solution and/or resolution for all. (I wont
spoil that part for you.) 

It was also great to have Sam Elliot narrating (ala 'The Big Lebowski'
style) as an elder & Yak named 'Fleetwood Yak'.

The animation here is spectacular and the story is inspiring as well.
Maybe those who have seen animated films like this many times don't
think so, because they've gotten older or just don't get it. Being 49.
I still found it all inspiring. The story, the animation and the music. 

Decide for yourselves ladies & gentleman if you like this movie or not.
I'm not here (nor or the others) to decide that for you, just to tell
you how I felt about it. Ten greatly deserved stars from me. 

I can only hope many others will feel the same. (END)
<|_=00=_|>
One night, in the midst of finals week, we stumbled upon this unique
tale of a courageous canine. Did we go into this with high
expectations? Not really, but boy were our minds blown. Bodi's
empowering optimism and commitment to his dream were pawsitively
enlightening. This little dog with a big heart demonstrated the power
of individually and being true to yourself. Bodi's relationship with
his father was strained, but he did not allow his creativity to be
crushed by the expectations of those around him, which is a great
message for anyone. Every character is not only complex, but also
adorable. 

Unfortunately, we felt the need to deduct one star from our rating. One
half star because the title dog did actually rock enough for our taste.
To be clear, this is not due to our dislike of the music, but its
failure to fit into the "rock" genre. Another half star because neither
of us quite understood why the sheep needed to be sheared only to be
clothed once again in their own wool, this time in sweater form. 

Overall, Rock Dog is an underrated tale of self discovery. When times
are ruff, you can count on Rock Dog to unleash your inner fire.
