
Fukrey, directed by Mrigdeep Singh Lamba and produced by Farhan
Akhtar/Ritesh Sidhwani is set in the bylanes of East Delhi and is about
four youngsters who want to make it big in life - but through adopting
shortcuts !Cocky Hunny(Pulkit Samrat) and goofy Choocha(Varun Sharma)
are two slackers who want to get into a reputed college with the solo
intention of ditching classes and ogling at girls. Accounting-phobic
Laali (Manjot Singh)wants to get into this college because her lady
love. Wannabe musician,Zafar(Ali Fazal)needs funds for his father's
treatment. All of them need fast buck and make a deal with a wicked
hustler,Bholi Punjabi(Richa Chaddha) but their adventure misfires big
time when Choocha flounders.In this bizarre twist of events, how the
band of boys come out unscathed forms the crux of Fukrey.

Much of the film's sheen is derived from its situational humor and
Mrigdeep Lamba , who made the horrendous Teen The Bhai, takes a giant
leap in direction and writing with a sharp eye for details and getting
the nuances of middle-class lifestyle of Delhi-ites right.The narrative
is smooth and Lamba infuses some of the ROFL moments when Laali's bike
parts are stolen each time outside the Gurudwara or Choocha escapes
from Bholi's henchmen. Delhi Belly Dejavu !Choocha's inspection,oops I
mean Inception-inspired dreams and Honey decoding them into a lottery
number are sheer master-strokes !Ram Sampath's music is peppy and
rustic with fresh voices and sync well with the proceedings.
Ambarsariya, the traditional Punjabi folk song tops the list, with Sona
Mohapatra's mellifluous renderings!

The camaraderie depicted between Honey and Choocha is the heart of the
enterprise and will have you in splits. Pulkit is endearing as the
jugaadu-dude of the gang.His mannerisms are very typical of a Delhi boy
and he gets the act right. Manjot Singh makes a solid impact with his
straight-faced humor and impeccable dialogue delivery.Ali Fazal bores a
serious look on his face and does justice to his character.Varun Sharma
as Choocha is the scene-stealer and the real surprise package. As a
debutante , he exudes ample confidence.Richa Chaddha outshines our
fukras with her superb act of Bholi Punjaban and once again proves her
supreme talent.Priya Anand and Vishakha Singh are adequate, and don't
get much of scope in this male-dominated fare.Pankaj Tripathi,as
usual,is first-rate.

On the whole, Fukrey is indubitably a fresh wave of comedy with a
fitting finale and a justified message to today's youth. I laughed and
laughed , until my jaws ached and belly gave pangs.Worth a second time
watch !

Rating : 4/5
<|_=00=_|>
FUKREY is a college comedy directed by Mrigdeep Singh Lamba, starring
Pulkit Samrat, Varun Sharma, Manoj Singh, Ali Fazal and Richa Chadda.

The film revolves around the lives of 4 guys; 3 of them are trying to
get into college even though they never study, and the remaining one is
trying to get money for his father. All of them are interested in Hunny
and Choocha (Pulkit Samrat & Varun Sharma)'s idea. Whenever Choocha
dreams, Hunny is able to break that dream down to a lottery number,
which always ends up winning.

Fukrey is an extremely interesting film under the 'Excel Entertainment'
banner. It has a simple premise about a simple idea that goes wrong and
how four people try to earn money just in order to go to a college or
to help out a person in need. The jokes aren't as mindless as you
think; they are simple and funny as well as related to the movie at the
same time.

The acting in this movie is quite good. All the cast did a fantastic
job with whatever role they had.

The songs are quite decent as well. They can be heard by both
generations; 'Fukrey' and 'Beda Paar' is more for the modern whereas
'Ambarsariya' has a more simple tone that can be enjoyed by any crowd.

In the end, Fukrey is a simple comedy. It isn't GREAT to a point of
praise, but it does well enough to make you laugh out loud and exit the
cinema saying, 'I had a great time.'

FUKREY- 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is awesome movie. Must watch movie. Best movie of the year till
date. All the actors have made really great performance unlike so
called star sons. Story line up is also new unlike typical Indian
romantic stories. You won't feel bored during entire movie. Songs are
OK but acting of all actors is mind blowing. They don't have big star
cast but definitely better than big star cast movie. Movie has real
Delhi locations, not funky sets. I would recommend to watch this movie.
You will laugh a lot and every moment, you will think what happens
next. People should realize that without big start cast also, a movie
can be good.
<|_=00=_|>
Fukrey is one of those movies which wouldn't let you stop laughing for
any moment. The humor is so spontaneous that most of the times you'd
laugh out of surprise. It's a fresh script, thematic, and doesn't rely
on one-liners to get you in splits. The storyline is compelling and
witty. A story about 2 school kids who desperately want to get into a
premier college despite having failed their 12th class twice (one of
them failed even in 1st class). Their unique talent is that one dreams
something absurd, the other decodes that dream to get the winning
number of a lottery. But a series of incidents get them into trouble
which is a hilarious journey, along with 2 other guys.

The movie is buoyed up with well-sketched characters portrayed so
perfectly by the actors, which is a boon for the movie. The real flavor
of Delhi's lower-middle class mannerism and lingo is accentuated by the
cinematography that focuses on the respective areas rather than
'Dilli-Darshan' (Voyaging Delhi). The script might be silly or
illogical to many, but that is what creates the humor here! It's not an
intellectual comedy, but it ain't stupid as well. It's well-balanced
between the two. A must-watch.
<|_=00=_|>
My family wanted to go to the theatres this weekend and I had to go.
They all went to watch the horrendously boring Ye Jawaani Hai Deewani,
but I chose to watch this because of all the rave reviews. Let me tell
you, the other reviews were correct! 

I can't remember any scenes except for a few funny ones, nor do I know
any of the actors in this. The plot was wack, and the songs were meh.
But, the film was undoubtedly hilarious. There are funny lines, funny
situations, and funny actions. 

This film is exactly what you want to watch if you want incredible
hilarity for 2 hours. You'll go home happy, and you're senses will be
soothed. I'll give it an 8/10, worthy of watching in theatres and a few
more times later, because it will be just as funny.
<|_=00=_|>
College life is one of the best years of your life - education ,
college fest , private parties , cool girls , ragging and sometimes new
ideas to earn some pocket money. Every student who passes out of school
wants to join hip-n-happening college. Unfortunately, very few are able
to make it through. 

Fukrey tells the story of 4 young clads - Hunny and Choocha are
good-for-nothing school students who wants to relish the luxurious
environment of college. Lali wants to show his back-stabbing girlfriend
that he can pull-it-through the same college she is admitted in. Zafar
is unlucky musician who wants money at any cost for operation to treat
his paralyzed father. 4 of them falls into the trap of local female don
and must do something to return back the money they lend from her. 

Set in the lively city of Delhi , Fukrey is fun to watch. The story
does not have much to boast and screenplay is timid but yet it is the
execution of the plot which makes it watchable. Mrigdeep Singh Lamba
does a fairly good job in keeping you entertained with comic scenes and
is sure to bring down the house with hilarious moments. Cinematoraphy
is amazing capturing the locales of Delhi. Background score is good.
Out of 4 protagonist , Pulkeet Samrat and newcomer Varun Sharma stands
out with superb chemistry. Both of them should be applauded for fine
comic-timings. Richa Chadha and Manjot Singh do lend in good support.

Fukrey is a Laughton which will be remembered for its utmost hilarious
moments. Good 3.5/5

Join www.facebook.com/FilmyChowk to catch the latest movie reviews !!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie starts a bit slow but then it catches the speed. One of my
highly anticipated movie of 2013 that didn't disappointed me but was
different in its own way. All the characters were good in their roles
specially Bholi Punjaban. Its true that we many a times opt for
shortcuts in our lives but after watching "Fukrey" you might end
thinking twice every time. It is basically based on four friends with
their struggle to earn money for their respective needs and their
journey goes crazy enough. A couple of good songs add charm to the
film. Unlike other comedy flicks in Bollywood this one has a very
realistic approach that carries humor as well as seriousness. Highly
recommended... Ratings 3.5 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Fukrey: Excellent JUGAAD !!!

Fukrey is one of those movies which wouldn't let you stop laughing for
any moment. The humor is so spontaneous that most of the times you'd
laugh out of surprise. It's a fresh script, thematic, and doesn't rely
on one-liners to get you in splits. The storyline is compelling and
witty. The movie is buoyed up with well-sketched characters portrayed
so perfectly by the actors, which is a boon for the movie. The real
flavor of Delhi's lower-middle class mannerism and lingo is accentuated
by the cinematography that focuses on the respective areas rather than
'Dilli-Darshan' (Voyaging Delhi). The script might be silly or
illogical to many, but that is what creates the humor here! It's not an
intellectual comedy, but it ain't stupid as well. It's well-balanced
between the two. Songs are great special mention "Ambarasiya" and
"Rabba". Great and lovable performances by the FUKREYSSS.....

Watch this one for sure :)
<|_=00=_|>
I found Fukrey to a decent comedy movie from Bollywood after a long
time. For a change it did not have the cheap and double meaning jokes
that Bollywood crap is so prone to these days.

While the script was not that strong the movie had a good tempo all
along and was fun to watch. Given that few Bollywood movies have any
script this one was a lot better.

Most of the cast, specially Choche have done a fairly good job. Some of
the stuff was mindless but that was the intent as well. The director
did not try to pretend that it was something else.

The theme is about some kids wanting to get into college by any means
and how they land into trouble and then get out of it. It was fun to
watch it. One of the better stuff from Bollywood in quite a while.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, its amazing to see the new crop of Directors, Actors, Writers,
Musicians, Singers, Technicians that is driving Indian Cinema to a new
Horizon. This new generation people are threatening the traditional
Hindi Cinema people by their talent and either putting these people on
the sidelines or pushing them to try something new. Sanjay Leela
Bhansali making a movie on Mary Kom, Karan Johar trying his hands in
Bombay Talkies and other big film houses giving shelters to the new gen
directors are amongst the few example of changing times. Of course some
people are put on sidelines and some have not learnt. And Shahrukh
trying to work with successful comedy Film Maker Rohit Shetty to save
his career & brand somehow.

For awesome review read it: http://mayahirahasya.blogspot.in/
