
Ratchet & Clank is a 2016 American-Canadian 3D computer-animated
science fiction action comedy film based on the first game of the
platforming video game series of the same name. The film stars the
voices of Paul Giamatti, John Goodman, Bella Thorne, Rosario Dawson,
James Arnold Taylor, David Kaye and Sylvester Stallone.

Series creators Insomniac Games helped with the film's production,
screenplay, character development, and animation. The film was directed
by Jericca Cleland and Kevin Munroe, featuring an original story
written by Munroe and former Insomniac Games Senior Writer T.J. Fixman,
who started writing for the series with the Future saga. Several cast
members from the games reprised their respective voice roles, and
assets from the video games were utilized in the film.

The film is an origin story that retells the events of the original
Ratchet & Clank, depicting how Ratchet and Clank met each other as they
attempt to save the Solana Galaxy from being destroyed by Chairman Drek
and the Blarg. However, the film expands on various plot points in
greater detail, and incorporates some elements from later series
entries, such as the introduction of Doctor Nefarious and the Galactic
Rangers.
<|_=00=_|>
For many years, we've had nothing but awful video game films (
excluding the first Mortal Kombat ). But it has finally happened! We
have a Video game based movie that's actually faithful to the games!
This film was lots of fun, I wouldn't say it's perfect ( since some of
the jokes fell flat ) it's by far the best video game movie out there.
The animation was beautiful, the cast did a wonderful job, the writing
was pretty good, and action scenes were great. I'm glad they got the
original cast to play their characters for the film ( except for Drek )
they all did a great job in this film as they did in the games. There's
also a great scene at the end that I won't spoil, but I'll just say
this, it will make fans excited. If you love the Ratchet and Clank
games then you're sure to get a kick out of this movie. Let's hope we
get more video game movies like this one, cause it would be great to
have animated films based on Mario, Pikmin, Jak and Daxter, and Team
Fortress.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand on why critics are responding so negatively to the
movie. In my opinion, it was a really great movie. It was my childhood
game, I loved the game, I loved the movie. Great humour, great
characters. I think the critics just need to cool off a bit and take it
a little lighter. I don't know what they have against video game movies
but the critic to it is way too much. Ratchet and clank movie was made
for the fans! Those who already know and love these characters and this
style of humour will find a lot to love about the movie, but the
uninitiated will likely write it off as just another animated movie.
It's a shame, because of the fans who get it. Critics who have no idea
about the game should keep their opinions to themselves. Who are they
to judge if they don't know anything? Fans know better than you so shut
the **** up. Ignore the critics! If the game was your childhood, it's
gonna be a memorable movie, taking you back to the past to relive those
great memories. Go watch it, you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
As a life long fan of the Ratchet And Clank video game series, this
film disappointed me drastically. The fact that they tried to recreate
the first games story while changing a lot of it was just a terrible
idea. A lot of the things that made the first games story so great was
missing and got straight up changed. Not only that, but this film is a
lot more kiddish than the games. This film just ruins the whole feel of
Ratchet and Clank and went a completely different route that made it
kiddish and pretty much ruined instead of actually focusing on the
crucial parts of the original games story. This film cut me deep as it
took the story from the original game and ruined it. And because of
that, I can't recommend this to anyone. And for those who love/loved
Ratchet and Clank like me, it is suggested to stay away from it
completely, as it will probably break the hearts of fans because of the
ruined story and kiddish premise.
<|_=00=_|>
If there were ever a pitch to be greeted by a nearly universal
pleasantly bemused "...oh! Why...?", it's Ratchet & Clank: The Movie.
Let's be real. The Playstation games by Insomniac are stupendous,
gleefully destructive fun, but already cinematic enough between
gameplay and cut-scenes. Plus, it's roughly a decade too late for the
series' peak cultural relevance anyway. Could it be that Sony is
further suckling on the Marvel teat, and endeavouring to start their
own interconnected PlayStation movie universe (please no)? We do get
nods to Sly Cooper and Jak and Daxter here. And if you remember them
since you've been knee-high to a sand-mouse (as I evidently do), you're
probably in the fairly limited demographic who will genuinely enjoy
Ratchet & Clank above the age of 10. 

Yes, 10 - no 'Rated T for Teen' here. The big screen debut of
everyone's favourite Lombax/diminutive robot tag-team skews much
younger than the firearms-heavy games, likely to entice a new
generation of audience/gamers. Unfortunately, the film suffers heavily
for it. In lieu of the games' creatively and cathartically destructive
combat and cheeky humour, we're confronted with a slew of sanitized
space laser tag, with only some inventive nostalgia punching it up.
Even worse: the screenwriters resort to barfing, aliens texting, or
repeated use of the word "really ?" as a punchline. There's the
occasional sturdy gag that steps it up ("Wilhelm!!" and hat tips to
Conan the Barbarian and Ferris Bueller) that speak to the games' wacky
irreverence, but even these are generally chortle-worthy at best.
Qwarktastic this ain't. 

Sure, Ratchet's joys never lay in plot. Still, they've certainly
(clumsily) punched up the Star Wars similarities in adapting the first
game here, while trimming its sociopolitical critique of corporatism
and pollution in Chairman Drek's planetary bricolage (no smarmy PSAs,
for one). The pace may be zippy and the animation colourful, but the
execution is drearily lazy. Just when the action starts to kindle
embers of fun, it's quickly snuffed whenever the film stops to meditate
on an overlong double-cross sequence, or 'the true meaning of heroism'
(yawn). More irritatingly, while the PS4 calibre animation still looks
great on the big screen, the universe itself feels distressingly
claustrophobic. For a game series initially applauded for its Pixar
level of commitment to surreal, inventive imagery, the action is
largely crammed into Ratchet's planet, Veldin (including one canyon
jaunt that uncomfortably recalls The Phantom Menace's podracing of all
things... yikes) and Drek's ship, leaving out the series' flair for
world-hopping wonder. 

So: is there redemption to be had, or just death by Blargian
Snagglebeast? Not so fast, cadets. The movie still retains a huge
amount of the games' amiable charm, which hits the nostalgia buttons
hard for fans (Yoo-hoo, Mr. Zurkon!), and skirts by as just endearing
enough for kids and drowsy parents alike. The action sequences are
still tons of fun, even finding a credible basis for the games' weapon
switching, which allows for cameos from a gaggle of classic gameplay
arsenal (highlights include the Sheepinator, and - yes, it had to be
said - the Pyrocitor). This, along with Ratchet's swingshot
'web-slinging', keep the combat inventive and exuberant. It all gets a
bit unfocused by the end, with the final space battle drifting into a
clanging CGI blur, but the proceedings retain enough discerning
silliness to keep the vibe pleasant rather than discordant. 

For a film that clearly invested serious money into saddling a
stupendous A-list supporting cast into thankless stock supporting roles
(you can just make out John Goodman and Sylvester Stallone grunting in
the background as 'mentor' and 'thug' respectively), the primary joy
still lies in hearing the original voice cast enthusiastically reprise
their defining characters. James Arnold Taylor and David Kaye are still
delightfully droll as the titular duo, and their camaraderie, comedic
timing and banter are still enough to sell even the most tired gags.
Jim Ward's posturing buffoon Captain Quark may flit clumsily from plot
point to plot point, but he's still bombastically hilarious enough to
remain as lovable a doofus as ever, while Armin Shimerman's Dr.
Nefarious infuses the film with the energy that only an exquisitely
hammy pantomime villain can. The other star inclusions don't fare as
well: Paul Giamatti's preening as Chairman Drek is instantly
forgettable, while Rosario Dawson mugs desperately for laughs that just
aren't there, teetering between 'Generic Strong Female Background
Character 101' and 'high-strung nerd'. The film's insertion of too many
instantly forgettable 'Galactic Rangers' side characters also feels
imbalanced, and steals too much focus from the infinitely more
entertaining leads. 

"It's about as thrilling as watching someone else play a video game" is
normally a movie epitaph. Here, though Ratchet & Clank is lively and
charming enough to keep seasoned fans and younger kids entertained,
newcomers might start to prefer peeking over the shoulder of a gaming
roommate instead. The final irony: the most recent Ratchet & Clank PS4
video game based on the movie based on the video game is apparently
fantastic. Play that instead.

-6/10
<|_=00=_|>
When the galaxy comes under the threat of a nefarious space captain, a
mechanic and his newfound robot ally join an elite squad of combatants
to save the universe. Ratchet & Clank suffers from uninteresting
characters, lame jokes and it's pretty childish and unlike the games
the movie fails to connect with me i played one of the games long time
ago and i had fun with it cause they handled both heroes very well done
something that the film didn't and i loved the fact that they brought
the director Dylan Dog: Dead of Night Oscar winning movie at it's
finest the only 3 good things about this films was the animation, the
voice actors were pretty good and by far my favorite character was
Victor played by Sylvester Stallone other than that skip the film and
go play the games they're much more interesting and fun 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I might have heard the name, but seems nothing familiar. So it is very
much like my first encounter with these game characters. And this is
really a good first film, I enjoyed, but did not like, because I'm not
the target audience. I know, many grown-ups liked it, but they had
reasons like they have known this for some time. One thing that
fascinated me was the production quality. I can't believe, it was not
those silly B class animation, it was very much comparable to Disney,
Pixar and DreamWorks films. The only thing that did not favour it was
the story. If they have got that part right, it would have been one of
the best animations of the years.

So the truth is I tempted to rate it higher for the quality of
animation alone. The directors, and all artists must be praised for
that. If I were a kid, it would have been my favourite. So what I'm
saying it, this film will be loved by children. There's not child film
critic, otherwise this film would have been appreciated better. The
problem is the critics did not like it, and so the adults, but families
with kids might have chance to enjoy it.

Some of the big names in the voice-over artist list, but that did not
help the film to see its success. There's no innovation in it,
everything you see in the film was already exploited in other films.
All those the space warriors thing, the chosen one, villain, mad
scientist, betrayal, you have seen them from 'Star wars' to 'Guardian
of the Galaxy'. That is another reason for not having a good time with
it. It is still very much a watchable film.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
As a huge fan of the game series I was very excited about this film.
Unfortunately it was really average in my opinion. The film at many
points captured the spirit of the game well and there are absolutely
some great moments in the movie. As a big fan of the games, just seeing
those beloved characters in their own movie is really cool. However, my
problem is I feel like it should have been better. There are some funny
moments in the movie for sure, but it just isn't as funny as the games
are. I think the mistake that was made is that the movie was aimed more
at kids, most of whom at this point probably have not played the
original game (seeing as it came out almost 15 years ago). For that
reason I felt like a lot of the humor was much more tame than it is in
the games and so therefore a lot of times the jokes just were not funny
in the movie. Also I thought the cool weapons from the games were not
really showcased enough, not to mention there was hardly any
appearances of the famous wrench that Ratchet uses. However, the main
issue is that the movie feels more for kids than it is for the fans
which is unfortunate. However, if you are a big fan of the games like I
am, I still encourage you to see the movie because there definitely are
some enjoyable moments and some funny moments. It is not a bad movie at
all, it just should have been better.
<|_=00=_|>
Back at Sony's E3 Conference in 2014 (I think) Insomniac Games released
a trailer for a Ratchet and Clank Movie. I had never played the games
so I did not know whether to be excited or untrustworthy of it. I like
some video game movies. The First Tomb Raider and The First Resident
Evil I thought were good films, Hit-man Agent 47 is a guilty pleasure.
But things like Resident Evil Afterlife and other films can lead to
annoyance. I was actually excited to see the movie after it came out.
So Today I went with my sister to see the movie as my introduction to
the universe. 

This is easily the best video game movie ever made and audiences (the
fans and children) have spoken. Is it the best in animation or story?
No. But it's easily more attractable than the new Angry Birds movie
coming in a few weeks. 

The story follows our titular characters as they and the Galactic
Rangers are on a mission to stop Chairman Drek from destroying planets
to make a new one. It's basically a save the world plot.

The characters have colorful personality to them. Captain Qwark is
easily the best character in the entire movie because of how stupid
funny he is. Ratchet and Clank are great heroes and I'm glad they got
the original voice cast for them because it would feel way to unnatural
to have someone else do the voices for them.

The comedy is even clever. A Wilhelm Scream joke appears in the movie
that took me a second to get, Captain Qwark being useless is funny, the
texting jokes, Ratchet and Clank has a lot of things that are funny in
it and the movie even has Easter Eggs from Jak and Dexter and Sly
Cooper. 

The animation looks a little more expensive then it does. With 20
million dollars put into this movie, the film stumbles upon the fact
that it could have done more if the movie was more well advertised.
Making 5.5 million worldwide on this Sunday, I can't help but feel that
there is a lack of an audience for this film. The kids may want to see
it but the fans of the games will really want to see it. But will there
be anyone else who would want to see a movie based on a early 2000's
video game? 

Ratchet and Clank is probably what many people will consider to be the
first good video game movie. An audience lacks for it, but I feel there
will be enough appeal for a home video and digital market. If you have
the time, support the film and give it a chance. It's not as bad as
most people will think it is.

79/100 B
<|_=00=_|>
Ratchet and Clank is based on a PlayStation video game of the same
name. According to my kids, some of the characters and weapons appear
in the movie. To sum the movie up, it's a 90 minute trailer for the
game.

The story is fairly tight. It introduces the characters quickly. It was
wonderful to see John Goodman (the father from the Rosanne TV show).
Most of the characters behave logically, although they are highly
stereotyped.

Ultimately, the story is fairly superficial. It has a few superb gags
(eg. Wilhelm falls off the bridge and screams. This is a reference to
the famous Wilhelm Scream). However, other than the occasional witty
gag, the story was very average, not bad, just average.

Unlike Star Trek, I didn't need to bite my fist to dull the pain with
this movie. It was pleasant. The kids were kept entertained. The
animation was good.

For those that are interested, there are two reasonable female
characters. One plays the quiet but intelligent type, the other a
gun-toting Clint Eastwood type. Both of the characters added some
character to the story. Unfortunately, like all other characters in the
movie, none of them contributed to moving the plot forward. That's
because nothing moved the plot forward.

Best character: Clank (David Kaye). The character's personality was
most probably modelled on Big Hero 6's Baymax (Scott Adsit)
