
This movie is terrible. I've read the book and this is not a
representation of it. This movie is a let down on every front. The
story line is scabbed together. The cinematography is terrible. Acting
is less than second rate. Cohesion sucks. There is less climax in this
movie than there is in a retirement home. What's with the music in the
movie? Every transition scene has this grandiose symphony playing,
making it seem like there is a plot point or twist coming up. 

I suffered through this junk because I had a fast forward button. Which
is sad since I thought the first movie in this series was pretty well
done. Then the second movie sucked. The third movie (this one) was so
exponentially terrible compared to the first two that scientists are
still trying to come up with a logarithmic formula to accurately
represent the decaying quality from the first to third movies.

Watch the first movie and accept that it never goes anywhere. Don't
watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually I don't reward a movie with something like 2/10 but boy, this
one is just, oh man. I thought the second movie was bad. I actually
thought second movie was bad and this one will be the same level of
badness. I was wrong.

Cast changed.. again, budget was probably about 100$, skill and effort
put into it.. well, OK, maybe not 0, but flimsy 2/10.

This time, casting went even lower, into below-C-category of TV actors,
somewhere along letter H or something like that. I'm amazed that every
movie from this "trilogy" was worse than the previous one. And the
first one was plainly OK. Second one was cheap and rubbish(y) kinda
looking all around, but this one is just bad all across the board.

Acting was just not giving a f#$%. Sets were two, three mid sized badly
dressed rooms, one or two cabins in the woods, a lot of stock footage,
etc. Now, I know I shouldn't judge the movie by how little resources
they had to work with, but here that is just so much obvious and worse
and counterproductive. Maybe someone would have done it better with
those same resources, not the case here.

Script is awful, rushed, pure cheese, nonsensical and bad acting does
not help it, at all. Editing is just random, confusing and poorly done.
There's a bunch of random scenes for a few seconds and then back to
main plot. For example, the scene where we find out about Jim Taggert's
wife and her death, and flashbacks that follow it, it's just cringe and
laugh inducing.

It's beyond me why this movie exists in this poor form and execution in
the first place. I guess they had to make some kind of a closure to the
project. Now I wish that rumor/joke few years back, about third movie
being a musical, were true. 

This is an absolute waste of time. Don't watch it. It's not good, it's
not good-bad, it's just straight bad. Blandly bad. If you want to see
your favorite G list TV stars fumble around, reciting some dumb script
that is supposed to be a movie adaptation of Ayn Rand
socio-emo-economic manifesto, don't. Read a book instead, even if you
read it already.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, this third installment is probably the weakest. One and
Two are absolutely compelling, the realism and effects astounding, and
the blending of current TV 'reporting' as part of the plot masterful!
The book is very lengthy, dissuading some from tackling it, so bravo
for the effort in bringing it the screen! Some drawbacks: since this
project lacked major studio support and the undertaking was so huge,
the budget seemed to dwindle and major characters had to be played by
differing actors in each episode(which makes continuity a little
confusing). Yet the plot is compelling and chillingly current. Nothing
suffers here due to the age of the original story! My big gripe--in
this 3rd episode: Galt's speech to the citizens of America squandered
the earth-moving climax. In my mind (in the book), I 'heard' a Charlton
Heston...a James Earl Jones...a commanding Shakespearean voice from a
well seasoned, almost crusty veteran with vast life experience. Here,
Galt is a youthful love interest for Dagny, too young to have been the
great creator from Century Motors of decades before, and lacking a
commanding presence. He is underwhelming. I would have loved to have
rated this higher; the first 2 episodes were in the 8,9 range. This
concluding episode pulls it down, unfortunately. BUT, this is a tough
project, and the other reviews show the difficulty in trying to please
all tastes.
<|_=00=_|>
I first read Atlas in 1961, subscribed to the Objectivist Newsletter
and have Branden's lecture series on interminable LPs. Like many fans I
slowly turned into a libertarian. Yet I still read Atlas and
Fountainhead once every few years. So I'm a fan, not an acolyte. I saw
Atlas 1 the day of its premier, sold out for the first showing, crowded
the second. I gave it a 7. Saw Atlas 2 to a moderately filled house and
gave it a 10. Saw Atlas 3 last night with my wife, the only 2 in the
theater. I give it a 6.

I regularly write reviews for IMDb. In doing so I try to separate my
personal views from the quality of the film. Basically, does it hold my
interest. Do I enjoy it. Does the director and cast succeed in putting
the ideas across. Well, I have to say Atlas 3 didn't succeed very well.
I'm sure the lack of a budget had a lot to do with it.

I thought the casting was poor. Francisco particularly was anything but
the suave, cultured aristocrat of the book and first 2 films. Galt was
almost as bad, looking like a street lout rather than a cultured
scientist. Dagny has no presence as a strong executive. The minor
characters, however, were quite good.

The voice-over was not only unnecessary but stupid. No one is going to
see this film who hasn't seen the first 2. Why spend the time bringing
us up to date? The interaction of the major characters is missing. How
long would it take for Dagny to tell Francisco and Rearden that she had
found her true love? Those revelations had a lot to do with the
motivation of the characters.

The big action scenes in the book are entirely missing, victims of the
minuscule budget. Francisco saving Rearden Steel from the looters and
particularly, the saving of Galt. The latter action in the book was a
stirring climax with each major character taking part individually, if
only for a few moments. And the torture device was attached to Galt
with alligator clips! Reminded me of the spaghetti strainer on Tor
Johnson's head in Bride of the Monster. There was simply no tension in
this scene. Without the action the film was simply a talk fest. Such a
film can be absorbing and interesting if well written. But Atlas 3
substituted a sledge hammer for subtlety. Now Rand was never one to
pull punches but her dialog was the result of action not the action
itself.

So the question is, after all these complaints, was I bored? No. That's
why I give the film a 6. But I suspect that if I didn't know the book
and walked in cold my rating would be much lower.

From a personal standpoint I believe the producers did a disservice to
the film and the philosophy by giving Glen Beck a cameo. Beck's calling
himself a libertarian is like Hitler calling himself a humanitarian.
But as a film and rail fan I appreciated the Bronson Canyon mine
location and the destruction of the Forth Railway bridge.

Let's hope, like Dune, the film is the impetus for a better quality
miniseries
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of the book, and I liked the first movie. That said,
this was awful.

The story is rushed, character development is thin to none, and some of
the best scenes from the book are missing. Whether or not you agree
with Ayn Rand, she understood the beast (in her opinion) very well, and
represented the conflict through engaging dialogue in fiction. There is
none of that here. 

Instead, there is a string of passionate speeches given by the central
star but he comes across somewhere between a crazy man on the New York
subway, and a poorly edited Anonymous speaker on YouTube. He does not
come across as a veritable world leader. There are cameos from various
B-list news figureheads, making this appear more a reunion of The
Celebrity Apprentice than beautiful fictional story with a timely
message.

Like others, I saw it to complete the trilogy, and out of respect for
an integrity-based way of doing business that is legitimately
threatened today. This movie does not help the cause.
<|_=00=_|>
When i thought that Part II was worse than Part I, Part III went one
step further. With another change in the cast, it's been difficult
again to follow what's been going on.

With the ideas of Ayn Rand diluted in sub-par writing and below average
acting, Atlas Shrugged: Who Is John Galt? became a perfect background
for an afternoon nap. No pun intended.

Once again, i'm not sure why the producers insisted on making three
movies instead of opting for a TV show. Nowadays this seems to be a
gateway to a broader audience. Besides, the book Atlas Shrugged had
enough contents and ideas for eight to ten one-hour episodes.
<|_=00=_|>
Another reviewer mentioned capturing the philosophical essence and
that's why I enjoy the series. There are a few speeches in each of
these, the third included that really demonstrate Libertarian thought.

Let me say these are "bad" movies in that none are ever going to win
cinema awards but you don't watch this for popcorn thrills or to be
amazed at the dramatic performances or directorial excellence or
whatever.

Given that you're watching a bad movie, the high points are that they
present the point of view well and there are elements which for me were
funny. The Utopian "Gulch" where everyone is a high functioning
engineer or wizard of some kind, where materials and factories and
everything can be done in the blink of an eye, "It's amazing what you
can do without the red tape". This was funny. Dagny being paid 3 gold
coins as an advance on her job as a maid in the Gulch was hilarious.
I've never met a Capitalist so eager to hire, so easy on negotiation
and so loose with money with an employee. But then Galt is in love with
Dagny so I guess there's an excuse.

The failure of the train trestle is presented in a single photo which
looks like sabotage and I expected it to be so yet they say it was
Socialism that destroyed the bridge. Very lame moment in the movie.

A lot of narration is a sure sign of a lack of funding and/or
screenplay writing.

I wasn't really satisfied at the end as I wanted more conclusion, more
closure with the world at large.

Still as an expression of the Libertarian mind espoused by Ayn Rand in
her Objectivism philosophy, I think all 3 are right on the money.
<|_=00=_|>
This entire series is awful. It is as bland as baloney on white bread
without any mayo. The actors are like zombies, the director doesn't
have a clue, the storyline is convoluted, and the capitalist philosophy
borders on the hilarious. The film also grossly exaggerates the
possible impact of socialism in the United States as well. Hello!
Bullet Trains in China travel at 300 MPH, why would anyone get excited
over trains that travel over 100 MPH?

The new engine idea comes from a GM prototype invented in 1974 by Frank
Guida, a super-cleaned coal dust which reduced harmful emissions by
600% and increased fuel efficiency by over 400%, but was never used by
the company (one of the reasons they are always lagging behind the
competition).

But this is about the three TV episodes; I really wouldn't classify
them as movies. They are box office poison, as evidenced by the minute
sales of their showings. The production values are about the only thing
to praise in the film, but that is not nearly enough to rescue this
string of turkeys. Save your time and money and take out the book from
the library.

Arthur H Tafero AskMrMovies.com

PS This trilogy is going straight into my Turkey Farm on the site
<|_=00=_|>
Atlas Shrugged Part III is the last film in this presentation of Ayn
Rand's book. 

The filming of this huge novel was done somewhat cheaply, I think,
didn't make much money, particularly this end part, starred unfamiliar
people with known and good character actors in the supporting roles.

I read and loved The Fountainhead, not knowing anything about Ayn
Rand's controversial philosophy at the time. I related to it as a
creative artist and was impressed that, as long ago as it was written,
much of what Rand wrote had come to pass.

Later on, I found out that Gary Cooper didn't understand the last
speech he had to give in the film, and I realized why the film wasn't
all that good. Rand claimed her characters were not symbolic, but I'm
afraid in films, that's how they come off.

In Atlas Shrugged Part Three: Who Is John Galt?, Dagny Taggert's plane
crashes in Galt's Gulch, where she finds all the great minds have gone
to brainstorm and create a new world. They have removed themselves from
the government, whom they feel has abused them, and, in effect, gone on
strike. Atlas shrugged.

Dagny wants to stay, but she can't leave the business she runs. When
she returns to the real world, she realizes it's doomed. She and Galt
return to Galt's Gulch. The end is a radio speech by John Galt, saying
that the world will be redesigned soon.

I'm no fan of Rand's theory of Objectivism -- it is very extreme,
though some of the points are good ones. Objectivism is one way of
looking at things, as is Communism and other ideologies. Many of these
sound great on paper. The problem is, they don't stay there. People get
in the way and it never turns out as idealistically as it did before
they became involved.

I'm afraid Rand sounds good on paper too and not so great when people
try to act out what she wrote. It is difficult, if not impossible, to
become involved with these people. One reason is that the actors in the
roles changed with every film. 

If you're not going to read the book, I do suggest seeing the films to
appreciate just how far-thinking Rand was, and how many of the things
predicted in this book, written so many years ago, have happened.
That's not to say her philosophy is the answer, but there are kernels
there worth discussing. And some intelligent discussion wouldn't be a
bad idea nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
A car company changes its pay structure to one based on the workers'
needs. John Galt (Kristoffer Polaha) refuses to go along and vows to
stop the motor of the world. He convinces other industry leaders to go
on strike and disappear to his hideaway. He has also invented a
revolutionary engine to power the world. Dagny Taggart (Laura Regan)
goes in search for the mysterious John Galt. Her plane is brought down
by an electrical shield and Galt carries her out of the wreckage. She
decides to return to the world to fight for her railroad business
against the dictatorial Head of State Thompson and her incompetent
brother James Taggart (Greg Germann). Meanwhile the world is collapsing
without the captains of industrial and under attack from the pirate
Ragnar Danneskjöld.

The story and dialog are clunky. This is basically a ninety minute
sermon. Nobody in real life speaks like this. It makes the story very
unwieldy. The Galt hideaway is a huge disappointment. It's a bunch of
ski lodges and cabins with a farmer's market. With all the greatest
minds in the world, it needs to be a magical Tomorrowland. I was glad
when Dr. Floyd Ferris brings out a Star Trek scanner but that's the
only thing. Sure Galt has his motor but they don't let it be amazing.
It's a horribly flat and boring first half hour. There is an
interesting section where Dagny returns home to battle his idiot
brother. However, even that section is messed up by simplistic ideas
like Minnesota. Apparently Minnesota is the only wheat growing state.
It only adds to the ridiculousness. It makes any theory advanced by
this movie sound stupid. Then there is the final battle. I didn't know
torture requires a complicated machine. It seems like a car battery and
a jumper cable would have done the same job. It's also one of the worst
guarded torture site ever imagined. It's an ignominious end to a poorly
executed story.
