
I had low expectations going into this and even then I was shocked at
how offensively unfunny this movie is. I can forgive a movie when it
tries to do something inventive or experimental and falls flat, but Hot
Pursuit is the most cookie-cutter "buddy" comedy you can imagine, using
cheap gags that have been done a hundred times before and two talented
leads that cannot save this abomination of a movie no matter how hard
they try.

Reese Witherspoon and Sofia Vergara are talented and funny when given
the opportunity. Hot Pursuit however goes out of its way to make them
as unlikable, unfunny, and downright annoying as possible. Witherspoon
uses a terrible Southern accent the whole movie, which is weird because
she used a similar accent 20 years ago (Freeway) and it sounded
perfectly fine. Vergara's accent is hard enough to understand but it's
amped up to 100 here making half her lines indecipherable. There are
moments where you can tell the two actresses are having fun, but the
material is so lazy that none of it comes across in the actual
dialogue. In fact the most enjoyable banter between them is during the
outtakes where they're not obligated to follow the horrendous script.

I can nitpick this movie to death but what's the point. Watch the
trailers - if it looks funny to you then you'll probably get a kick out
of it. If not, avoid this like the plague. However as a fan of action
comedies and stupid humor in general (The Other Guys and Harold & Kumar
are hilarious to me), Hot Pursuit failed on every level and then some.
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Pursuit is a 2015 American action comedy film directed by Anne
Fletcher and written by David Feeney and John Quaintance. The film
stars Reese Witherspoon and Sofía Vergara. The film was released on May
8, 2015, by Warner Bros. Pictures, New Line Cinema, and Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer.

Texas police officer Rose Cooper (Reese Witherspoon) grew up tagging
along with her father, who was also a cop. After an accident, Cooper
gets assigned at a dead-end job at the police station. One day she gets
assigned to protect a drug dealer and his wife Daniella Riva (Sofía
Vergara), who are going to testify against a drug lord. The pick up
goes awry and Cooper must protect Mrs. Riva from criminals and dirty
cops.

I totally loved this funny movie which has entertaining action scenes
and girls that are sweeter than sugar.I wish I could hug and kiss Reese
and Sofia because they are irresistible actresses.

See this movie, have terrific fun and forget the problems of life.
<|_=00=_|>
It just seemed like everything was forced. The scenes, the acting. 

I can tell you, something just wasn't right about this movie, and this
is coming from a big fan of chic flicks. 

They weren't funny at all (Reese Witherspoon and Sofía Vergara), they
were actually annoying, using cheap gags that have been used a thousand
times before. 

I really really really tried... but couldn't bring myself to see the
film till the end.

I've always loved these two actresses, so I don't know what happened in
this one. 

Well my summary pretty sums it all up... it was a hot mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Glad I rented this, instead of seeing it at a theater. I'm shocked
Reese Witherspoon agreed to this film. A very poor, silly comedy. I did
however, see a glimpse of good acting ability in Sofia, when she showed
her evil, serious side. I believe she could portray a great criminal,
but that glimpse was simply that, a 20-30 second glimpse. I must admit,
my wife was laughing and giggling throughout the movie at some of the
more female oriented jokes. She seemed to enjoy it much more than I
did. I was shaking my head almost the entire film. There was just too
much slap stick to suit me. If you are a Sofia fan, you need to rent
this. I don't think they could have showed much more of her body than
they did without going to a higher rating. She is nice to look at but
that screaming she does gets a bit irritating after a while. The film
was only around an hour and thirty minutes long, I don't think I could
have lasted much longer.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure what to add here that hasn't been said already. It's just
a run in the mill cop comedy, except that the police character in
question happens to be a woman, and her escortee is a Latin American
female.

Unlike Jerry Lewis and Christopher Hitchens I know that women can be
funny. There've been lots of funny women around. And the two actresses
here actually do an excellent job of acting their parts. The only
problem is that the writing is tepid at best. It's not bad, but it's
cliché in a late 1990s 2000-teen era sort of way.

The sexual comedy is not funny. The romantic moments aren't all that
romantic. There doesn't seem to be a whole lot of development about
anything other than a basic plot and an attempt to play up the cultural
divide between the two female leads.

Again, not really a bad film, and technically it's "good", but I think
I chuckled maybe three times. Which is too bad because I've seen both
actresses in other roles, and they can make good dialogue sing. This
material was essentially "by the numbers" kind of stuff. Formulaic
retreaded scripts do not a good movie make. And all the A-grade talent
in the world won't make up for it.

Oh well. If you need a police comedy on your TV or computer monitor, go
rent the first Police Academy movie, then hop onto a game server of
your choice.

See it maybe once, then pass it up if the opportunity to watch it again
comes around.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched it last night and wasn't expecting much (because of all the
negative reviews), however, I was pleasantly surprised. It actually has
some very funny moments and the two leading ladies have a good
on-screen chemistry. I really don't understand why people are coming
out in droves to trash this film.... Reese and Sofia are both great and
have solid acting chops.

There are a few predictable moments and it does start a little slow,
but once it gets rolling it is overall pretty funny.

If you like comedies, and movies that aren't supposed to be taken
seriously, then you won't be disappointed by Hot Pursuit. I enjoyed it
so much that I plan on watching it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Pursuit is a buddy/criminal cop comedy that you'll love including
Reese Witherspoon fans & Sofia Vergara fans as well. From the time I
saw the trailer the first time, I was thinking oh man this movie is
gonna be funny as hell just from the looks of it. When it came out on
DVD, my mom rented it from Redbox and through out the freaking movie I
was laughing my head off so hard that my eyes started watering. I'll be
honest hot Pursuit is a movie I recommend to all Reese Witherspoon fans
& Sofia Vergara fans or to anyone that has a crush on Witherspoon or
Vergara you must see so if have nothing else to do, rent it or buy it
to watch cause I haven't laughed that hard since the 2007 comedy The
Simpsons Movie

And as for movie critics go don't listen cause they don't know comedy
<|_=00=_|>
This movie caught my eye a while back, and when I was browsing through
DVDs to rent, I decided to finally watch this. It seemed interesting -
an action comedy with two amazing ladies starring. Female led comedies
are really fun most of the time, and female led action comedies will
always be so much fresher than their male counterparts. 

The plot of the movie is really thrilling and exciting. Of course the
patterns are typical: the two main characters are trying to get away
from two bad guys, who still show up all the time and the main
characters never seem to get rid of them. That's all very predictable,
you can always tell that the two bad guys are going to show up at the
worst moment possible. Still the story had amazing and clever twists I
did not see coming. Of course there are some weaknesses to the plot.
There was that forced romance between Witherspoon's character and
the... Did that character even have a name? Nobody needed that!

I love the leading actresses in this movie. I've seen Witherspoon in
some romantic comedy once while I was in a plane, but I've always
wanted to see Legally Blonde, I don't know why I still haven't. And
Sofia Vergara is magnificent in Modern Family, and I really loved her
in Machete Kills. 

Hot Pursuit is an entertaining action comedy. It's definitely worth a
watch, although I will say this: it could've been gayer.
<|_=00=_|>
Inane, inept buddy comedy with too few laughs to sustain its borderline
offensive story about a high-strung cop (Reese Witherspoon) trying to
protect a witness (Sophia Vergara) who is supposed to testify against a
drug lord. A film like this sinks or floats on the chemistry between
its leads, since it doesn't have anything else going for it, and
unfortunately Witherspoon and Vergara don't have much. They aren't
helped by the weak screenplay or the flat direction. This looks like a
slightly raunchier network TV sit-com. The clunky, uninspired action
sequences never generate any excitement and serve to illustrate that
its leads are not particularly gifted physical comedians. The humor is
infantile and thoughtless, which might have been okay if it wasn't all
stale about a decade ago.

Those hoping, as I was, for Witherspoon to return to form headlining a
truly engaging and funny comedy -- something we all know she can do
superbly -- will have to wait a while longer. The most interesting
thing about this movie is trying to figure out what made anyone.
especially Witherspoon, think it was a project worth spending time and
energy on.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much and I was let down anyway. Sitting alone and
staring at a wall would have been more enjoyable than watching Reese
Witherspoon feign awkwardness as joke after joke fell flat.

There is a painfully interminable fight scene where two characters
fight over a gun that bounces all over a hotel room. It was supposed to
be funny, I guess. This sedative of a movie refused to give me a single
genuine laugh. I think I chuckled at some point during the movie, but
can't remember when. It was a mild chuckle, at best, and not worth the
time to recall it.

Every single scene that was supposed to be emotional felt forced. You
know that scene in buddy comedies when the characters realize they kind
of like each other? This movie has that scene. The characters start
laughing and sharing personal information for no reason. They have no
reason to like each other and neither one says anything funny, yet the
scene is added anyway.

One boring scene after another streams along and they are followed by
more boring paint-by-numbers "buddy comedy" scenes. I hope the
actresses got new houses or something from their paychecks. At least
then someone will have been rewarded for slogging through this bog of
blandness. Avoid this movie at all costs--even if you face divorce for
refusing to watch this film with your spouse, choose a life of
loneliness. It'll be worth it.
