
The 2013 movie "The Purge" left a bad taste in all of our mouths as
nothing more than a pseudo-slasher with a hamfisted plot, poor pacing,
and a desperate attempt at "horror." Upon seeing the first trailer for
"The Purge: Anarchy," my first and most immediate thought was "we
really don't need another one of these." The first film was
self-contained and didn't leave any opening for a reasonable sequel.
But after seeing a few more commercials and looking into it some more,
I decided to give this film the benefit of the doubt and I am NOT
disappointed.

The film stands on its own feet much better than the first film did,
and mostly because of what it's going for. Instead of trying to be a
Horror movie, it becomes a fantastic Thriller/Action film set in a
pseudo-apocalyptic future about a group of people trying to survive on
a night where it's all-out war on the streets.

A lot of themes are explored -- Human Nature, Fear, Anger, Revenge,
Heroism -- in ways that many other movies don't really explore it. And
more than that, every small detail is kept in mind throughout the film.

Compared to everything else I've seen so far this year, this is by far
the best thriller film to come out. It holds its own and it has a
message instead of just being a movie about wanton violence. The action
scenes are done well, and the tension is enough to keep interest even
in the low parts of the film. Every moment you think is safe leads
directly into the next moment of pressure for the main characters, and
you can't help but sympathize for the characters who (all but one)
don't even want to be stuck out here on this horrid night.

I very highly recommend this film to anyone who likes thrillers or
action films with a little bit of psychological horror thrown in.

And a little bit of a tip? Forget everything from the first film. "The
Purge" doesn't set up or explain anything that this film doesn't,
doesn't add anything to this film, and isn't even worth watching
beforehand.

The Purge: Anarchy is a great film in its own right and it's worth
watching. My only issue is that the first film couldn't have been more
like this.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is how I see it. The second installment (to what promises to be a
yearly occurrence) of the Purge was a lot better than the first. But it
isn't because The Purge: Anarchy is a significant film. It's because
Writer/Director James DeMonaco is finally able to incorporate the
underlying theme of class hierarchy that was completely misguided in
its predecessor. 

The big mistake with the first film was making it a trite home invasion
thriller. With Anarchy, we explore the outside world during the 6th
annual Purge, and it proves, without a doubt, to be ten times more
thrilling and suspenseful. We see the nut cases in freaky masks (one
with GOD written on it) wielding their weapons of choice. We see the
upper class citizens holding each others hands reciting the "New
Founding Fathers" motto that feels like some satanic cult. In our
seats, we feel that we have to look around all at times, because there
could be a killer ahead or behind us.

There are three revolving stories of people who are entering the night.
One is Eva and Cali, a waitress and her daughter. There is Shane and
Liz, a crumbling couple with no killer instincts at all. And then there
is Leo, the sergeant, the "kick ass and take names" guy. Leo is out to
revenge Purge. The others find themselves wandering the street. Leo
winds up having to protect them. Will his generosity effect his main
goal? Can Leo really save everyone? Frank Gillo makes for a very
convincing and likable hero. While we watch and the story unfolds, we
learn that The Purge, and its purgers, aren't so much anarchic as they
are regulated. 

With it's unique premise the Purge is always able to separate itself
from the average horror/thriller film. Most importantly, Anarchy is a
step up because it realizes its potential to be truly scary from the
realism of its "legal murder" concept; rather than just bludgeoning
people left and right. Unlike the first film, your instinctive
fascination with such a nightmare concept will multiply here, not
diminish or turn into a laughing stock.

I can recommend Purge Anarchy. Not only does it save what looked to be
a profitable franchise, but it is a decent film too.
<|_=00=_|>
In The Purge Anarchy the new founding fathers sanction another
murderous cleanse.

The Purge Anarchy revisits the gruesome dystopia in the not so distant
future where for twelve hours all sanctioned crime is legal and all
rescue services are suspended. The nation is reborn, unemployment and
crime are at record lows, all because of the annual night for
decriminalized murder to unleash pent up American rage.

Five virtual strangers join together to survive when, after several
unrelated but harrowing events, all find themselves on the street and
in jeopardy on purge night. There is no security system, minimal
defense and there is little hope.

Despite being marketed as a horror film The Purge Anarchy feels more
like a thriller. The potential for a despicable act of inhumanity is
imminent and occurs frequently throughout the film. Yet, its display is
the antithesis of a masturbatory gore fest relishing in the suffering,
evocative of torture-porn. Instead, the brutality is appropriately out
of focus in the background, almost as an afterthought, consistent with
the desensitized society.

The approach of James DeMonaco's direction is on point with the message
of the film. He creates a disconcerting feeling with a deserted
cityscape, seemingly lit at night by flickering yellow streetlights
casting shrouded shadows. Certain scenes are realistically and
deliberately shaky and imperfect to draw the audience into the
character's peril.

One can not talk about a second installment to a franchise without
returning to its predecessor, in this case The Purge. Acclaimed as a
novel premise and potentially unsettling look into the primal aspect of
human nature, it left something to be desired. The story had so many
places it could go that were raw and savage; yet, The Purge was
slightly simplistic and flawed but still enjoyable. Once again James
DeMonaco took the helm as writer and director of The Purge's sequel
Anarchy. This time DeMonaco's execution was able to address criticisms
by delving further into concept, but from a different perspective: the
working class. In doing so we see a harsher existence, far less
idealistic and a more depraved purge night.

The difference between The Purge and The Purge Anarchy is that the
active tormenters for this purge are not all unhinged closeted maniacs
hiding behind masks. Anarchy takes the end of The Purge and goes more
in-depth. Those participating are frustrated and exhausted but
ultimately they are people. Most terrifyingly it proposes a
hypothetical and disturbingly feasible purge experience for the upper
class. The nefarious top 10% obligingly exercise their civic
responsibility and now government granted right in style and comfort.
The Purge Anarchy is a commentary on society and social inequality in
the most gruesome of circumstances.

The film's ability to play into our inner fears, that deep within
anyone there is a darkness capable of unspeakable evil, is pivotal to
its success. While I wish The Purge Anarchy hadn't tried to tidy the
story up and resolve everything I did find it far more realistic and
thought provoking than the former.

More reviews of recent releases can be found at our website.
<|_=00=_|>
Last year we were introduced to the Purge, a thriller that slightly
strayed from the typical path by diving into the world of legalized
crime. Yes you heard me legalized crime, where for 12 hours: theft,
sexual assault and even murder are free of punishment in an attempt to
reduce crime as a whole. The first installment into this series,
attempted to scare us with a locked down, dark house and a bunch of
crazed rich people. Unfortunately for this reviewer, the movie was
rather boring, a bit stupid, and lacked a lot of suspense until near
the end when the action unfolded and the moral filled dialogue took a
back seat. So to my surprise, the announcement of a sequel was quite
shocking, and I wondered just what was in store. 

From the trailers, The Purge Anarchy showed some more bite than it's
predecessor, as this time the danger was taken out of the isolated home
and on to the wild streets of the most deadly night of the year. Did it
deliver? Yes for the most part, as the Purge opens with three stories
each from a different perspective of this night of terror: the hunted,
the innocent, and the purger. In a random, and conveniently timed
manner, their stories link up, as they become a band of mice escaping
the various nut jobs out on the street. Within the first twenty minutes
or so, the movie has much more suspense than what we saw, as the group
of characters begins to partake in the most dangerous game of survival.
Each of the cast is "unique" in their own way, with the Sergeant (Frank
Grillo) being the cold, withdrawn elite who leads the other four
weaklings through the darkness. The rest of the cast does a nice job of
portraying various states of mind in a situation, yet their characters
for the most part are annoying. In particular is Cali (Zoë Soul) who is
the active and verbal moral speaker of the group sharing her opinions
every step of the way, and overstepping her boundaries. While I
appreciate the morals she is presenting and strongly believe in them,
her little attitude was very annoying and I waited for some event to
put her in her place. Yet it never really came. The other characters in
the small party evolved over the night, developing backbones and
courage to fight back in the night and not be pathetic. Cali though,
stayed stubbornly naïve and annoying. 

Okay let's move past the characters and get to the rest of the movie.
Anarchy's story is a continuation of the Purge's simplistic plot,
adding more insight into the government that blessed this event. While
a few of the plot elements are rather lackluster and emotionally
deprived, they have set up a common enemy to unite against instead of
random crazy strangers. The mystery behind a few of the factions is
well timed, dragged on just long enough to keep you wondering, but not
so long that you stop caring, helped by the less than 2 hour running
time. One continues to ask why this small band of people are wanted by
so many, keeping the suspense and thrills up. What also helps is that
our cast is not the usual pathetic weaklings we see in horror films,
but actually have skills that allow them to survive. The Sergeant in
particular uses street smarts, hunter's intuition, and gun wielding to
fight off those that choose to purge, leading to sporadic action scenes
that liven up the film. Navigating the diverse nightmarish city also
keeps things exciting as the band is forced to take detours and migrate
from as the hunter's traps and tricks come to life. Some of these
obstacles attempt to scare you with predictable tactics we've seen time
and time again. However, most of these jumping scenes quickly change
into a struggle of dominance, often leading to a pileup of victims as
the hours progress. While most of the victims often erupt into a shower
of bloody ruptures, the kills aren't quite as graphic or torturous as
what we've seen in the past. The thing that really gets overused is the
F word, which seems to be the most popular sentence filler these days,
as every bout of dialogue leads to a heated use of the word. Perhaps
the other adult aspect of this movie is the how soulless and twisted
society has become in this movie, where emotional scandals and pent up
anger is unhealthily released in sinful actions. Now older audience
members are going to laugh at half of the motives, and some of the
cheesy lines associated with it. Younger audience members though, may
fall victim to the suggestions of this movie, so please reconsider
taking them to the theater. 

The Purge Anarchy is a much better movie than I had expected, and
improved miraculously from the first installment. With improved action,
a better setting, and some dynamic characters, this series shows
promise for the inevitable sequel that is to come. Yes there are still
some overstretches, particularly in the blood, dialogue, and story, but
I a film series like this one begins to expect that. Fans of the series
or those looking for a decent suspense thriller should check it out;
otherwise take five on this weekend. My scores for the Purge Anarchy
are as followed:

Action/Horror/Thriller: 7.5 Movie Overall: 6.5
<|_=00=_|>
How could a sequel to a film that was released exactly one year ago be
any good? This was the question I asked myself as I tiredly sat in line
pondering whether I should just go home and wait till at the very
least, it's theatrical release. Especially considering the first Purge
was somewhat of a let down for me. I guess it's because the first one
was purely exciting and terrifying because the idea was so perverse. It
was the idea that really sold the tickets, but the film itself, seemed
to not deliver to the expectations. 

After watching The Purge: Anarchy, it became very clear why.

In the first film, we were sold by all the trailers, which successfully
put the idea in our heads, leaving us brainwashed and nightmare-ring
about "what would I do?" 

The first film focused on a wealthy neighborhood and a wealthy family
with an unlimited supply of resources. A storyline showcasing that all
the money in the world couldn't protect them from The Purge But in all
honestly, could the average horror viewer relate to that situation or
anyone for that matter?

This is where the sequel comes in to blow the roof off the first film.
Where the first film failed, Purge: Anarchy not only resolves, but also
opens up a whole new realm of fear I had not strung together under the
circumstances. 

The sequel puts into perspective the idea of what the purge would look
like from multiple story lines that are not only realistic and
relatable but are nonstop and completely unpredictable. I was on the
edge of my seat the entire film, beginning to end. Very rarely do I get
scared once a movie is over, but I was a hot mess on the way home
especially coming down from the adrenaline high from being visually
anxious for almost 2 hours straight!

There were so many things I loved about this film. The characters were
all very well written, most of which were wildcards and constantly
keeping the audience guessing. I was incredibly impressed that the film
knew how to be violent without being gratuitous. There were so many
scenes that could have easily been bloody and gross, but they kept it
conservative enough that it made you rely on your imagination, which
often made the film much more horrifying in my opinion.

It's been some time since I got this excited over a film in the theater
but I really can't say a single bad thing about this incredible thrill-
ride. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND seeing this film ASAP! The sound of that
machine gun still haunts me 2 weeks later GO SEE IT NOW!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard of this film, I had no intention of seeing it at
all. The concept -- a night in which nearly all crime is legal -- is
attractive and repelling at the same time. And the annoying use of
"America the Beautiful" in the promos makes the whole thing seem
pretentious and preachy.

Anyway, curiosity got the better of me, and I checked it out. I have to
say that I'm glad I did. The film presents a decently told story,
sympathetic characters, and, yes, a pretty unsettling look at what
things would probably be like if this were to actually happen. But it's
not all about chaos. As in real life, you're reminded that the world
can be a pretty dark place, but there's a good deal of decency in human
nature as well.

It must be said that all of the actors do a great job. For me, the most
touching part of the film was the growing relationship between
Sergeant, Eva, and Eva's daughter Cali. This trio forms an unexpected
familial bond throughout, and you truly care about them as the tale
progresses. Overall, I have to commend creator James DeMonaco for
crafting a pretty solid and memorable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I almost didn't bother with this sequel . The first movie was close but
no cigar down to rather lazy and ill thought plotting and since this
movie was also written and directed by James DeMonaco we'd be getting
more of the same except this time with an inferior and unknown cast .
That said one thing that really intrigued me was the large shift in
positive votes . The first movie had an average vote of 5.6 while its
sequel had an average vote of 6.5 along with many of the comments
stating just how different it was from the original film , a film which
incidentally could hardly have been called original itself 

The only real criticism I can level at TPA is that it's rather
derivative and owes a lot to Anabasis by Xenophon , a very old story
that Walter Hill made a career out of reworking and which recent Brit
thriller '71 made use of . A good story never grows old whether you're
a Greek army trapped behind enemy lines in 400 BC or a young couple
trapped in a city centre where the laws of the jungle are about to be
enforced the dilemmas facing the protagonists remain the same 

I had to double check a couple of times to check if there were two
different writer/directors called James DeMonaco because I had hard
task to believe the film maker who wasted so much potential in the
first movie was the same one who crafted this heart stopping thriller .
Everything wrong with THE PURGE is corrected here . Gone are the
idiotic choices characters make and in their place are simple acts of
misfortunes . Okay some bits seem a little contrived such as cars
breaking down at the most inopportune moment but it's the same sort of
cinematic convention you see in every /any thriller or horror movie .
The characters are unlucky rather than out and out dumb and boy does
misfortune have it in for these characters that you actually get to
care about 

Another massive improvement is that you can almost believe this
scenario might take place one day . I say almost because it's something
of a stretch thinking Pat Robertson might be American president but
this would be his ideal Utopian view of America and TPA does play up to
all the more extreme elements of an outsiders view of America , gun
culture , red necks ,the radical Christian right , rabid nationalism
and corporate greed where money can buy you absolutely anything , all
summed up by a very effective montage sequence at the closing credits .
The politics of the film are not subtle but are superbly well done .
There's perhaps a danger of taking it all this too seriously but TPA
does deserve some credit for bringing this to our attention and wears
its heart on its sleeve as to what's wrong at the heart of America 

And so ends one of these very rare films - a sequel that surpasses the
original and by a wide margin too . Okay let's be honest and confess
THE PURGE was no great shakes but TPA is one the most effective and
thought provoking thrillers I've seen Hollywood produce in a very long
time and after seeing THE PURGE I thought I'd never say this but I am
really looking forward to THE PURGE 3 when it's released next year
<|_=00=_|>
The first film was a generic home invasion flick with a gimmick that
reduced the 'all crime is legal for 12 hours' concept to essentially a
narrative countdown clock device - a family must survive for such and
such more time and the film wasted a decent premise. The Purge:Anarchy
rights the wrongs of its predecessor and delivers on the high concept.
The characters are thinly written, but played with adequate skill by
the actors and a more than decent performance by Frank Grillo as the
lead. The satire is about as subtle as a round of bullets to the chest
and the film never feels comfortable during the few moments the story
calms down to spend time developing the characters, but this was made
for visceral thrills and B grade enjoyment. The mayhem is relentless
and while the low budget certainly reduced the amount of arson to a few
fleeting glimpses, the violent set pieces are staged with enough wit to
make this sequel a nice surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2023, the Purge Night is about to start for the next 12 hours. A
stranger (Frank Grillo) leaves home and drives his car with a
mysterious purpose. Meanwhile, the couple Liz (Kiele Sanchez) and Shane
(Zach Gilford) are provoked by a masked man. They drive in the highway
and their car unexpectedly stops. Soon they find that it was sabotaged
by the group of masked man that are waiting for the beginning of the
Purge. When it begins, they are hunted down by the masked man.
Meanwhile, Eva (Carmen Ejogo) and her daughter Cali (Zoë Soul) find
that Eva's father sold himself to a wealthy family since he is a burden
to Eva and Cali sine he is sick. Out of the blue, an army invades their
building and breaks into their apartment. They are taken to the leader
but the stranger decides to save them and kills the soldiers. Meanwhile
Liz and Shane hide inside the stranger's car and he decides to help
them to survive. However his car is hit by the bullets and he needs
another car for his mission. Eva tells that her friend Tanya (Justina
Machado) lives a few blocks away and he would borrow her car. Soon the
stranger gets involved by the four survivors and helps them during the
dangerous night.

"The Purge: Anarchy" is better and better than the first movie since it
is an action film in the style of "Warriors", "Escape from New York"
and "Hostel". The premise is still stupid, but there is an ironic
criticism to the America Society together with lots of action. My vote
is seven. 

Title (Brazil): "Uma Noite de Crime: Anarquia" ("One Night of Crime:
Anarchy")
<|_=00=_|>
"The unwritten Purge rule: don't save lives. Tonight we take lives. We
make things manageable."

James DeMonaco returns as the director and writer of the sequel to his
2013 film, The Purge. My expectations for this sequel were extremely
low because I didn't like The Purge and thought the premise was
ridiculous, but if you enjoyed the first film then you will definitely
like this one. I'd like to begin my review by focusing on what did work
for this sequel before I get to its weaknesses. First of all, The
Purge: Anarchy is a huge improvement over its predecessor. While the
first film followed the conventions of a home invasion horror film,
this sequel takes the original premise and establishes the action in a
much wider setting. It doesn't set out to repeat the same things from
its predecessor. This sequel takes us to the streets where we can see
how the purge takes place out in the open where the danger is eminent.
Considering that the characters were the least interesting part of The
Purge, this time the story doesn't center on one family, but gives us
three different story lines and later brings them together. This makes
up for the lack of character development in the film and allows for the
movie to be more entertaining. It is a B picture that gives its target
audience what they are looking for. The second positive thing this
sequel has going for it is the lead performance from Frank Grillo. He
delivers as a smooth action star despite the weaknesses of the
screenplay. He is the only engaging character in the entire franchise. 

Despite that The Purge Anarchy is much better than its predecessor, it
still is a flawed film full of horror clichés and unimaginative
characters. The film relies on jump scares that never work. All it
seemed to be doing at times was suddenly turning up the volume when
things were quiet in order to shock or unsettle its audience. The
characters never seem to make smart decisions and they all rely on
Grillo's lead performance. With all the horrible crimes he drives
through during his purge mission, we never quite understand why he
would care for these two particular characters he stops for in order to
save them. It was simply an easy way to reunite the different story
lines, but I didn't find anything unique in that mother and daughter
relationship that he would be interested in assisting. Its not like he
was painted as a saint during the opening scenes where he drove past
several people crying out for help. The sequel also tries to be an
interesting parody of our society and a slick social commentary, but it
isn't really as smart as it thinks it is. Every time I heard the phrase
our "new founding fathers" my ears bled and I couldn't help but finding
it silly. The film also is heavy handed on its rich versus poor
commentary, and it is something we see often in adaptations from YA
books. The villains never post a significant threat either, but Grillo
elevates the source material with his smooth performance. The rest of
the characters I couldn't really care less for.
