
I can't stand when ratings/reviews are rigged in order to get people to
watch or buy something. If you look at the 'top 1000 voters' for this
movie, which are people who actually watch movies, they give it a 6.9.
How in the heck did this get an 8+? (Well - it's because the movie
producers were smart and got a bunch of people to review and rate the
movie ahead of time...) The acting and writing is dreadful. Story goes
absolutely nowhere and is pointless. I was at least hoping the water
bed had something to do with anything. But of course, it didn't. Actors
look like they're 35 years old, and you want us to believe they're
college freshmen? Has the director ever been to a bar before or seen
how awkward real people interact with each other at that age? Does the
director know that people at bars or at parties are usually drunk,
instead of the eloquently speaking, perfectly-dressed people in this
movie? Really pointless, waste of a good amount of money to have seen
this in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're going to make a movie about Texas college baseball jocks in
1980 (especially jocks on the most successful team on campus), you're
obliged to do something to let the audience know WHY those players are
the most gentle, open-minded college jocks they have ever, ever seen.
It can't just go unexplained, or it beggars belief. The movie is not
intended to be a farce, quite clearly.

Even the two most aggressive guys (the great batter and the manic
pitcher) are ultimately adorably harmless. This is not how it works.
Their conflict at a practice without coaches should end in a fistfight
when the manic pitcher won't shut up after getting beat. You don't run
your mouth at a teammate after getting hit on. The manic pitcher's
outburst in the bar should also be far, far uglier, and it should end
in a real fight. And the stuff that comes out of their mouths most of
the time should be filthy as hell. I am NOT objecting to "gentle
comedy" as a genre. I'm objecting to the total lack of appropriate
set-up in this one, and the ensuing unbelievability.

And I'm not faulting the characters for being horny, drunk 21 year olds
(played by mostly 30 year olds, for putatively some good reason, but
really because 21 year old actors wouldn't be able to handle the house
of cards Linklater has set up here). I don't think that young men are
monsters for getting laid and drinking on a free weekend before
college. (There are complaints about this movie from some corners of
the internet that have "liberal puritan double-standard" written all
over them. I am not coming from that corner.) But having played college
sports myself, and known other college athletes at the time and since,
this is the LEAST awful group of 16 college jocks that I can possibly
imagine, and the movie is set in 1980 Texas. They may as well be
unicorns.

I understand that this is supposed to be a gentle, philosophical
comedy, and I have no problem with that in theory. I would definitely
watch a movie where a given collection of jocks are great human beings,
just out of the sheer creative audacity of seeing where that goes, and
the things you can do with genres that depict an idealized world. But I
don't want to watch idealized college athletes (or any other group)
unless I have some damn reason to know why there aren't horrible human
beings in that mix of 16 guys. The answer can't just be "because the
genre is gentle, thoughtful comedy". Give me something with a piece of
verisimilitude that I can hang onto. 16 golfers at Brown in 2016 have
worse people among them than this.

So, oddly akin to The Revenant or Boyhood, the movie doesn't work as
realism, nor does it work as something heightened; on top of that it
has 1-dimensional characters. I don't want to see Acclaimed Director,
the movie. Every movie must stand or fall on its own.

ULTIMATELY MORE IMPORTANTLY, this weekend-before-college movie (like
any slice-of-life type of movie) will sink or swim on the quality of
the bits, the moments, the character sketches. If each scene or moment
is golden, all is forgiven, and it lives on in the way that The Big
Sleep or Short Cuts or Day for Night or The Big Lebowski are great
movies. In those, perfect scene-by-scene charm wins the day. Truth
through Beauty.

But in this particular movie, some of the bits, scenes, characters etc.
are very good, while others are wholly bland, vague and threadbare.
Could 'philosophizing jocks' get it right some times, and wrong some
times, and just have some sophomoric marijuana ideas sometimes- sure,
yes, why not? BUT EACH one of those scenes of 'philosophizing jocks'
has to be somehow really interesting without feeling overly polished,
or phony, or done to death, or otherwise uncharming. It's a pure
fancy-footwork kind of storytelling art. And half of the bits/scenes in
this movie have two left feet.

This is the second movie in a row from Linklater that is not about real
life or real people but purports to be, while using facile characters
and after-lunch philosophizing. The first, Boyhood, was a full-throttle
melodrama with a grand gimmick. This one plays one sport with the
equipment of another: College Hump-or-Die movie rules, but with
handmade character comedy gear. If you don't see this, let me ask you
one question: WHAT is it that makes the main character Jake a SPECIFIC
person who hits it off with Beverly, another specific person, besides
the genre fulfillment of 'the two sensitive people find each other'?? 

Nothing. Nothing but Blake Jenner and Zoey Deutch saying the lines with
talent. Can you say that about Say Anything, or are those two
characters specific as hell, and therefore a response to the High
School Hump-or-Die movies, and not just a mutant version of one? Heck,
college farce Animal House, the ultimate Hump-or-Die movie, has more to
say than this movie does.

I'm now positive that Linklater is one director when working with
actor/writers Hawke and Delpy, and quite another when he's not.
<|_=00=_|>
I would give it a 1 if I didn't enjoy the music. I started college in
the 80's so I know what it was like. This is basically totally about
some baseball jocks that are getting together and "male bonding" before
classes actually start. With all the positive, and I must say idiotic
reviews of the film, my expectations were probably way too high. There
are a few moments of chuckles and laughter but if you have zero
interest in baseball and aren't a past sport jock, this film is not for
you. The background music was right on for the eighties and the party
stuff was funny. Other than that, it just gets boring and too long. All
the actors are "unknown" types and do fine job acting, but the
storyline is a total mess. Is this a comedy or some type of sports,
jock film or whatever? Many critics say it is a statement about the
80's and will be appreciated later. TO be appreciated later it needs to
better at anything.

I am only glad that we didn't pay top dollar to see this one and this
is one I will never purchase or look forward to seeing again. I just
want less of this crap. If you are determined to see this, wait for
cable or broadcast. Not worth anyones money.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I cannot compare this to Linklater's previous work "Dazed and
Confused", but, a couple of months ago, I saw the trailer, and thought,
"Man, this is going to be laugh out loud hysterics". Was I wrong.

The movie starts with Jake, the freshman pitcher prospect cruising in a
Cutlass 442, not bad for nostalgia (nice to see cars that still have
some gusto for real in films).

Jake is a pitcher who lives in a frat house with about twelve other
ball players who like to party and talk about getting laid, and playing
silly pranks on each other.

Yes, there is a decent soundtrack starting with "My Sharona" from the
Knack that opens the movie, but, the flaw is here: "Urgent" by
Foreigner was not released until 1981. Oops! And it seems a tad out of
place for a bunch of rough and tumble kids to be singing word for word
to a rap song.

The title of the movie is misleading "Everybody wants some!" is a Van
Halen tune, that was released in 1980, but, we don't get much airplay
from hard rock or heavy metal in the sound track. No "Back in Black?"
No Judas Priest? No Iron Maiden? This was the pinnacle of New Wave of
British Heavy Metal, and Ace of Spades from motorhead was released the
same year. Plenty of hard driving rock to really pack a punch to
enliven the film a bit.

Back to the plot: there really isn't one, except the countdown to the
first day of school, where the ball players go from party to party and
meet some strange characters along the way.

I'd have to say the most interesting character(s) are Detroit, the
introverted, hard throwing, paranoid, humorless caricature that is
funny for a bit, but isn't fleshed out enough to really meld in.

The bearded virgin who is later kicked off the team, is perhaps the
most reflective and philosophical character in the entire cast. He
talks about the progression of one song on an album while the others
get high.

Who put Willis from Diff'rent Strokes in the cast? That isn't Todd
Bridges, is it? He acted very well to fit in, but I don't see that
happening in Texas. And where are the bell bottoms? We only start to
get a glimpse of the underground music scene when Jake stumbles upon
his long haired jean jacket adorned friend who wants to take the crew
to a punk rock concert.

As for the pranks, the knuckle challenge between the thin mustachioed
fellow and the long haired shorter guy (who wins the challenge) is the
funniest bit, but hardly enough to warrant a great belly laugh. It's a
sight gag.

I looked at the Tomatometer, and it was very good for this film. Uh,
what film were THEY watching? Where's Pauline Kael when you need her?
<|_=00=_|>
Another vanity project from this soft-centred writer/director. A
perfectly pleasant, oh-so-normal guy, played effortlessly by Blake
Jenner, is our viewpoint as he befriends a bunch of caricatured late
adolescents. Mr Normal is not even a thinly disguised version of the
writer/director, who evidently saw his younger self as a beacon of
sanity in the midst of all that hormone-fuelled excess.

The worst part of it is that Linklater has talent as a filmmaker. The
piece is competently constructed and shot, and contains a couple of
well-written scenes, notably a split-screen phone conversation between
Jenner and the movie's only other credible character, played without
affectation by Zoey Deutsch. 

In CABIN IN THE WOODS the equivalent bunch of stereotypes gets ritually
slaughtered, a fate I several times wished on the quasi-characters
here.
<|_=00=_|>
Everybody Wants Some!! was a perfect film for this moment: it consists
of little more than a bunch of overly-competitive jocks joking with
each other, partying, and trying to get laid over the course of three
days before school even starts. It's intelligently written, fun,
well-acted, and well-shot. What more could you ask for? Linklater, of
course, does it all in a slice of life fashion: the opening of the film
doesn't even attempt to describe what's going to happen and the end of
the film barely describes what happened beforehand. The movie is almost
meditative, and yet continually looking for stimulus in the largest and
tiniest things... really whatever kind of stimulus they can get their
hands on. Story-wise, it unfolds over almost every part of the era,
which is, as far as I could tell, undefined yet seemingly somewhere
during the 80s. Each night takes us to a different flavor of the time:
disco, punk, you name it... but the genius of the script is that you
don't really realize you've been given a tasting menu until you've
already eaten everything. It just seems natural when it happens.
Everything in this film seems natural, and that's a credit to the
director, but also the actors. I imagine casting was the most important
part of putting this film together and it seems to have been a success:
every actor kills their part. Were they even acting? I have a feeling
they were just being themselves. If you want to watch some kids mess
around and laugh with them or at them, Everybody Wants Some!! not only
is your movie, but probably will be your movie for a long time coming.
<|_=00=_|>
Going in, I knew it would be similar to Dazed and Confused. This was
like Fifty Shades of Grey is to Twilight but worse, the plot (if you
can call it that) follows its predecessor more closely than Fifty.

Like Dazed (which is better btw), it's tough to put your finger on an
actual plot. A freshman baseball player shows up to college, interacts
with teammates/roommates, has fun, finds a girl. Shenanigans take
place. So all you really have is a bit of character development, yet
the characters remain relatively static. 

I have to wonder, Who the heck has been reviewing this flick, paid
shills? People that haven't seen Dazed and Confused and think this is
unique?

Here are some of the characters to expect: Token well balanced
protagonist, Token reefer head, Token self-absorbed whack job, Token
witty womanizer, Token redneck, Token guy who is too old to be hanging
out (same as reefer head), Token black guy, Token uber-competitive
leader, Token immature character, Token below-average intellect
character

I honestly can't believe they wrote in another character with an age
problem--someone must have been a having a creative black void when
this came to be. Another thing that didn't evolve since Dazed -
misogynistic attitudes. Most of the women are portrayed as easy and
air-headed, except the protagonist's love interest who the
scriptwriters actually force the character to say is bright (unlike all
the other airheads.) This type of portrayal is growing a bit tired.
Give the female characters a voice, it would have been so much more
interesting, especially given the time frame.

Pass on this one. Sure, it's about nothing and you'll leave with a
feeling of nothingness. The guys are good looking and witty, their
shenanigans are charming albeit not unique, beneath the wit and charm
is the stink of douchiness. So what?
<|_=00=_|>
A film with no plot, no drama, no conflict, a comedy with no laughs,
filled with male characters I couldn't care less about, female
characters only there for eye candy and sex, and there's a sappy
"Frontiers are where you find them" attempt at philosophy in the final
scene. 

So boring the characters themselves fall asleep at the end. By the way,
that was the spoiler.

Maybe if you like early 80's music and hair styles, and people in their
late 20's and early 30's pretending to be be 10 years younger while
wearing shorts there's something for you. Otherwise don't be fooled by
all the good reviews this title received. This movie goes nowhere and
then the credits roll. 

"Everybody Wants Some!!" is a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
This was put together in an entertaining fashion. Trouble for me is
that I'd walk a mile to avoid the kind of people the film is about.
Always did, when I was younger, avoid the bullying sexist jock and
unless you are enamoured, you may not want some of a film that
celebrates them off the Richter scale.

There is also the fact that in this Mudville there are only shiny happy
people out of Hollywood wardrobe department and there's little
resemblance to reality.

That shouldn't stop those who want college and youth myths big on All
American ball-whacking, drinking, weed-smoking,
look-how-crazy-we-all-are high spirits. There will be lots of people
who want some of that.
<|_=00=_|>
I went because I thought it would be an "80's Dazed and Confused." But
it was so not that, so much better than that. I got to tell you about
it. Whereas Dazed was a "generalized" version of the 70's (with a bit
too much 90's still in the lens), this movie is about a highly specific
group of people (college baseball jocks) at a very specific moment in
time (3 days before the start of fall semester 1980, which any nerd can
tell you is still technically, not to mention stylistically still very
much part of the 70's) at a Texas university (presumably UT Austin).
Where Dazed featured over-the-top wacky 70's characters who repeated
"catch phrases", this movie is about some very real guys dealing with
the transition from being the best athlete in their high school to just
an average player at the bottom of the heap who has to get used to
being humble and proving himself. Trust me. Go to see the movie that
proves 12 years of making "Boyhood" has transformed Linklater to an
auteur without peer. This movie is so perfectly in tune, light as a
feather but with the full weight of an honest character study, played
by an ensemble cast very much in tune with one another. Memorable
characters for sure, but never overblown and always breathtakingly
real. This is an amazing film. And the soundtrack is sheer perfection.
