
We are all familiar with the story and with Steven Hawking. His
groundbreaking work 'A brief History of Time' and devastating
disabilities propelled him irrevocably into the public consciousness
and immortal fame.

But few of us could understand the complexities of his personal life
and the shocking divorce in 1990 from his long sacrificing wife of more
than 25 years. Indeed that episode served to darken his reputation in
the minds of many, including myself, who felt ill at ease with anyone
who could leave a partner who had done so much for him just at the long
awaited moment when international fame and recognition finally arrived.

This wonderful production, so well scripted and paced throughout,
serves to explain that vital anomaly in Hawking's life. And it is made
all the more poignant as it is based upon the account written by his
wife who has borne so much.

But it is the breathtaking performance of Eddie Redmayne as Hawking
that simply blasted this film into an extraordinary level. It is
difficult enough to mimic so famous a person as Hawking and it is even
more difficult to portray so accurately the debilitating and gradually
increasing effects of Motor Neuron Disease. But to transmit so clearly
the profound emotions and inner suffering that Hawking must have
experienced in his agonizing journey was a performance that left me
quite speechless and at times in uncontrollable tears.

It would be a travesty of the industry if Eddie Redmayne is not
nominated for an Oscar after this performance. And to my mind it was a
work of art that simply cannot be equaled let alone beaten.

Have a good handkerchief ready to hand.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wonderful accomplishment of a film by James Marsh (Man on Wire)
who brings such depth and beauty to the life/love story of Stephen and
Jane Hawking. The film is adapted from her novel on their life and
brings forth much of the love and tenacity necessary to care for and
love someone going through great physical struggles over time. Eddie
Redmayne and Felicity Jones give fantastic and intimate portrayals of
Stephen and Jane during their courtship and lives together. My vote for
best film at this year's Toronto International Film Festival. In Q&A
after film James Marsh told a great story about Stephen Hawking's
reaction to the film where he gave the response that it was in "largely
genuine"... and Eddie Redmayne said that Stephen Hawking after viewing
the film allowed them to use his actual "voice" instead of their
approximation for the film that they had produced. The most touching
was that Hawking had tears to be wiped away after viewing which will
give to you a sense of how genuine this film is.
<|_=00=_|>
"There should be no boundary between human endeavour," Stephen Hawking
explains during a press conference. It is this line that strikes a
chord at the very centre of James Marsh's incredible biopic on one of
the most brilliant scientists of our time. The Theory of Everything is
not just a story about the science behind the beginnings of our
universe, but the science of love; and how life's challenges that we
face everyday, shape who we are and what we achieve. Eddie Redmayne and
Felicity Jones turn in phenomenal performances as the revolutionary
Stephen Hawking and his former wife Jane Wilde. Eddie's mentally and
physically challenging role, displaying Hawkings brilliance and motor
neuron disease, are extremely commendable and impressive (a sure fire
for a Best Actor nomination at next year's Oscars). On the more
sensitive side, Felecity displays the endless love and powerful fight
Jane brought to the Hawking household. As the years pass, their lives
are changed tremendously in very profound and heart-wrenching ways. The
movie does not shy away from making Hawking a complex character, as
well as Jane, showing both their positive and negative sides. I really
liked that the movie was able to shape them into fully well-rounded
characters despite the "romance" aspect of it. The score for the film
is tremendous.. absolutely outstanding! It hits all the right marks,
brings upon emotions right when you are on the verge of tears, leaves
you in awe after a beautiful monologue, and finishes with a melancholy
but very fitting tone. The script and directing were top-notch.. right
up there with the best... and the cinematography? give that guy an
award already! A masterpiece to watch. While some critics may be quick
to judge how the film focuses more on the romance rather than the
science that made Hawking so renowned, I believe that the love is what
made him who he is today. Human endeavour is endless... Stephen never
gave up hope, nor did Jane... and though their lives ended up in
different places, it was their years together that displayed to us how
a little bit of hope can go a very, very long way.

Verdict: A beautiful story that shows how time and love are
limitless... no beginning, no end (despite his earlier hypothesis).
*****

In Theatres: November 7th, 2014 (USA), January 2, 2015 (UK)
<|_=00=_|>
Encompassing all the best parts of films like A Beautiful Mind by Ron
Howard but creating its own signature and style to the biopic genre,
James Marsh's gorgeous and beautifully compelling The Theory of
Everything, the true story of Stephen and Jane Hawking, is a sensitive
piece of filmmaking that stands as one of the finest movie efforts of
the year. Starring Eddie Redmayne as Stephen and Felicity Jones as
Jane, the two develop a masterful and sonorous dynamic that behaves as
a naturalistic relationship that inhabits qualities of both love and
sadness. They're a match made in heaven. Also acting as a morality
tale, screenwriter Anthony McCarten puts forth intriguing questions
regarding love in the shadow of someone's disability. Do you really
know what is asked of you when you vow to love someone in sickness and
in health? What happens when disability doesn't allow you to love the
way you want? Are you better off just breaking free if you have the
chance?

The film acts as a moving oil painting. Benoît Delhomme shoots to utter
perfection. Intimate in scenes requiring the viewer's undivided
attention, and taking the liberty to capture the essence of the time
where the innocence of love offers many possibilities. The scenes
ultimately feel as if we're in a dream sequence, sleeping silently as
these two lives play out in our minds.

You don't get any tears or moving feelings without the bravura score of
Jóhann Jóhannsson. Criminally overlooked last year in the grand scheme
of things for his work on Prisoners, the composer orchestrates his best
score of his career. Very likely not just my favorite score of the year
so far but one of mine in the last few years. From the opening credits,
Jóhannsson puts his stamp with heavy violins and beautiful piano
playing. In the end credits, you can sit and marvel as the names cross
the screen with the music that accompanies it.

When it comes to biopics, people tend to automatically give credit to
makeup and body language when talking about a performer. Past winners
like Jamie Foxx in Ray have always felt empty as a performance but
people were so tied in with the mannerisms that he brought to the role,
which he often did in his stand up comedy routines. In Eddie Redmayne,
we get a fully realized and tender performance. The first twenty
minutes of the film, prior to the diagnosis of Hawking's disease,
Redmayne utilizes all the quick wit and charm to show what his Stephen
loved the most of his work and his woman. Obviously going through the
physical transformation must be rewarded. Contorting his body and
learning the physical tics that Stephen Hawking has displayed in real
life all ring true. Since his breakout work in Les Miserables, a role
that should have landed him a nomination for Best Supporting Actor, I
was wary to believe I'd revisit a praising session with the young actor
so soon. It's one of the best things offered this year.

When it comes to Felicity Jones, the emotional backbone of the entire
process has to be awarded to her. With stunning works in Like Crazy
under her belt, Jones takes upon a daunting and heavily emotional
character, never afraid to have the audience dislike or be disappointed
in what she's doing. Marsh directs her to astonishing resolve. As a
leading lady, Jones ignites such fiery and compelling questions not
necessarily asked before in a biopic such as this. Complex and
staggering in the way she decides to portray the brave Jane, Jones
allows her character to grow, and both live and learn inside of her.
What's most remarkable about Jones is she makes everything seem so
effortless. She's not faking anything, she's really feeling and
becoming Jane. She locates all the emotions required of her to execute
successfully. It's a turn I wouldn't be surprised to see runaway with
the Academy Award for Best Actress.

The supporting players are no shortage of talent, though secondary to
this type of story. Charlie Cox was just as good in his screen time. As
Jonathan, Cox lays it all out on the table, heart on sleeve, and soul
bared for all of us to see. David Thewlis, Emily Watson, and Simon
McBurney are all solid but brief.

Production Designer John Paul Kelly and Costume Designer Steven Noble
should be commended for their meticulous craft in bringing the time
period to the screen. An Oxford University dormitory along with a dozen
outfits worn by all the characters can easily be taken for granted in a
film like this.

Screenwriter Anthony McCarten adapts his script from the book
"Travelling to Infinity: My life with Stephen" which was written by
Jane Hawking. Audiences like their fair share of love stories, but some
of them, rather most of them, don't like the ugly that goes with it. In
real life, people make mistakes, and do things that can make some
cringe. I believe some of the more questionable and controversial
things during the Hawkings marriage was merely glossed over to not
paint them negatively, even though the world is well aware of what went
on. I'll be honest, I knew next to nothing about Stephen Hawking and
his work prior to sitting for the movie. I knew the robot voice and
that's where it about ended. If anything, the film inspires me to learn
more about Stephen's work and theories presented. All of those things
are definitely given a back seat to a film that doesn't really require
them. The Theory of Everything is not about the equations or the
mathematics. It's essentially about us. It's about love, and not just
in the form of marriage. We as humans learn to love ourselves, our
families, and our children. They are placed in our lives but I'm not
sure how much we realize what goes into maintaining those
relationships. The movie makes you think of those things.
<|_=00=_|>
The Theory of Everything tells the uphill struggle that world renowned
genius Stephen Hawking went through when dealing with his, now,
infamous disease and trying to maintain his relationship with his
loving wife, Jane. The strengths of this film rely solely on Eddie
Redmayne and Felicity Jones. These two actors are absolutely, one
hundred percent, PHENOMENAL in these two roles. Stephen Hawking is the
role that Redmayne was born to play. Hawking is portrayed as a charming
and intellectually superior individual that behaves just like any one
else. After a bit, we start to wonder what was every so amazing about
him...then the heartbreak starts. Jane Hawking is a sweet, loving and
determined person that will go to the lengths of the universe to make
sure her husband, Stephen can survive. I get chills just thinking about
certain scenes, some of which will most definitely be requiring a large
box of Kleenex. The truth is, anything that I say here about these
performances, no matter what it is, is still criminally underselling
the sheer brilliance of them. Eddie Redmayne and Felicity Jones are
simply incredible and I'd be even willing to go to the extreme to say
that both actors will not only be nominated, but I'd be surprised if
they didn't win the Oscar gold. Now, with that being said, this film's
structural issues are severely hampering this film's chances at being a
classic. I wasn't completely sold on the structural integrity of the
film. It showed enough of the relationship aspect behind Stephen and
Jane but it very briefly touched base on Hawking's intellectual
discoveries and I thought that if it was a bit more balanced in that
respect, it would be a near perfect film. One plot point that I did
find utterly enthralling is the idea that Hawking struggles throughout
the film to do simple things. These scenes are, by far, the most heart
wrenching scenes to watch. James Marsh directs his actors effortlessly
and can evoke the type of emotional response out of his audience
through them, but when left with telling a story, Marsh falters. Marsh,
known for 2012 IRA drama, Shadow Dancer proves that he is an actor's
director. He cares about human drama over anything in a tangible sense,
which benefits this film greatly but also harms it in the way of
progression. Despite these minor infractions, The Theory of Everything
is a film that everyone can enjoy and turns into a real audience movie.
It is a film that will have you laughing one minute and crying the
next, no easy feat for any film, and this one does it effortlessly.
<|_=00=_|>
The curse of most biopics about famous individuals is that the films in
question always boil down a subjects life to a "greatest hits" reel and
then stuffs the rest of the run time with a sub-narrative to tie all
these moments together. More often than not, this sub-narrative is a
love story, which isn't inherently bad; it's just that when a proper
balance isn't struck between the major themes and the filler, the
results are usually lackluster. "The Theory Of Everything" charts the
tumultuous marriage of legendary physicist Stephen Hawking and his wife
Jane as they struggle to keep their life together while Stephen slowly
succumbs to the symptoms of ALS. And while it puts all of its efforts
into trying to be a heartbreaking portrait of a strained marriage (a
portrait that at times is quite beautiful), the movie seemingly forgets
that one of its subjects also happened to be one of the most brilliant
minds of the 20th century.

Stephen Hawking (Eddie Redmayne) and Jane Wilde (Felicity Jones) meet
in college and forge a bond through the universal law of "opposites
attract". Jane believes in romance and poetry and God, while Stephen
believes in logic and reason and the rejection of what he calls a
"celestial dictatorship". Jane is pursuing an education in the written
word while Stephen seeks to find a unifying theory that can explain
life, the universe, and everything. The two fall in love, only to face
a roadblock when Stephen is diagnosed with a neurological disorder that
threatens to destroy his motor skills one by one, giving him two years
at most to live. Jane pledges to stay by his side, and although Stephen
beats the odds and manages to live year after year, the struggles of
caring for her crippled husband take their toll on Jane.

If the above description seems like it forgot to mention that Stephen
Hawking was a world famous physicist whose theories were revolutionary
and world changing, it's because for the most part, the movie forgets
this too. The most we see of Stephen's career is regulated to the
beginning and end of the movie, with passing mentions made to the
evolution of his work made whenever the film needs to remind the
audience of where we are in history; such as in a moment shortly after
the birth of Stephen's third child, when his father mentions that
Stephen is "world famous". Having never seen Stephen working on
anything beyond giving a lecture or two, we never actually see how he
got to this point. It's frustrating, because the film doesn't seem to
want to find a way to balance "Stephen the Husband" with "Stephen the
Physicist", and so we watch as The Physicist is shoved to the margins.

Not that the story of Jane and Stephen is terrible, it's just that its
good moments are few and far in between. A lot of these struggles
manifest in tropes so familiar, there was a point when I really felt
that this could've been any story about a husband and wife dealing with
the pain of a partner's disease. The fact that it involves Stephen and
Jane Hawking is, at times, almost entirely inconsequential. These flaws
aren't helped by some of the film's problematic directing and editing
choices. Certain scenes seem to trail on after they clearly should've
ended, and important characters are thrown into the film far too late,
only to disappear again without mention. When Emily Watson showed up
almost an hour in without being identified, I was left baffled until
Felicity Jones drops a "Mum" in her line to signify who she's speaking
to. Why are we meeting such an important person in Jane's life, played
by such a serious actress, this late in the movie? It's just one
example of some of the sloppy structure choices made by director James
Marsh.

It's only Eddie Redmayne, who truly makes his presence as an actor
known here, that keeps the movie from sinking into the muddy bog of
familiarity. As Stephen loses more and more of his basic motor skills,
Redmayne finds ways to make every movement count, whether it's a
playful smirk or a downward glance of pain. His chemistry with Felicity
Jones, who turns the inner conflict of Jane's struggles into a
revelatory performance of its own, is endearing; and when the two are
allowed to flex their acting muscles they create some of the films
greatest moments. Honorable mentions also go to Benoît Delhomme's
gorgeous cinematography and Jóhann Jóhannsson's powerful score.

Ultimately "The Theory Of Everything" has joined the ranks of "Ray" and
"Jobs" and "Dallas Buyers Club": performance pieces more concerned with
winning acting awards than telling a good story. As memorable as
Redmayne and Jones are, their talents only serve to turn a film that
would've been completely forgettable into "good but not great". The
Hawking's deserved better.
<|_=00=_|>
Before going into and seeing, The Theory of Everything, I really did
not know too much about Stephen Hawking. I of course knew who he was
and that he was a famous physicist for his work on black holes and
other such matters and I had also seen video clips and photos of him,
but really knew otherwise next to nothing about him and I have never
actually read any of his books, but after seeing the film I am a little
tempted and curious to do so, even if the subject matter does go over
my head a bit (I both did poorly and did not enjoy high school physics
class). On the other hand, those who go into The Theory of Everything,
looking for an elaborate account of Hawking's work and his science and
the method behind his work, then those people may be in for a bit of a
letdown as this story while it does focus on Hawking's life, it mostly
focuses on his long marriage and relationship with his wife, Jane, who
wrote the book on which the film is based on. The film focuses heavily
on the relationship between Stephen and his wife, Jane and the
hardships they had to deal with due to his various health problems that
he developed when they first become interested in each other till the
present time. Eddie Redmayne, who plays Hawking, does a phenomenal job
here. He starts out as a shy, somewhat bookish and nerdy student who
has a fair bit of humour to him and also has a love of education and
finding out the big questions and answers of the world. As his illness
develops and progresses over the years, we see how hard it is for him
to move, speak and just do everyday things whereas he is eventually
confined to a wheelchair and has to speak through a computer.
Redmayne's performance is so believable and must have been really hard
to pull off as we see him struggle to eat, walk, speak and just how he
twists his face and muscles and how much physical difficulty and pain
is involved in this as well as his strong desire to succeed and to
achieve more and more each day is evident in Redmayne's wonderful
performance which must have been exhausting and difficult to play, but
he does an excellent job here in what I think is one of the year's best
performances. Equally good here is Felicity Jones, who plays Jane.
While the role is not as demanding physically, it is more demanding
emotionally as we see her totally devote herself to all of Stephen's
every waking needs and how she went out of her way to both care and
love for him. At times it was certainly difficult and I am sure she
just wanted to give up, but we also as in him, see her determination to
make things work and she is an incredibly strong person and character
and you can see that everything she does has her full best and
wonderful intentions. Her performance is an emotional one and is
beautifully and brilliantly portrayed as well and is also one of the
year's best performances. When the film first started out, I thought it
would be a fairly safe and by the numbers biopic, but it really took me
by surprise at how interesting I found these characters, their lives
and the situations they found themselves in. Again because of the
brilliant performances and masterful script and direction we can both
care for and have empathy for these characters as well as personally
cheer them on and wish all the best for them as we are sitting quietly
in our theatre screens glued to the screen with captivation and
interest. The film has an excellent pace to it and works well as a
biographical film, but works even better as a story of love and the
difficulties and sacrifices it took to make it work and just how strong
both Stephen and his wife are at the end of this film after all they
have gone through. It really is an inspirational and feel good film
when you think about it after all they accomplished and went through.
Sure there are moments of heartache and when we see them suffer, but it
is not all grim. We also see moments of happiness and how these two,
from the second they met, really do love each other and had a marriage
full of trust and devotion to one another. The film is doing well in
limited release and expanded wider in theatres this week and I feel
very privileged to have been able to see it on the big screen. It is
thoroughly fascinating from start to finish and features two of this
year's most believable and best performances and also gives us hope and
encouragement while we may be not exactly in their same circumstances,
but for other things as well. The Theory of Everything, is a real
triumph and one of the best films of 2014.
<|_=00=_|>
But it does tell an inspiring story about Stephen Hawking's personal
struggle with his illness that's very uplifting.

The story of Stephen Hawking and his then wife Jane, apparently based
on a book she wrote about it, which probability explains why there was
not much science in the movie, not that I'm complaining, as it was a
well played film about a difficult relationship.

I didn't known Stephen and his wife actually met around the same time
as he began to suffer from Lou Gehrig's Disease. Makes the whole
concept that Hawking has three kids with this woman more interesting
(something was working). Felicity Jones did a great job playing such a
strong, patient, and compassionate woman, all well narrated in this
movie. The difficulty Jane Hawking had being with a man getting trapped
in his own body, played by Eddie Redmayne.I have herd of Hawking's
surprisingly positive personality, not because of his condition, but
because I expected his condition would make it hard to express any
emotion. Redmayne did his research to express the struggle of Hawking
on camera nicely (I keep forgetting The Hawking is a Brit).

This movie turned out to be a great one about the time span of a
relationship. Done more romantically than borderline soft-core flicks
like Blue is the warmest color and 9 songs, and it was not as
depressing as Blue Valentine. it was just a true take on a complex
relationship taking it's toll, well performed by some brilliant actors.

If your looking to watch this movie to hear some science talk, that's
not what the movie is really about, unless ironically convincing the
world of his theories on time was really as easy as the movie makes it
out for Hawking. Overall very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is highly recommended.

You can certainly tell it's Oscar time when all the more dignified and
personal projects inundate the movie houses in hopes of capturing the
gold. For most of the other nine months, we get lesser efforts and big
blockbuster spectacles to fill-in until late October arrives. Then,
it's time to get serious about our cinema choices. The Theory of
Everything is one such film. It carries its pedigree with style and
class, even if it is a rather conventional biopic in disguise, with its
main character suffering through a debilitating disease while finding
the stamina to go on.

With a very literate screenplay by Anthony McCarten and accomplished
direction by James Marsh, the film tells the story of famed scientist
Stephen Hawking and his battle with ALS. It also concentrates on his
relationship with his supportive and loving wife, Jane.

Love will conquer all. Or so it should. But the horrors of this disease
and the hardships they face seem unsurmountable. We see the couple
meet, fall in love, marry, have children, and grow weary of each other.
Stephen achieves adoration, fame, and fortune while Jane takes a back
seat to her caregiver role and bringing up the family, amid the tears
and frustration they face on a daily basis. One immediately empathizes
with these characters due to their tragic situations.

The two leads are splendid and their acting is peerless. Felicity Jones
plays Jane. Her role may be less showy and far more understated, but
the actress is perfect at showing Jane's endurance and strength in the
subtlest of ways. Eddie Redmayne is Stephen Hawking and his performance
is literally trans-formative. (He must have learned his craft from tons
of research about Hawking and creative influence from Daniel Day
Lewis.) This is an impressive physical performance, from his black horn
rimmed glasses to his walking cane and distorted posture. Both will
receive well-earned accolades for their memorable work. Fine supporting
work by Charlie Cox as Jonathan, their loyal friend, and Simon McBurney
as Stephen's father add more clarity to the film.

As with most biographical films, one sees the rise and fall of the
protagonist before it arrives. This film follows that tries-and-true
formula. But Marsh's direction compensates for the linear structure and
predictability of the story. The director relies heavily on his actors'
subtle actions to tell more about their characters than the mere words
they speak. He also wisely shows Hawking's point of view by angling the
camera range from a lower stance or keeping it stationary to reinforce
the characters' immobility. The final scene, recapping Hawking's life
in reverse, beautifully sums up Stephen's life full circle in the most
visual of terms.

But The Theory of Everything is foremost a love story. The film
desperately wants to be a crowd-pleaser with an uplifting message of
inspiration, even when the reality and truth of their actual lives is
bleaker than it appears on screen. The film glosses over some factual
content to play up the human drama of this pair of young lovers. It
skillfully manipulates its audience to wallow in the heartbreak.
Director Marsh successfully capture the pangs of young love and
bittersweet romance in this emotionally involving film. 

The Theory of Everything is an immensely satisfying film with stand-out
acting and skilled direction. The proof is right there on the screen,
even if the facts are slightly askew. GRADE: B+

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
<|_=00=_|>
A biopic of Stephen Hawking, mostly focused on his relationship with
his first wife, Jane (the film is based on her own autobiography). It
has little interest in what Stephen Hawking is about, except for very
cursorily. I guess that's not a huge problem, but, frankly, I don't
know that much about Hawking and wished I had gotten to learn more from
this movie. It does deal a lot with his disease and health struggles,
which I suppose many are more interested in. The film will surely be
most notable for its two lead performances. Eddie Redmayne certainly
nails the physical side of Hawking and projects a very clear character.
Felicity Jones, though, does better work as the woman who has to work
very hard to make their lives work. No one else really registers much
(though David Thewlis and Emma Watson, among many others, are
featured), but that doesn't really matter. The filmmaking is competent
but not notable. James Marsh, best known for his documentaries Man on
Wire and Project Nim, has done good work in feature filmmaking before
with the underrated The King. Here he doesn't get much to register. My
favorite thing besides the lead performances was the very pleasant
score, by Johan Johansson. Probably worth seeing on video, but don't go
out of your way.
