
Unlike the review below, I actually seen the movie, the movies is full
of some amazing, but long underwater scenes, and some suspenseful
moments. The movie does promote they true meaning of rescue
rehabilitate and release, especially when morals con into play, when it
comes to Winter's fate and a Dolphin Named Mandy. Many times throughout
the movies it is said that these animals are "Wild animals" as well as
when Asked if it was possible would Clay release winter. his response
is one he puts into perspective from when he started the hospital. Just
like in dolphins tale, before the credits role and after the ending,
they show the actual stories of Mandy's release and Hope's rescue.

It does not promote captivity, but it does bring a reality of what
happens when a companion animal is needed for an unreleasable one,
either they're paired up or moved to a park which can provide one.
Unlike the previous reviewer, I believe ALL SHOULD FORM THEIR OWN
OPINIONS. You should go to the movie if you like and bring your kids
I'm sure they would love to see the movie as well. MAKE YOUR OWN
OPINIONS Don't GIVE INTO THOSE WHO ARE SADLY MISINFORMED.
<|_=00=_|>
"You can't just throw two dolphins in the water together."

And that's basically the only conflict driving the plot for this
sequel. I was a huge fan of Charles Martin Smith's first film starring
Winter, the dolphin with the prosthetic tail, but there isn't anything
appealing about this sequel which barely has a plot. I felt that there
was never really much at stake here and many of the emotional moments
felt forced, unlike in the first film where there was a lot at stake.
There were a lot of fillings and subplots that never did anything to
help build the pacing, and despite remaining family friendly, most
children will probably be bored by this sequel. I never got engaged
with it and perhaps much of that had to do with the weak script and the
lack of conflict. The characters which I really liked the first time
around didn't do anything for me in this sequel and I didn't feel that
same connection they had with Winter this time around. Dolphin Tale 2
has all the right ingredients for a direct to DVD movie, but somehow it
has been released in the big screen and received some positive reviews
from the critics (only 4% lower than Interstellar according to
Rottentomatoes). It astonishes me considering this film is formulaic
and predictable with very little going for it. A week from now everyone
will forget about it. 

The true star of the franchise is Winter, but in this sequel we really
don't get to see the dolphin all that much. There really isn't much at
stake either, and we know how everything is going to play out. The cast
is back again, which means we get some cameos from Morgan Freeman,
Ashley Judd, and Kris Kristofferson, but they aren't given any
substantial role this time around. The film centers once again on the
child actors, Nathan Gamble and Cozi Zuehlsdorff, who deliver solid
performances but don't add much to the story. From the first scene you
can tell that the producers were simply trying to cash in after the
success of the first film because there is not much going for it story
wise. The true story is inspirational and the original film has touched
many people's lives, but there wasn't any need for a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this with my movie theatre-working friend. We both enjoyed
this true-life sequel about Winter's acting strangely especially after
the death of a fellow dolphin early in the film. Since Hazel and Sawyer
are a little older and practically young adults, there's a hint of a
budding romance between them though the main focus is on Winter and
another possible new playmate named Hope. All the cast from the
previous one is back and Morgan Freeman's character is allowed to say
some witty lines that my friend found funny while I was a little amused
at them. Actor Charles Martin Smith is the writer/director and he
appears as the guy telling the Harry Connick Jr. character he has 30
days to fix whatever violations he cited. In summary, Dolphin Tale 2
was pretty enjoyable for a true-life sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great family movie. Written based on the real story is
reflects on the true motto of Clearwater Marine Aquarium: "rescue,
rehabilitate & release" The movie does not promote cruelty or keeping
animals in captivity. If the dolphin or the turtle health bill is good
and the animal is able to survive on its own then the crew release it
back into the ocean. Harry Connick Jr. plays Dr Clay Haskett, and when
asked if it was possible for Winter to survive on her own would he let
her go. His answer: right this minute! As it is the animals that stay
in the aquarium are either too seriously injured or with other medical
reasons (dolphin Panama, that was keeping Winter company, was deaf and
not able to echo-locate food and feed herself) The acting is good,
story line simple enough for kids to follow and some moments you find
yourself holding breath waiting for what is next. And after watching
the movie you may want to visit real stars Winter & Hope in Clearwater,
FL.
<|_=00=_|>
Enjoyable sequel that finds Winter the dolphin struggling with the
death of her friend Panama. Meanwhile, Sawyer (Nathan Gamble) gets an
offer to attend a special marine research program for three months but
isn't sure he is ready to go. Like the first movie it's based on real
events and the dolphins Winter and Hope appear here as themselves. The
cast from the last one also returns, with reduced roles for Morgan
Freeman, Ashley Judd, and Kris Kristofferson. But that's okay because
the two kids (now young teens) and the dolphins are the stars. There's
a budding romantic subplot with Sawyer and Hazel that is six kinds of
cute. Also fun is the comic relief pelican that has a subplot involving
a turtle. It's a nice, positive family movie with a likable cast and
good message.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen the original "Dolphin Tale" and appreciated it, there's
not much change here. What worked in the first film probably works here
just the same for the most part. The characters are a bit older and
mature, mostly the younger ones. Clay Haskett (Connick Jr.) The viewer
doesn't really know how these problems are going to be solved but for
the most part, at the end, people are probably going to be generally
happy. I was pleasantly surprised with the amount of inappropriate
language and romance present in this PG movie. There was virtually
none. Which is what I generally expect, but I am usually surprised what
can be present in a PG movie these days. The montage at the end
included real footage from the actual rescues present in the movie and
clips from people with disabilities and artificial limbs at the
sanctuary to interact with and see the dolphins. Pretty cool and
inspiring. A good story, positive characters doing the right thing, and
a decent ending = a pretty positive movie for kids and families.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I don't remember the first time I got a hug nor do I recall the
first time I ate ice cream, I do recall the first pet I head. It was a
white fluffy cat named Cepe. I had to have been three or four when that
animal first sat on my lap. Coincidentally, this was about the time
when my family and I moved from Long Beach, CA to Murrieta, CA. I have
to stop there as just having the animal is all I remember. He ran away
at some point, but the memory of the animal is still fresh along with
the other pet's I've had because of the connection I've made. 

A lot of people think there's a telekinetic relationship between
animals and the people that they love. I'm on that same wavelength as I
believe that my two dogs have an understanding of my emotions, even
though they don't have those same spirits. So I can understand why
animal volunteers and even scientists claim that they have something
with animals that people don't understand. It's something about our
connection to other species that we as mankind can apply to our
prejudices. This connection is examined with sea life in Dolphin Tale
2.

The original movie was about the tail-less dolphin named Winter who was
rescued and given a prosthetic fin that gave back it's ability to swim. 

Now the boy that rescued her, Sawyer (played by Nathan Gamble) is now
in high school and is studying to be a marine biologist while
continuing to volunteer at the marine hospital that's become a
successful aquarium. Dr. Clay Haskett (played by Harry Connick, Jr.),
his daughter Hazel (played by Cozi Zuehlsdorff) and the rest of the
staff have been juggling around keeping a clean attraction while caring
for the sea turtles, fish, and it's star, Winter. 

Sawyer is offered a scholarship for a semester at sea program that
could be great for him, but he's contemplating whether he can spend
months away from the dolphin he loves. At the same time, another
dolphin named Panama has passed away. This causes Winter to seemed
distressed and even puts Sawyer in danger. Sawyer and Hazel are looking
at a new dolphin named Mandy to be paired with Winter, but that fails
when the animal heals and needs to be released. Dr. Clay Haskett does
everything he can to hold off the government from transferring Winter
to another park as they try and find another dolphin to be a suitable
companion.

Without sounding like a party pooper, I'll say that the first Dolphin
Tale was not a good movie to begin with. I found the material schmaltzy
but at least harmless enough to recommended for kids who haven't seen
the "boy and his animal" story. Dolphin Tale 2 is more or less the
same. It is harmless and will probably eat up marine animal lovers and
families looking for something educational and/or inspirational. But
for a twenty-something guy like me, it's just overbearing.

Without critiquing the subject matter, my problem with the movie is
that it's too long for it's own good. The first forty five minutes are
spent with Winter, until the focus is suddenly shifted on Hazel and her
healing a sea turtle. Once the turtle is back in the ocean, it's like
the movie realized that there's a fin-less dolphin here and goes back
to that. The focus is all over the place and much of the swimming shots
of the animals go on for so long, you'd think that Sea World directed
this thing. 

I'll give this five prosthetic fins out of ten. Dolphin Tale 2 is only
for the audience of this first movie. I doubt that Game of Throne fans
or Marvel Superhero geeks are gonna get anything out of this, but it's
harmless enough that I still say is a passable option for families
searching for something more wholesome. If your that kind of person,
then take this dive with the dolphins.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I usually enjoy movies I take my kids to go see (3 and 5 years old
who are totally addicted to sea life), but this film was very hard to
watch. The story structure was forgotten in a poorly written script.
The actors were fine with what they were given, but they could not even
reel us in. The best part was the end! Really the end when they showed
the real life events. They should have made this a documentary instead!
My kiddos would have loved the documentary version instead. They were
completely restless(which they usually are not as we have seen free
Willy, the cove, the dolphin, the story of a dreamer Daniel dolphin,
Namu, Blackfish, and so many more. BTW...so was I .
<|_=00=_|>
Review: Although this movie is based on a true story,
it' extremely corny and I personally found it slightly patronising.
Don't get me wrong, I did feel for the dolphin who lost his friend
because he had to be released back to the sea because of old age but I
just couldn't take the storyline seriously. After getting threatened by
there investors and the inspection team, the owners of the sea world
struggle to keep it open and now that they only have one dolphin, the
park is trouble. When another dolphin becomes available, they struggle
to make the 2 dolphins become friends and they eventually work out that
its due to the fact that the male dolphin doesn't have a tale and the
female can't accept it. This is when Morgan Freeman gets involved and
he builds another tale for the dolphin so the female can accept him and
become friends. The film is SO Disney! All of the characters seem to be
floating on air and there only care in the world are the animals in the
park. Anyway, I wasn't a big fan of the first movie so I should have
known what to expect from this one. The one thing that I was impressed
with was the animals who told a brilliant story by themselves and it
must have taken hours of training. The top actors like Morgan Freeman,
Ashley Judd and Kris Kristofferson only pop in and out of the film a
few times so the kids were taking control with the help of Harry
Connick Jr., who has been missing of the big screen for some time. I
must admit, I did find the kids annoying but I don't think that it was
made for a movie addict like me. Its more for a family on a nice day
out at the cinema with popcorn and a large drink, than for a man like
me who analyses every single word. At the end of the day, it's target
audience should be satisfied but I struggled to stay awake. Great for
the kids. Bad for the adults!  

Round-Up:  The big stars of this movie has to be the animals,
especially the grumpy looking tortoise and the stork who stuck his beak
into everything. You can't help but fall in love with the dolphins and
there intelligent minds and this movie really does show that they have
got a bad attitude just like adults do. They also can feel loneliness
and get upset when there best friend has been taken from them! Anyway,
I had to keep in mind that this was a true story and the real footage
at the end does show that the director stayed true to what really
happened. The problem was that it just wasn't that entertaining. It was
more of a look behind the scenes of a theme park, which must be
difficult to maintain. I appreciate the different circumstances that
the workers have to adapt to but when you tell the story with a Disney
format, you can't really take it that seriously. It more or less,
carries on from the first movie so if you was a fan of the first
outing, then you should enjoy this movie.

Budget: $36million Worldwide Gross: $52.5million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their light hearted fun
movies about a dolphin who gets upset when his friend is sent back to
sea because of his age. 4/10 
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching the first one, and remember being surprised at the
bad reviews it got. I know this one will not win hardcore critics'
hearts either, and might even empathize with them, but yet, for some,
this is a mainstream movie that needs to be watched at the local
multiplex, preferably with family.

For those who have not seen the 1st one, what I'm about to cover might
constitute spoiler territory for that one. For the rest, it should be
OK. Since the struggle in making Winter swim has been dispensed with in
the first movie, this movie handles the operations of the CWA, which
rescues, rehabilitates and releases animals needing its care, in that
order. It is a nice subject to dwell on, further enhanced by giving the
supporting characters quite a bit of room to breath, while keeping a
few others cardboard-like (notice the disservice done to the love lives
of all the leads, and the plastic caricatures we are presented of
characters inhabited by Harry Connick Jr., Ashley Judd and Kris
Kristofferson - I can understand them wanting to be a part of this
project, and I can understand the makers wanting the PG rating, but you
can push your envelope just a tad in the interest of keeping things
down to earth, no pun intended, since this is mostly aquatic). 

Which is not to say I'm nitpicking, since the antics of Mavis, Mandy,
Rufus, Hope and Winter keep everyone entertained almost throughout that
the afterthoughts that are the rest just remain that - afterthoughts.
However, to me, that is the difference between a movie that just about
does its job, and one that treads into the realm of TV movie territory,
esp. one that suits Lifetime channel the best, or in this case, even
Disney. A missed opportunity of sorts. 

There are some life lessons that are spread throughout, and that is
where I think watching the movie with younger members of the family
might just be the way to go, since there could be so many inspiring
conversations one could have, about healing, hope, faith, willpower,
success and the like, all of which this movie serves to highlight not
just in anecdotal lip-service form.

The number of times the various leads refer to the dolphins as wild
animals, though appropriate, and kinda guidance-providing, belies the
fact of how their characters treated the same animals with more empathy
during the first outing. It's almost as if someone told them to be more
politically correct, and they ended up toeing the line. 

One thing I did not notice in the first outing was that this one has
been competently helmed by Charles Martin Smith, the 4th 'Untouchable',
him of the infamy 'what happened to that dude who was in 'The
Untouchables' while everyone else got famous'. I kinda dug the way he
chose to let the story do the talking, and has shot this like he shot
its predecessor, in a laid-back, unhurried fashion, that lets every
frame linger on just that much longer, favoring long takes and
conversations. Which is why his decisions wrt certain key supporting
characters seem surprising in retrospect.

The performances of the teen leads are muted, but serviceable. The
veterans are picking up paychecks, but they're capable of so much more.
As a friend of mine causally remarked, Ashley Judd was better served in
'Divergent' than by being in this one. Not their fault though - I'm
happy they agreed to reprise their roles instead of asking stand-ins to
do so.

For some strange reason, they've not shot this on 3D, and have elected
to release in plan 2D. While I am NOT a fan of wearing glasses
throughout the running length of a movie, I thought that 3D enhanced
the viewing pleasure of the first one, and this unexplained preference
of 1 format over the other, while the surcharge can get some footfalls,
escapes me still.

All in all, worth that trek to the cinema.
