
It's a bold statement but I stand by it. This movie had everything I
wanted and a hell of a lot more. The plot in a nutshell is that a guy
named David (Dan Stevens) goes to the house of a soldier who was KIA
and claims to have known him personally, so the family invites him to
stay. Then things start happening, secrets come out, and sh*t goes
down. Simple premise, and if it sounds familiar it's probably because
it's been done many times, but never quite with as much finesse as The
Guest. 

The writer and director are the same team that brought us You're Next
and a few segments from V/H/S and V/H/S/2. Personally I loved You're
Next - it was a straight up horror comedy with little to no surprises.
Here, the duo hone their strengths into their magnum opus so to speak.
The Guest is an action thriller, but there are a lot more elements at
work. It's dramatic, it's funny, it's intense, and it gets pretty
frightening at times. The scope seems very wide but it all flows
together without a hitch, and each emotional reaction keeps your eyes
glued to the screen waiting for what happens next. 

The Guest is held together by its lead, Dan Stevens. I haven't seen him
in anything before this but he was flawless in this role as an
enigmatic, seemingly charming family friend. David is immensely
likable, even when questionable things start happening you still want
to root for the guy. He just has a badass aura around him. Dan Stevens
plays him with such conviction that you can't see through him and you
have no idea what is going on in his head, but you know that there's
more to him than meets the eye.

When I say sh*t goes down in this movie, I mean it. Sh*t. Goes. Down. I
won't spoil anything but The Guest has one of the most stylish,
suspenseful, colorful, and downright invigorating third acts in a movie
I've seen in a while. It's f*cking magnificent. Some people are split
on this opinion but honestly, I thought it was an absolute blast. It
takes place in a Halloween fun house; as soon as it began I turned into
a giddy schoolgirl. Yeah, it's just that much fun. The first two acts
are impeccable as well, building up the tension and suspense to a level
of tangibility that you can cut with a knife. 

The characters surrounding David are all great as well. They're your
typical family, and although it may seem like they're just caricatures,
they are completely convincing in their roles largely due to the
realistic dialogue. Everything progresses believably and exactly how
you'd want it to, and the predictability is a strength in this case
because it gives the filmmakers a chance to make the simple premise as
shiny and creative as possible. I was not bored for a minute of this
movie. The soundtrack is phenomenal too - it has an '80s thriller vibe
and a lot of dark electronic grooves similar to those in You're Next
but even better.

The Guest is an action-thriller buff's wet dream, and it even throws in
some horror for good measure. It really is one of the most underrated
movies of 2014 and an experience that no thriller fan should miss out
on.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never watched Downton Abbey, but I'm guessing that Dan Stevens
deliberately sought out very different roles after leaving the show.
The Guest is the perfect advert for his abilities. He's convincing as
the mysterious but charming visitor and equally capable in moments of
action, suspense or humour. I hope the right roles come along for him
as he's entertaining to watch and has got everything required to become
a major star.

The plot unfolds in a fashion that renders a summary both unnecessary
and unwanted if you're planning to see this, but after the initial
set-up it progresses at a decent pace and with escalating tension.

A special mention is required for the soundtrack. The electronic score
is one of the film's major strengths and is perfectly judged.

An entertaining and self-aware mix of action, suspense and dark humour,
the Guest has a retro feel without being old fashioned (a quality that
is encapsulated by the score), and features decent performances.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Wingard's last effort You're Next suffered from too much hype
and it didn't entirely work for me. Now he returns with an action movie
of sorts with some slasher elements thrown in with The Guest and this
is a home run. It is a slick and entertaining action thriller that
hearkens back to the same kind of movies from the 80's with its own
modern touches along with a great soundtrack and a great performance
from Dan Stevens.

Good: Dan Stevens is the glue that binds this movie together. He exudes
vulnerability and charm that you just can't help but like the guy and
yet he still retains some sinister vibes underneath that smiling
exterior. He knocks it out of the park and when things amp up he
delivers on that front also. I really like the family in this movie.
They were all likable and I was concerned for their well being which
isn't something that a lot of these movies tend to successfully pull
of. Maika Monroe turns in a strong performance. The direction is very
slick and it has a nice atmosphere to it. The action is swift and hits
hard without going too over the top. The music is another plus with its
80's style synth pop that makes every scene that much more enjoyable.

Bad: The movie never truly surprises with its twists and turns and it
is a pretty straightforward thriller.

Overall, it doesn't do anything new, but it does so in style with great
performances, slick action, and an awesome soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to the cinema with no expectations with this movie. I watched
the trailer and assumed it will be some average movie but I was totally
mistaken. The film is very fast paced with surprisingly some humor
throughout. There was a lot of gruesome fight scenes (I personally jump
watching violent scenes) but I get the reasons why they were there. Dan
Stevens was a complete shocker with his performance. If you remember
him from Downtown Abbey, his performance here is amazing! He portrays a
brilliant character and he does an amazing American accent. All the
actors were perfectly cast for this movie. I loved Maika Monroe, she
reminded me a lot of Brittany Murphy and Gwen Stefani. The ending was
totally not expected and I loved every bit. The music played reminded
me a bit of Drive soundtrack but worked brilliant with this movie. I
truly recommend the movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
While the second half is forgettable action fun. A very uneven movie,
which raises enormous expectations in those first 40 minutes, but
ultimately can't deliver. We, the viewer, are still left with half of a
marvelous movie. The main actor is incredible. Not in the Pacino sense,
but more in the Schwarzenegger sense. He creates an iconic character,
which is extremely sympathetic and scary at the same time. The writing
has some obvious plotting issues, but all the way through you'll come
across terrifically written scenes. The direction and overall acting is
top notch. But to me, the greatest thing about the film ia its use of
music. It has one of the best soundtracks I've heard in a movie for a
long time. Think Miami Vice crossed with Brad Fiedel's work on the The
Terminator. Really effective stuff.

Like I said, the second half is forgettable and formulaic, but still
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
The only thing surprising in The Guest is just how straight forward it
is in its simple plotting. Everything unfolds in predictable fashion,
but this B material is a fantastic showcase of wicked humor and
misanthropic violence. Dan Stevens is in excellent form here, as a
mysterious soldier who shows up unannounced at a family's home of a
fallen soldier he served with. He's all smiles and very polite, but
people with a usually negative connection with this family start
meeting grisly ends. Like in his previous film You're Next, Adam
Wingard approaches plotting you've seen a million times and wittily
turns it on its ear without ever being too self aware. It's a shame
Picturehouse who acquired the US rights dumped the film in a handful of
theaters without trying to capitalize on the strong reviews and never
bothered to expand it theatrically. The Guest is a quick fun time that
knows exactly what it is and delivers without overstaying its welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
It feels almost inaccurate to refer to this movie as The Guest when in
reality it was entirely carried by a wonderful performance by Dan
Stevens. I enjoyed it thoroughly, which isn't at all to say it's what I
would normally call a good movie. The movie is highly campy,
reminiscent of '80s-'90s action movies / thrillers, and Dan Stevens
brings in an excellent all around tongue in cheek tough 80's anti-hero
performance. 

Stevens' acting is well matched by strong action that is to the point
and not drawn out, as well as superbly chosen music, particularly in
the climactic scenes. 

For any gamers out there, if you enjoyed Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon for
the nostalgia and humor, you'll likely love this movie as much as I
did.
<|_=00=_|>
So a guy who claims to know your dead son turns up at your house one
day. He seems nice and looks like that bloke off of Downton so you let
him stay for a while... That is pretty much all I knew about this film
before I went to see it. What follows is an enjoyable thriller with
laughs aplenty and an excellent central performance from Dan Stevens
(more on that later).

The plot, at the end of the day, is fairly nonsensical and there are
some troubling loose ends that I found a little unsatisfactory. I can't
say that any of the story is particularly surprising or original but
what does that matter when everyone making it and everyone in the
audience seems to be having so much fun? The cinema I was in was
probably around half full and while there was nobody in full-on
hysterical laughter, there was a satisfactory amount of appreciative
chuckling (me included).

I feel that the majority of my enjoyment of this film should really be
credited to Dan Stevens in the main role. His character is charming,
pleasant and helpful and yet strangely sinister and unsettling from the
outset and he plays it absolutely perfectly. You can't help but like
him even though you're not sure that you should. Apart from a smallish
role in "The Fifth Estate", I am only familiar with Stevens from
Downton Abbey and his role in this couldn't have been more different
from both of these. I look forward to seeing how his career progresses
but this was an excellent example of his versatility as an actor.

Overall a good Saturday night out at the cinema but I can't imagine it
is the kind of classic film I would watch again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
The acting is great, the soundtrack fantastic and the atmosphere the
movie creates sucks you in from the very beginning. The movie keeps you
guessing throughout at least for the first hour or so. You KNOW
something is off but you have no idea what exactly. When I watched it
my theory of what was going on changed every 10 minutes :D As the last
reviewer stated the first hour is definitely the best part.
Unfortunately towards the end the writers kind of dropped the ball. The
ending is somewhat unsatisfactorily predictable and the story can only
go the way it goes because of absolutely ridiculous mistakes made by
some of the characters. I don't know why most movies foam in the
endings but I guess in this case it is something that I'm very willing
to endure for the fun I had during the first 2/3 of the film.

The acting is awesome for the most part. Dan Stevens does a great job
keeping you on the edge the whole time which is utterly entertaining.
The writing and dialogue are great except as mentioned above for the
somewhat disappointing ending. But all in all this movie stuck with me
and though it has been a couple of days since I watched it I still
"feel" the atmosphere it created (to a great extend due to its
unconventional soundtrack, which I eventually bought although it is
generally not my kind of music at all). This is a very good movie and I
am a little surprised that I basically had to stumble over it by
accident and it hasn't gotten more publicity. If the ending had been a
little different it could have been fantastic, none the less this way
it is still great.
<|_=00=_|>
Creepy stranger premise has been used in horror or mystery to varied
effect, the latest Jennifer Lopez's flick is an example of how not to
welcome this premise. Luckily, The Guest has the luxury of having suave
lead actor and good atmosphere for a thriller. Some of the kinks are
predictable, but the dark humor as well as bizarre revelations offer
much needed novelty to the movie.

David (Dan Stevens) arrives at the Petersons resident, claiming that he
was a friend of their fallen son. He's well-mannered and seems
trustworthy, thus the family welcomes him openly. Upon his stay,
strange accidents begin to happen, and suspicion arises with the
casualties. The most important hook is Dan Stevens' portrayal of David.
He looks like a rugged debonair, this is not average smooth, this is
Ryan Gosling's level of smoothness.

Stevens delivers a wide variety of emotions, he can be either friendly
or deadly. Backed by good cast, such as Maika Monroe as the Anna
Peterson and Lance Reddick as Mayor Carver, the movie has a solid
degree on acting performance. The exchange of banter is enjoyable,
often resulting in manipulation or downright violence for David's
benefit. It elevates the human drama between him, the Peterson family
and whoever unlucky enough to be in their immediately vicinity.

Mystery of David's real identity is crafted slowly and it's compelling
enough to pique interest without revealing too much. The film also has
a touch of humor, albeit slightly crude. Strangely, in the third act it
changes tone drastically for the climax. This shift is a bit odd
considering it plays the thriller aspect with steady pace for the
majority of early parts, although this explosive tone does have the
merit of being entertaining.

There are short bursts of Hollywood style carnage, but they are modest,
not all out gunblazing from the start like Bourne or the recent John
Wick. Action sequences are well choreographed, it has both devastating
and ridiculous impact.. Good practical effect for the blood and
explosion as well as its highly unorthodox soundtracks make the faster
pace scenes more satisfying.

Having good mesh of action, mystery and comedy, The Guest is
enigmatically fascinating.
