
Moving and emotionally charged performances by both Stewart and Moaadi
from beginning to end. I was completely surprised by the subject matter
of Gitmo, expecting a political message as the underlying theme, but it
turned out to be a study of humanity and relationships within extreme
circumstances. Impressive directorial debut of Sattler. 

Stewart plays guard Amy Cole, a young marine from a small town who
joined the military to escape her life. The movie centers around the
conflict of her growing relationship with a prisoner, Moaadi, who has
been in Gitmo for eight years. Both actors do justice to the storyline
and these complex characters without building caricatures of military
and extremist personalities. I'm not one for heavy military story
lines, but I was pleasantly surprised by this film's twist to the Gitmo
plot with a narrow lens on the people, not the politics. It's not all
heavy subject matter....Moaadi adds some appreciated humor. Bottom
line: worth my time.
<|_=00=_|>
Camp X-Ray is one of those films that doesn't quite leave you after the
credits roll. It wasn't what I was expecting and I was surprised the
film didn't revolve around politics. The cinematography, the
soundtrack, including the constant hum in the background all formed a
very real atmosphere. Visually, Camp X-Ray is impressive, but the real
essence of the film does lie in the characters. The acting is some of
the best I've seen. 

80% of the film takes place on opposite sides of a cell door. We catch
a small glimpse through a small glass window, and yet this is enough to
feel the chemistry between Peyman Moaadi and Kristen Stewart. I can't
even begin to imagine the difficulty at capturing what they did through
a window, but it appears effortless. 

The characters are incredibly fleshed out and there are some small
hints of this, such as a glimpse of Cole wearing socks with sandals. A
personality statement in itself. It's all about the small things!

I do think a big part of why this film affected me so much is because
of my age. I saw parts of Cole in myself.

She wants to make a difference, she's seeking a way to push herself and
the army is a straight forward way of doing that. It pushes your
limits, it goes against what women should really do, and by doing that
you're trying to prove something within yourself. You're tougher and
braver than you appear. Yet put in this situation, things aren't so
straight forward or 'black and white' as she expresses. Life is so much
more complicated, relationships develop, experiences happen that throw
you off course.

Then there's the added uncertainty of everything, the frustration of
not knowing, wondering whether this is right? Whether this is what you
want to do? Whether it's okay to speak to this guy? Questioning what
you have always been taught is right and wrong.

I do feel that a lot of films tend to portray women as tough, fearless
and almost masculine, but underneath the tough front, I think we all
really are vulnerable. There's no escaping that. It's easy to act like
things are okay, to put on a tough front, to hide, but there's still
always going to be that vulnerability...maybe it goes as you get older,
I don't know.

In the end she discovers her way own way of making a difference, in a
way that at the beginning of the film would have been unimaginable, and
it just shows how much can change, how little we know, and how
important it is to keep an open mind.

Overall, I was surprised. It wasn't the film I expected, but much, much
more. You'll feel every emotion imaginable. It's the kind of film that
takes everything you know, or think you know, stirs it all up and
throws it back at you to figure out.

Everything about this film is commendable.
<|_=00=_|>
The directorial debut of Peter Sattler is infused with a strong moral
ambiguity that will make you question your own beliefs. Anchored by two
magnificent performances by Kristen Stewart and Peyman Moaadi, "Camp
X-Ray" is a flawed yet very affecting portrait of a relationship that
develops in the most unlikeliest of places. 

"Camp X-Ray" tells the story of a soldier named by Amy Cole, who is
assigned to watch detainees at Guantanamo Bay. Her whole outlook on the
military and life are changed when she befriends one of the detainees
named Ali Amir.

From an honest filmmaking standpoint, writer/director Sattler hits many
of his cinematic cues that you'd expect in a movie like this. It's full
of emotion, tension, and moral questions that keep you thinking.
However, the questions and emotional high-points are few and far
between. At times, the film can feel awfully bloated, with fluff, and
seemingly unimportant subplots that do nothing for the overall theme.
There was a unique opportunity to explore queries regarding war,
prison, and other things regarding politics that can be very
frustrating when watching, especially since it has 117 minute run time.
With all that said, when Sattler does it right, he nails it. I would be
remiss if I didn't say, I'm not looking forward to see what he has up
his sleeve next.

The cinematic world tends to forget that Kristen Stewart showed such
immense promise pre-"Twilight" days. A complete standout in Sean Penn's
"Into the Wild" in 2007, for which she was nominated alongside the cast
at the Screen Actors Guild Awards. Even in between the vampire
franchise, she subtly delivered in "Adventureland," "The Runaways," and
"On the Road." Stewart revives her glory days as Private Amy Cole, and
makes us believe in a brighter future for the tween icon. Sattler knows
her limitations, strengths, and puts them both to stunning use.
Emotionally charged, Stewart may have delivered her finest performance
yet, even one of the best by an actress this year.

As Asghar Farhadi enthusiasts will remember the talented Peyman Moaadi
from the Oscar-winning "A Separation," the rest of the world that
hasn't had the pleasure yet will start becoming well acquainted. Moaadi
ignites a fire throughout the film, balancing his inquisitive and
charismatic demeanor against a deep-rooted anger that will explode at
any moment. I implore all writer and directors to utilize him over the
next few years/decades.

Overall, "Camp X-Ray" has many things to offer an audience member. Some
of which will make you curious, some of which that will undoubtedly
disappoint you. Consequently, the film will get a dialogue going
between those who have seen the film. I'm excited to see how Sattler's
experience will be interpreted by the viewing public. At bare minimum,
you can relish in the bravura turns of Kristen Stewart and Peyman
Moaadi, two actors that are well worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
A Worth watching experience, after a long time came across a genuine
movie describing how life is there in world's most hatted prison, the
movie explains how abnormal life becomes and also uncovers the panic
situation when you live in a prison where rules are set by other's as
clearly and effectively said by Peyman Moadi "It is there life not
our's, You want us to follow your rules".

There is no violence in the movie yet it explains a lot about the life
in prison and how disturbing it is, and I believe this is the beauty of
this movie...well done to Producer and Directors.

Note: I do not support Al-Qaeda, ISIS or any other such organization
but I am aware of the fact that there are many people out there who are
imprisoned for life, yet they are innocent and world's so called peace
loving countries are not willing to free them in fact have ambitions to
pile up more and more such cases. Dr. Afia Siddique is one of such
example.
<|_=00=_|>
With all the detractors of Kristen Stewart re: the Twilight saga, it's
fair to say that they can now eat her shorts. Camp X ray highlights the
fact that sometimes, people are wrongfully imprisoned or detained, that
what may be deemed as a threat to national security by the policy
makers and the flow on effect of orders in that respect, can possibly
be askew.

Connecting with another person on any level, in any scenario, as a
result of any reason or no reason at all, is what life is about.
Although this film is the work of multiple talented entertainment
artists, and the story, they're interpretation of what life may be like
at Guantanamo Bay for it's detainees, there's a powerful message, a
range of kindness and emotion, uplifting and educating to the end.

Kristen Stewart, simply amazing...
<|_=00=_|>
This film affected me very deeply in a way I was not expecting.

Kristen Stewart and Peyman Moaadi deliver stunning performances which
take your breathe away. You really feel for this guy and Stewart has
never been more convincing. I thought it would be a stretch to imagine
her as a tough soldier and it is kind of surreal yet she manages to
create a credible person out of the role. Her emotional distress as the
contradictions of her job as camp guard begin to overwhelm her, is very
powerful and a pleasure to watch.

This film totally changed my mind about Gitmo. Just because it makes
you realize the awful possibility that totally innocent people may be
stuck there, and that unlike any other prison in the USA, there is no
way for them to appeal or for anybody to appeal on their behalf.

There must be some way to allow mistakes to be corrected. It's not
right.

It's amazing to me that I never saw it that way. I just assumed that
they were all hard core bad guys. But what if they aren't.

That would be a terrible fate, and this film really punches home how
terrible it would be.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Sattler's directorial debut, "Camp X-Ray," is a masterfully shot
film that inhabits two stellar performances by Kristen Stewart and
Payman Maadi. 

Stewart plays PFC Amy Cole from small town Florida who is socially
awkward and equally earnest. Meanwhile, Maadi's character of Ali Amir
is a charismatic detainee whom is engulfed in his impotent anger and
ceaseless boredom. 

The film itself is quietly drawn and slow paced to convey the monotony
of being a guard at Guantanamo Bay. "Camp X-Ray" is a two-hander for
the majority of the film and it rests entirely upon the interactions of
PFC Cole and Detainee 471 (Ali). Personally, I liked that the dynamic
between the two is purely platonic and develops from the honest human
requirement of connection. The tag line of the film "Connection takes
courage" is entirely apt.

The supporting cast of Lane Garrison and John Carroll Lynch as Cpl.
"Randy" Ransdell and Col. James Drummond do solid work in their roles
as Cole's superiors at Camp Delta.

Sattler kept a film about Gitmo as apolitical as probably possible, but
some will dislike the lack of a solid stance. The film does not offer
any answers to the quagmire of Guantanamo Bay, but rather raises
questions and displays the conflicting emotions one might feel while
serving or detained there.

Overall, I really liked this little Sundance indie. The attention to
detail is impressive and the performances are more than worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Sattler did good with "Camp X-Ray." Sattler utilized a bipartisan
script that is brought to life with two amazing performances from
Kristen Stewart and Payman Maadi.

Pfc. Amy Cole and Ali Amir are two completely different characters with
completely opposite backgrounds, yet they reach an understanding. Cole
develops a better understanding of the humanity behind the detainees
and Ali gains perspective of an MP guarding him. There are lingering
questions over Ali's innocence or guilt or whether he is manipulating a
vulnerable soldier.

The tenuous friendship is so intriguing because it should not exist and
it's not quite a friendship. "Camp X-Ray" is a slow-paced drama that
builds up to an incredibly tense third act. The acting is tremendous
and the attention to set design is impressive. I've seen documentaries
of life at Camp Delta and it looks very similar. 

Stewart and Maadi have a great on screen dynamic that the director
wisely captures with close ups. Lane Garrison as Cpl. Ransdell is solid
as the main antagonist of the film.

I recommend "Camp X-Ray" to anyone. It's a good film that doesn't
preach right or wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie itself was quite good and I think that it lives up to a 7.5
star rating. Now, as said before I enjoyed the film but do understand
that for many (Including myself) it can be seen as a little to
slow...Until arriving to the climax, which is absolutely great! The
thing is, that we need to understand what this movie is really trying
to portray. Its showing us the crude reality of how heartless and
dehumanizing humanity can be through the eyes of Cole (Kristen Stewart)
who starts to see how harsh things are and as said in the movie "it's
not all so black and white". Kristen Stewart's acting was good but
nothing out of the ordinary... I have to say that Maddi's performance
was very good and really interprets the character by truly reflecting
what Ali was feeling and displaying his desperation of having been in
Guantanamo Bay for 8 years. To sum it up, the movie is good and quite
the worthwhile. Be patient at the beginning cause it gets better and
better as it progresses.'
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Camp X-Ray" (2014) is nothing very superb or original, but it's a nice
drama. Set in kinda unique place, it lets the very simple story of a
friendship. Story about friendship would be simple, except that it
occurs between two people from different universes, but at the end they
get attached by a simple humanity. This a well acted, directed and
written drama, which won't going to win any Oscars, but it will do just
fine for one evening. 

Overall, "Camp X-Ray" is nicely done drama, set in a unique location
and features old as the movies itself plot about friendship between two
different people, who wins each others respect and friendship due to
common acts on decency.
