
I really wanted The Lazarus Effect to be good. It has a great cast and
an interesting premise, and I love horror movies so why should this be
any different? Well first of all calling it a horror movie is a bit of
a stretch. Yeah, there are "scares" but they're all the cliché
flickering lights, someone coming up behind someone else's back, fake
out, cheap ass easy jump scares that we've seen a million times and you
can see them coming from a mile away. 

The best thing this movie has going for it is its atmosphere. It all
takes place in an empty laboratory and there are some moments where you
feel the claustrophobia of being trapped in a place where dead bodies
are kept and weird surgical instruments all over the place. But none of
that psychological horror is expounded on. It's just like one second
I'm like, "hm, this could actually go somewhere" and then two seconds
later a freaky face pops on screen and it's like ugh, why bother.

The acting in this movie is fine for what it is. Aside from the two
leads, Evan Peters was the only character I cared about because he was
the comic relief but he just isn't given enough to work with.
Everything about the movie feels rushed. The characters aren't
developed enough. The movie is barely 80 minutes long and it still has
dull moments. It also borrows a lot of elements from other horror
movies. A good chunk of the movie is straight up "Event Horizon" in a
laboratory with some "The Shining" and "Lucy" sprinkled here and there.
Sure there is some creepy imagery but it's stuff we've seen a million
times. If they had actually built up tension instead of relying on
stupid jump scares then maybe the imagery would have some effect. As it
stands, it's just like... what a waste.

I can't give this movie a lower score because it did have potential and
I liked the cast. There are some moments that are admittedly cool,
however brief they are. Oh, and none of the movie makes sense. It
starts off plausibly with these doctors performing weird experiments
but as soon as sh*t starts to go down, any sense of realism goes out
the window. The Lazarus Effect isn't terrible - there's just no reason
to see it. Go see "Event Horizon" or "The Shining" if you're in the
mood for some real psychological scares.
<|_=00=_|>
Like I said in my Wild Card review, sometimes I don't get why movies
get such low ratings on here. I have seen plenty of movies that
deserves a 5 or lower, this is not one of them.

This movie is short and sweet. It is entertaining, never boring, cool
stuff happens, actors are good. I got certain Hollow Man vibes.. A team
is working on some amazing stuff, and the environments (labs and such)
are just nice and cozy.

I don't think The Lazarus Effect was meant to be a big, thought
provoking masterpiece, it was meant as a short and entertaining horror
flick. And it is exactly that. It's got a couple of actors we've seen
before, (including the very cute Olivia Wilde) which always helps in
this kind of horror quick fix. 

So, to sum up, don't expect very big things, expect a couple of jump
scares, a nicely paced plot, decent effects.. It's just easily seen.
(translated directly from Norwegian: 'lettsett')
<|_=00=_|>
Any five to ten minute excerpt from this movie could easily lead a
viewer to conclude that this is a well made horror or suspense
thriller. The production values are high, the performances good, and so
on.

The problem is that the parts of the film don't fit together. The
sequence of action has the usual slow build and accelerating pace of
any good thriller, but while the set-up is promising, and the events
proceed logically enough as interesting and sympathetic characters are
frightened, threatened or killed off, the reasons underlying the events
remain obscure.

Hints and suggestive exposition are introduced, and then forgotten.
There are explicit references to religious-themed horror fantasy,
speculative science, and even a few elements of a possible conspiracy.
An elaborate backstory is gradually revealed, and then abruptly
dismissed. The conclusion doesn't really conclude anything: there's a
decisive ending, but no resolution, no revelation, not even a clear
idea of the probable consequences.

It's possible a re-edit could address these issues and make it a decent
film. As it stands, though, it just doesn't work.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, you'll probably get more entertainment out of these user
reviews than you will by seeing the actual movie. To clarify...aren't
all possession movies inherently pro-Christian since the inclusion of
demons and hell implies that there is are angels and heaven (since
Lucifer was cast out of heaven and became the devil)?

As someone that has seen lot of REALLY bad horror films, I can safely
say that The Lazarus Effect isn't all that bad. It's got a pretty
decent cast in Mark Duplass and Olivia Wilde, but it's a cheap horror
film. You get the predictable jump-scares, you get the dialed in
dialogue, what else did you expect?

You don't go to see horror films because they're particularly well
written or original. This movie is literally just a hodgepodge of
movies like: Carrie, Lucy (the whole 10% of your brain thing), The
Phoenix Project, Pet Semetary, Flatliners, etc. 

I actually somewhat enjoyed this, but you realistically need to set
your expectations 6 feet under. Maybe this film will find a way to
resurrect some of your faith in the horror genre that way. It sure as
hell isn't going to resurrect the $10 bucks you spent on the ticket at
the theater. 

Additionally, what ever happened to the novelty of watching a film
before reviewing it? 

Read the full review and others like it on the Drive-in Zeppelin
website
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Frank Walton (Mark Duplass) and Dr. Zoe McConnell (Olivia Wilde)
have been researching a serum named "Lazarus" to help patients in coma
to stay alive during interventions for three years in the university
sponsored by the Werner-Goss Biotechnical. They bring the documentarian
Eva (Sarah Bolger) to make a film about their discoveries with their
team formed by Niko (Donald Glover) and Clay (Evan Peters) and their
experiment with a dead dog. However they discover that Lazarus is
capable to resurrect the animal that awakes with a different behavior.
They decide to keep their discovery in secret, but their project is
shut down by the President Dalley (Amy Aquino) claiming that he had an
experiment in direct violation of the Review Board. Further, their
research is completely stolen by the Crylonis Pharmaceutical that had
become shareholder in Werner-Goss. 

Frank convinces his team to return to the laboratory to duplicate their
experiment to prove that they own the patent of the serum, but there is
an accident and Zoe is electrocuted and dies. Frank decides to use the
Lazarus to resurrect her against the will of his friends but soon the
team learns that something is wrong with Zoe, who is Catholic and tells
that she is trapped in hell.

"The Lazarus Effect" is a horror movie with a good story that uses some
concepts from "Flatliners". The screenplay is too tight and the story
develops in a fast pace, with sufficient development of characters and
situation; maybe this is the main reason for the bad reviews. The
location is claustrophobic, but there are many unnecessary fire and
explosions. The cast has at least three great names - Olivia Wilde,
Sarah Bolger and Mark Duplass and never disappoints. In the end, "The
Lazarus Effect" could have been a little longer with better development
to be a great horror film. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Renascida do Inferno" ("Reborn from Hell")
<|_=00=_|>
Most Blumhosue produced films are utter trash(Jessabelle, The Purge,
etc.) and I'm a big horror fan so this movie caught my eye. And I
wasn't disappointed at all. Going in with an open mind, what I really
liked about the film was that it didn't move into demonic territory to
provide cheap scares. Sure, some pop up scares were cliché, but they
didn't have to use demons to make the film creepy. Olivia Wilde is
fantastic in her role, as is Evan Peters. The film also has a solid
story, and borrows elements from Pet Semetary, The Shining, and
Lucy(yes it makes sense). Without losing the plot in itself like
recents like Project Almanac, it sticks to a meaningful script, and
provides fun, campy scares. It wasn't golden, nor is it a new classic,
but it's a brisk fun way to lose yourself in the macabre. It's also one
of the better recent horror films. Defiantly recommend this, and I hope
my review has helped!
<|_=00=_|>
The Lazarus Effect is another example of a major Hollywood produced
horror movie that is giving the horror genre a bad name. Everything
that happens here is pretty much straightforward and therefore, boring.
There were no surprises in the film or twists that take the story in an
unexpected direction and gave the film some life. 

Lazarus is just like I said above, it's a mix of Event Horizon + Lucy +
Carrie, interpret that as you wish. The problem just like with Lucy is
that the villain gets too powerful and there is basically no chance of
survival, a lopsided battle. Where as with Carrie, we are given a
reason for her breakdown and vengeance, in Lazarus we are given
absolutely nothing, no motive, no nothing. 

And of course, to no surprise the movie features plenty of flashing
lights where characters appear and disappear into the darkness. It's
cheap gimmicks like this that are used to create scares that ruins
movies, versus actually building up tension and a thick atmosphere. The
Lazarus Effect features nothing to boast about, not even it's cast
since they are completely under utilized, everything here is dull. 

But again, this was a Hollywood produced horror film so it's not
surprise the movie is being torn apart by critics. Instead, skip this
and watch the superior 'Flatliners', at least they provide some added
depth and an eerie atmosphere!
<|_=00=_|>
A group of medical students discover a way to bring dead patients back
to life. 

The Lazarus Effect stars Olivia Wilde, Mark Duplass, Evan Peters, Sarah
Polger and is directed by David Gelb. This is another horror movie and
we've seen those couple of jump scares before; but it does have some
very creepy imagery and when this start happening it's not that bad.
The film deals with a theory debating whether when you die some
chemical elements in your brain make you see the white light at the end
of the tunnel or you actually go to heaven and this stage is just some
kind of process to enter it. In fact, it has you wondering is she
possessed or is she just unlocking her brain and that's what triggers
this weird version of herself? However, it's not giving you enough
information to let you decide what's actually going on. Ultimately The
Lazarus Effect feels like a horror version of Lucy but messier this
time with some horror things happening in order to to keep the audience
entertained for what it is. Sometimes it tries to be smart but gives
you conflicting information and then you're lost, it doesn't quiet know
where to go. Finally, actors are functional, especially Evan Peters who
has some pretty good lines and clearly is the comic relief in the
movie. 

Overall The Lazarus Effect is more or less what you expect it to be, an
horror movie with some jump scares as usual but with some pretty cool
and relevant imagery. It's an effective but very messy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Quality of production was good, acting was good, what was included in
the storyline was good, I enjoyed it overall, but I thought that more
could have been added to make this film stellar. There was too much
that was unexplained. Plus this being a fairly short film, they could
have added more scenes, especially leading up the the spooky stuff. I
felt that the progression of events was rushed overall. Also the
character development was a bit rushed. I could have understood the
rushed character development more, if there were more detail provided
about the ideas. I was really looking forward to this film, and I wish
that it lived up to the hype. I did see the similarities in plot
description as "flatliners" but this movie was presented in a totally
different way. I really like the ideas used in this movie, I hope they
make a second and more complete version.
