
Took my 5 year old to see this fully knowing the franchise is worn out
after having seen the disappointing Cars 2 and the first Planes. The
plot is more interesting here as it plays out like an 80 minute episode
of Rescue Heroes. 

The animation is fantastic as you would expect. Having animated planes
allows for more panoramic views of the woodlands and fires.

Sounds like kids were bored during the sad parts. The story didn't
really need this as it's all predictable. You knew Rusty would defeat
the odds to save the day in the end. Dane Cook voiced Rusty similar to
Owen Wilson's Lightning McQueen, very down to earth without being over
the top. 

There is certainly nothing groundbreaking here but the action scenes
were good enough for my son to say he liked it (which is all that
really counts!).
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly to my knowledge, Planes: Fire and Rescue is not a cash in
on the Cars Series. Unlike most sequels, The film was made to show the
day in a life scenarios of firefighters fighting fire season where here
in British Columbia where I live, the fires threaten many people. This
is one of the best things about the film, Disney Toons, who is the
studio behind the first Planes movie shows they're capable of living up
to the standards of their Farther and Mother animated studios which
shocked me. 

At 84 minutes long, the movie opens up with a message dedicating this
movie to all the firefighters who risked their lives. So now on to the
film, Dusty Crophopper has won many trophies. But on the eve of a
festival in Propwash Junction, his gearbox is damaged and his friends
tell him he may never fly again. After an accident, the main town
firefighter Mayday is in danger of losing his job and Dusty tries to
get himself Certified as a Firefighter to get his job back. But is in
danger of a greedy lodge owner trying to ruin everything and his life. 

The most memorable characters I found in the movie was Dipper. The main
girl plane of the movie. Like Ashanti from the last film, she is a new
'Friend' of his. I put it like that because she is actually a very
creepy stalker. I felt uncomfortable around her because I was worried
this relationship might lead to something creepier. Also, Blade Ranger
played by Ed Harris is memorable mainly because this lead firefighting
plane was in a show called 'Chops' which is the Cars Universe
equivalent of Cops and Magnum PI. 

Animation wise, it got better. The animation is lively and thanks to
the sound effects it makes the animation more convincing when Dusty and
the gang are out battling fires. 

The story I liked. Because it has some flare to it. It gets sad within
minutes, it gets evener sadder without an hours running time and is
more serious than the first. More maturity to it, more life to the
world, more character development, it is bigger and better. Some of the
stuff is funny too. In one scene, Dusty is shown a VHS tape with the
Cover of Howard the Truck, then to see its not that, but 'Chops' as I
said before. I was laughing so hard when they showed that.

Overall, Planes: Fire And Rescue proves that you can do more with a
sequel than just cash in on it, you can tell a engaging story that will
tell you about life. It really was a better sequel and should be shared
with the whole family.

78/100 B

P.S: THE MUSIC STILL ROCKS! THANKS MARK MANCINA!
<|_=00=_|>
Planes: Fire and Rescue is about second chances. Dusty is a hot shot
plane until one day he is at a crossroads in life, so he decides to
join the world of fire rescue. Filled with a cast of fun characters
this movie touts on bravery and the forgotten machines that protect us
during unexpected natural disasters. In this case it is fire. There is
a little bit for everyone, excitement, romance, and team work. This
movie is cute and has a fun story line. The animated characters give a
reality to the behind the scenes of fire fighting. It also gives you a
boast on the optimism of new opportunities. No matter what happens you
are able to reinvent yourself and be a part of the team. Colorful and
enigmatic Planes: Fire & Rescue make you ready to take on a life of
adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, maybe wasn't the year movie but it's quite decent, it's much, too
much better than cars 2 and for one instant i thought that it was a
Pixar movie, okay, okay, maybe doesn't reach the quality from Pixar but
Disney is improving in the stories and it left a very good taste. The
scenes and animations are excellent and the story isn't only for kids,
on the contrary it's quite decent for the adults, the characters feel
like a real persons and its much better than the first movie. The only
bad thing that i see is that Disney could improve the background of the
leader copter or even change it, because Disney follow the same way
since the cars story, one ace that teaches or trains for a bad past
happening, maybe this doesn't bad but could be better. In summary it's
an excellent movie from Disney and without songs, yeah!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen Planes as of writing this review. I understand it might
be foolish of me to skip the first movie because the plot is just so
complex (he he), but I happened to cross paths with it and watched it.
I was expecting a terrible Cars ripoff like many reviews described the
first movie and while I got a mediocre animated movie, I did get some
genuine entertainment in it.

Good: I have to start by saying Dane Cook was not annoying here. He
wasn't shouting and being smug, but his voice-over work actually
brought some credibility to the story and made his character likable.
The other characters that make up the firefighters were fun in parts. I
was caught off guard how the fire sequences were handled well and
brought some excitement to the movie with some scenes looking like
something out of a disaster movie.

Bad: I can't shake off how it resembles Cars that it hurts the movie a
lot. I know it takes place in the same universe, but it really is very
similar. The jokes almost never work as they consist of just car puns
that fall flat. The beginning of the movie just drags with these jokes.

Overall, it lacks anything resembling originality and the humor never
works for most of it, but there is some excitement to be had here in
the second half.
<|_=00=_|>
The first "Planes" was a pleasant surprise. It may have had practically
the same "race-against-all-odds" story as "Cars", "Turbo" and many
other animated films. But "Planes" still managed to be distinct and
charming on its own, for both kids and adults.

We get a lot of this homespun country charm again in this second
installment called "Planes: Fire and Rescue." Our hero cropduster Dusty
is having problems with his gear box and cannot push his engine to
racing anymore. A fire at his hangar revealed the inadequacy of the
fire-fighting capabilities of his area, so Dusty decided to try and
have himself accredited as a Fire-Fighter. 

For adults, this may be an average affair for the most part. Even my
tween kids did not too interested about watching it. Personally, my
favorite part was when it was revealed that Dusty's stern mentor Blade
Ranger (authoritatively voiced by Ed Harris) was once an actor in a TV
cop-show called "CHoPs", which had the very familiar theme song of 70's
motorcycle cop show "CHiPs"! The nostalgia brought a smile to my face.

The story is pretty slim, standard and predictable, so this episode
spent a lot of time showing grand forest vistas, amazingly realistic
and scary fire scenes and more amazing aerial feats by Dusty and the
other fire-fighting aircraft. Despite the fact that this is a film for
kids, I give it props for tackling a form of heroism not usually shown
on the big screen -- fire and rescue teams.
<|_=00=_|>
Dusty Crophopper is now a successful famous air racer. He returns to
Propwash Junction to promote the upcoming Corn Festival. His gearbox
malfunctions and there are no replacements. His racing career is over.
He recklessly pushes to the limits and crash lands at the airport. Old
fire truck Mayday barely is able to put out the resulting fire.
Government inspectors put the airport on notice. They need another
firefighting vehicle. Dusty decides to get certified as a firefighter.

I like the start of this movie a lot. I like Dusty's problem. I really
like Mayday. I don't really like the move away from Propwash Junction.
First it feels unlikely and unwarranted. Also it's just better to stay
with some of the characters especially Mayday. The fire and
firefighters could easily come to Propwash Junction. The stakes would
be elevated if his hometown is threatened with destruction. The fire
fighting scenes are quite exciting and a vast improvement over the
first movie. This is generally a better movie than the first. It's rare
but I think this movie is too short. There is a straight to video
quality to this that better writing could solve.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not understand why everyone is so down on this movie. The story is
original - talking planes fighting forest fires - can't recall that
being done before. The animation is top notch. The characters are
funny. The movie went really quick....which is a good thing in my mind.
There were NO political messages as was the case with the Cars movies.
They could have easily spun a global warming message with the fire
fighting but didn't go there. 

Be sure to sit through the credits to find what happens to the park
administrator. This movie is much better than Planes and almost on par
with Cars II.
<|_=00=_|>
What a funny and entertaining film! I did not know what to expect, this 
is the fourth film in this vehicle's universe with the two Cars movies 
and then the first Planes movie. I was wondering if maybe Disney pushed 
it a little bit. However, Planes: Fire and Rescue is an entertaining 
film that is a fantastic sequel in this magical franchise. 

The story isn't about just one topic. This is a little bit of humorous 
romance and also a lot of action. They make some pretty funny jokes 
while adding a little sprinkle of drama and a great message for the 
kids as well.

The story starts when Dusty sadly learns that a key component in him is 
broken and he thinks he will never race again. When a fire breaks out 
in his airport, they realize the town needs a second firefighter. Dusty 
steps up to the plate and goes into training. If you want to find out 
what happens and if he becomes a firefighter, you have got to watch the 
film. 

What a great add-on to the series; the jokes are perfect. Julie Bowen 
(Lil' Dipper) is funny through the end. Also, there are a lot of great 
messages and a lot of references to things in real life. However, this 
film is very predictable. Ten minutes in, I knew the ending, so it 
probably would be more captivating for a younger audience. Also, 
Planes: Fire and Rescue is very similar to the last three films. There 
is a challenge, a serious character and some comedy. Other than that, 
the voices are well done and they even changed a Native American folk 
tale into the version of vehicles just for this film! Very clever!

My favorite scene is when Dusty first arrives at the firefighting 
station for his training. He is introduced to some Smoke Jumpers, cars 
that parachute into the fire to tackle fallen trees and save wildlife. 
One nearly takes off his head and the other two introduce themselves. 
Once they all get acquainted, the first fire breaks out and cars and 
planes all get into action in a well-choreographed manner! 

This is a kid's film and nothing really is here that parents should be 
worried about. I recommend it for ages 3 to18. Even kids that don't 
understand it will enjoy the bright colors. I give this film 4 out of 5 
stars for great jokes and a fantastic story line, even though a bit 
predictable.

Reviewed by Gerry O, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. 
<|_=00=_|>
I had great expectations for both "Planes" and "Planes: Fire and
rescue". Both were letdowns! Neither film had the humor, heart and
charisma that have characterized previous Pixar films. Ever since
Disney bought out Pixar I have noticed a distinct decline in the
quality of films made under the Disney Animation Studios logo. Disney
has, in my opinion, ignored great Pixar directors like Andrew Stanton,
Pete Doctor, and Lee Unkrich. These directors have made the best
animated films on the planet and Disney doesn't use them! I have also
noticed much of the production work is done in India with Indian
animators and production staff. Is there a reason for this? I am not
saying they are worse or better than animators in America. They are
good. Disney needs to bring back Andrew Stanton, Pete Doctor and Lee
Unkrich.
