
The clue was in the title all along and I just failed to see it.

It's like the studio and creative minds behind this disaster were so
stoked with the idea of having Superman and Batman fight each other,
they couldn't have a coherent thought after to come up with any form of
a story. So they let Zack Snyder make a movie to satisfy the 10 year
old in him. 

Major spoilers ahead!

I thought there were 3 very strong, compelling ideas from the trailers,
but the movie failed to delivery on them

1. Batman's aggression towards Superman. 3/4th of this movie is
dedicated to this. In fact Batman wants to KILL Superman. And finally,
when the moment arrives, Batman stops because his mother's first name
is the same as Superman's mother's. And so they become the best of
friends. Just like that.

2. People of earth's distrust of Superman, due to the events from the
first movie. This too runs through most of the movie, with Superman
trying to earn some brownie points by saving a few people. The fact
that there is a public hearing against him, indicates that people are
not buying it. But in the end, after his supposed death, why does he a
get a military/hero style funeral? Why is the country mourning? Did I
miss something? Especially since there is confusion on what happened
during the hearing.

3. The public hearing: This should have been a really powerful scene.
If Superman were to concede, then he'd be answerable to the people and
he would not get to be the hero we know he is. The same, if he did not
concede. I was giddy with anticipation when this scene started and was
immensely disappointed when the Senator starts mumbling. Zack Snyder
took the path of least resistance.

- - - - - -

I guess after the writer's gave up on the main ideas, they didn't care
about smaller plot points

- Superman has no remorse for the destruction he caused in the first
movie. In the big fight he smashes Batman through a building causing
the building to collapse. Ditto for Doomsday, smashes him in to a power
plant of some sort. He is not even thinking about anyone's safety.

- Just like in the first movie, there is an apocalypse level
destruction. Superman himself contributes to some of it. Thousands are
probably killed, but superman only saves Lois Lane

- Superman threatens Batman that he can easily kill Batman, twice.
Sounds like a bully to me

- Batman STEALING from Lex Luthor so HE gets to exact revenge on
Superman

- Batman uses guns, not to intimidate, but actually kill. He even
dreams of gun battles.

- The govt. has Zod's body and the ship for 2 years. Luthor comes up
with the idea that since the ship has a bio-metric security, he can use
Zod's body to gain access. It did not cross anyone else's mind

- One alien craft/tech is lying in the Indian Ocean for 2 years. No
nation/military has claimed it. Local fishermen are freely swimming to
it and breaking away pieces

- The all powerful Kryptonian key has no security what so ever. Anyone
can use it. Even Lex Luthor. It only unlocks EVERYTHING, why should it
be secure?

- Kryptonians have banned the technology to create Doomsday. It's so
dangerous, they decide not to remove it from the system but keep it,
with so minimum security that it can be enabled with a simple voice
command by a non-Kryptonian.

- There is no compelling reason behind Lex Luthor's hatred towards
Superman. How does he stand to gain or lose?

- There is no villain, purpose, motive or problem to solve in the
story. Doomsday appears so that Zack Snyder can once again have a
city-leveling battle.

- Why is Doomsday angry with Superman? Since he is made from Zod &
Luthor's genes, does anger/hatred towards someone pass through genes?

- When Batman steals the Kryptonite, it would have spoiled whatever
Luthor had planned, but Luthor just eggs Superman to fight Batman like
they were in cahoots. How does Luthor know what Batman has planned? How
does he know about the battle royale. Has he read the comic?

- Why is Batman not suspicious of the other meta beings? Why does he
think they are friendly and will help? And against what? Why does he
think he will need their help? How come Luthor is in on this?

- Why does Luthor have well designed logos for each meta human? 

- Why was wonder woman so concerned with being exposed? According to
the photo, she had already revealed herself, in FULL COSTUME. So why
the secrecy? And why come out of hiding when she sees lightening coming
from the dome? She did not feel the need when world was practically
getting destroyed in the first movie.

- Why does Luthor introduce Bruce Wayne and Clark Kent to each other?
BW is a billionaire, but CK? Why would anyone care about him?

- Superman stops the car chase. Literally allowing the bad guys to
escape. He may not like Batman's methods, but he couldn't figure out if
Batman's giving a chase, he's after bad guys?!

- In the midst of deafening destruction Superman can hear Lois Lane.
But his mother...his hearing, speed, x-ray vision...he doesn't even
give it a shot. And of course Batman finds her in a jiffy because he
is...

... the list goes on...but IMDb has a word limit...

I can't believe such a high profile movie had no thought put behind it.
Amateur hour. A total disservice to a 75 year legacy and to the fans. I
hope the remaining DC movies are scrapped or they finally pulls their
socks up.
<|_=00=_|>
Sadly, a step down from Man of Steel. First of all, I was a bit
skeptical about this movie, and thought the runtime (about 2 and a half
hours) was way too long (and I wasn't completely wrong though). The
action scenes were better than what we saw in the trailer. Although the
doomsday scenes had terrible CGI (you'll know it when you'll see it),
but overall I was happy. The movie had a lot crazy-packed action (it
was directed by Zack Snyder, what do ya expect?) but the plot didn't
know where it was going. A lot of scenes were a treat for me to see and
I got goosebumps watching them. There was more to Jesse Eisenberg than
what I saw (and hated, like most people) in the trailer. I made a bet
to my friend that he'll suck in the movie, guess I'll have to pay up.
He really WAS good. But just like any other movie, it's not perfect and
has flaws. You can see that Zack tried hard very hard to fit everything
nicely into the movie, but over stuffing was bound to happen. Other
than that, I think there are some fan-boys who'll be satisfied no
matter how bad the movie is. Hope my review didn't give away any
spoilers in any way whatsoever, and that you end up enjoying the movie
as much as (or more than) I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, the wait is finally over. Batman and Superman are in a big screen
film together for the first time in history. The result? A sloppy
attempt at setting up the DC Universe. Batman v Superman has its
moments though with great performances from almost every one and action
that could rival Man of Steel, but it was difficult to not walk out of
this film and feel overwhelmingly disappointed. For a film that
finished filming over a year ago, you would think Zack Snyder and
Warner Bros would make all the effort in the world to edit in and out
the stuff that's important and tighten the movie, but that isn't the
case. 

It's directed by the aforementioned Snyder and stars almost the entire
Man of Steel cast along with Ben Affleck and Jeremy Irons as Batman and
Alfred respectively. The performances are mostly great all around,
including Amy Adams, who unfortunately felt out of place for most of
the film. I have no problem with Adams' portrayal or the character of
Lois Lane being in the film, but she was misused and overused here. She
and General Swanwick from the first film have several small scenes that
are used for us to find out more about Lex Luthor. But the problem is,
it's a good 15 minutes of the film that could have shaved down to 3 or
4 minutes worth of scenes.

Speaking of Lex Luthor, the casting of Jesse Eisenberg caused a big
stew of controversy when it was first announced, and I think it was
warranted. I've seen the film twice now and had different opinions both
times. The first time I was entertained by Lex but also confused as to
why they went the route they did with the character. The second time, I
was annoyed by the performance and the over the top portrayal of what
should be a menacing villain. A few scenes here and there had those
classic Luthor aspects that I've loved from the animated series and
films, but the tone they went with for Eisenberg's performance just
doesn't work. There's little humor in an incredibly dark film, and Lex
seems like he's from a completely different film. 

The other big problem the film unfortunately has is its title and
marketing. Most of the marketing material was well done and proposed
"the greatest gladiator match in the history of man", but the reality
is that it's merely 10 minutes of a 2 and a half hour film. The fight
itself is phenomenal. It doesn't hold a candle to the fight in the
comic book/film "The Dark Knight Returns", but it's probably the best
part of Batman v Superman. The focus was all over the place though.
Everything from the fight onto the ending is good cinema, but man does
it take a long time to get there. I actually sat in the theater saying
to myself "I'm kind of bored right now". How in the world does that
happen in a superhero film, let alone a Batman film?

There are still plenty of great aspects to this film, however. Diane
Lane has a few heart-warming and gut-wrenching scenes. Laurence
Fishburne provides some good comic relief as the head of the Daily
Planet, Perry White. Jeremy Irons gives us our most involved and bada**
Alfred to date. Even Gal Gadot, another questionable casting choice,
showed acting chops that I didn't think she had here and got me excited
for the Wonder Woman film next year. Which brings me to the weirdest
part about my feelings about this film. As many problems as there are,
it didn't get me any less enthused for the future of the DCEU. Some few
surprises in the film, tease Justice League which was neat. And I'm
incredibly stoked for Ben Affleck's solo Batman film. With that said, I
don't think I can get that excited for Justice League if Snyder still
directs. I have to believe many of the directing and editing mistakes
came from him. But perhaps even Warner Bros themselves needs to take
some of the fault for giving Snyder too much reign? Another positive
though was Hans Zimmer's score, unsurprisingly. I loved the way him and
Junkie XL managed to weave in Superman's theme with the new haunting
Batman theme.

Ben Affleck may very well be the definitive Batman. Everyone knew his
Bruce Wayne would be great but his Batman does not disappoint. There
are scenes which rival the action in the Arkham video games in terms of
style, creativity, and fluidity. I couldn't be more excited for Affleck
to write, direct, and star in the solo film whenever it may come out.

I honestly can't believe I'm sitting here typing an average review for
a film that's one of my most anticipated of all time, but I am. There
are plenty moments of pure greatness here, but for every incredible
scene, there's an unnecessary or strange scene out of place. Sure, I
enjoyed the film more the second time I saw it, but I just can't
believe how sloppy of a filmmaking job this was. A missed opportunity
for Warner Bros for sure.

+Affleck

+Action

+Last 40 minutes are awesome

+Zimmer's score

+Performances

-Except for the tonally off performance by Eisenberg

-Sloppy editing

-Slow and almost boring first half

7.2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am drawn back to when this movie was first announced and how I
despised the notion of a Batman V Superman film a la Freddy vs Jason,
Alien vs Predator and so on. It all seemed like a huge gimmick to me
and I expected the worst for this movie. Fast forward a couple years, I
am sitting down at a private screening, the lights go down and the
movies opens up. The opening sequence was not what I expected but shows
Snyder's visual creativity in a similar manner as he did with the
opening sequence of Watchmen. 

We are hearkened to the Black Zero Event, only we see it from Bruce
Wayne's perspective as shown in some of the trailers. I love that
Snyder uses Bruce's as the eyes of the audience to get an outside
perspective of the surrounding madness and destruction, and he does it
very effectively. You are mad at these beings, you feel the terror, the
confusion the anger for them bringing there war here, it plays out with
spectacle and sadness. 

I had reported a rumor about Scoot Macnairy's characters months back
and was called out by Ocelot and others several times on things I
reported, well turns out it was true. Something tragic happens at the
hearing and it is our insight of how cunning and vicious this Lex
Luthor is. 

The overall story is well woven and much better than MOS, you can
definitely breathe a sigh of relief in that Terrio does a great job of
crafting this all together. The movie is a visual tour de force as we
have come to expect with Snyder but let me just say that his directing
has also improved. For those who moaned about the shaky cam and muted
colors, they will be pleased. Performance wise. EVERYONE does an
outstanding job, the standouts to me were Affleck, Eissenberg and
Gadot. I was not on the Ben, Gal, Jesse hate wagon, though I found
Eissenberg's casting questionable but I felt he had shown that he has
some capable range of pulling it off. Affleck is Bruce Wayne, Affleck
is Batman, talk about casting redemption. Similar to Reynolds,
GL>Deadpool. Affleck should no longer be bogged with complaints about
Daredevil. 

For those that hated on Gadot, suck it, she owns the role in every way
possible, she really has stepped up her acting game as well. The woman
has presence as Diana, grace and beauty and as Wonder Woman, she is
truly a Goddess. People were moaning about Gail's size, forget that
nonsense, she proves she does not need bulking muscles to be a warrior
and her fight scenes are exceptional, makes Faora look like she was
waltzing. Eissenberg, well well well. Let me first say I thought the
best versions of Luthor were from the Lois and Clark and Smalville TV
shows but Jesse brings something totally new to the game. 

Jesse plays his Luthor like a true devil. He is deceiving,
manipulative, conniving, that line the Devil will do it, he is
referring to himself to me. I could not help but see him like a Lucifer
in his role and wondered if Jesse kind of based playing his character
that way. Everyone else support wise was absolutely great. I do not
want to write a long report of praises so let me see if I can cap off
before getting on my flight. The fight set up was a little weak but boy
the pay off was spectacular. Cavill I feel needs to step up a little
more, granted he was wonderful but he was out shined. He needs to get
beyond that distraught expression that he likes to use because he does
it to death in this and I found that annoying. 

The other member intro's were great and will have you all pumped for
the JLA, the Knightmare scene was horrific and impactful and made me
smile like a little geek. The final fight was amazing. Never in a CBM
have we seen anything like it, yes I said it NEVER and lastly, I will
say the movie does end on a heart wrenching note but a wink in the end.
I loved it gave it a 9 and looking forward to seeing it again next
week. If you guys have any questions ask I am going to be on a plane
for the next 6-7 hours so will try to respond. I may have exaggerated
about it being 10X better than MOS but I will say 5X better.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest! We were all, even marvel fan boys, waiting for this
movie. The two most well known superheroes fighting... what could go
wrong!? A lot. 

The positives:

1. Batman & Alfred; Batfleck was amazing! Ben Affleck represented a
batman that is damaged, changed his moral code(which if they play their
cards right could be a center piece of solo batman films) and made him
more bad-ass because of it. 

2. The action: Amazing Action! It's thrilling, exciting and beautifully
shot. That is what Zack does though and I expected nothing less. 

3. Wonder woman: Supringsly well done. Her as Diana prince was maybe a
bit stiff sometimes but she can make the character her own along the
way. I trust her that much. Her as wonder woman was amazing!! I got
chills when she joined the fight!

4. Cinematography is general. It is a beautiful film to look at. Nicely
shot and as I said the action is amazing. The CGI in certain places are
a bit "meh" and one shot did take me out of the movie, but that's it. 

Now the bad stuff why this movie went downhill:

1. the editing/pacing: Guys, this movie was a mess. The movie begins
great with an introduction of batman and some stuff you saw in the
trailer. Then we go to a scene... which tells us a story then it goes
to another scene. You're invested in that particular and then it jump
cuts to another scene. You are seeing 4 different story lines play out
in 5 minute scenes after each other. As a general movie goer-ER you
will lose track. As a DC-fan, as myself, I could understand everything
but i needed to bring all my previous knowledge to actually understand.
Really bad pacing

2. Superman: Not everyone will agree on this, but I think they handled
superman horribly. He needs to be symbol of hope and yet he is never
exactly that. There was certain montage, where it should shown that he
was, but i never felt that he was. This representation was too dark.
This was also more of a batman movie with superman playing a small part
in that, yet batman's world is too dark for superman. If you want to
combine their worlds, let Batman play a role in superman's world. 

3. Lex Luther. I hated his representation of the power hungry and
menacing villain. He played mark suckable and was a complete miscast. I
don't care if he was the son of the "real" lex Luther. It didn't fit. 

4. Doomsday: A complete waste of a great story arc. Why did they bring
him in while there was so much going on.. 

5. The justice league set up: It felt rushed. The way they shoehorned
all the other characters in was lazy writing. 

6. the whole motivation of superman fighting batman. batman's
motivation was clear and great. Superman's was horrible. They were one
conversation away from understanding each other, but they had to fight
of course.

7. Many many plot holes, but i cant go into those because i don't wanna
spoil the whole movie. 

verdict: If you love flashy action.. go watch it in Max. If you like
great story.. wait till it releases on blue-ray.

6 out of 10 for a mediocre movie that should been an epic man. I was so
disappointed. I see so many DC fans raging this movie was epic, but
we're dealing with the phantom menace effect.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tries so hard... and falls flat on almost every level. It is
further proof that DC may be a master of the animated movie and they
may be brilliant in the way they approach many of the TV properties but
when it comes to movies they still can't pull it together. This is a
long movie that feels even longer. Ben Affleck does a GREAT job as
Batman, that doesn't mean I LOVED this Batman (I did not) but he does a
great job and any problems there are with the character fall on the
writer, producers and director. The problem with this Batman is no that
he is brutish and violent and angry.. it's that he's not smart. He's
not strategic and intellectual , brilliant and a world class detective.
He is consumed by anger, hatred, vengeance and brutality (and not in a
good way). He is blind in his rage and directs it towards Superman.

The ending, which should be amazing and outstanding fell flat in both
viewings I went to. One a sneak peek and one to which I had purchased
tickets on opening night and went to see with friends. The ending
should be exciting and fun and amazing.. and it just... wasn't. It
completely fails on every single level.

You should leave the theater with your mouth wide open from awe unable
to withstand the anticipation of the next chapter... most people who
were leaving the theater were tired, worn down and felt like they had
gone a few rounds with Superman. The movie is tedious and boring with
characters that I just did not care about at all. Oh no Louis is in
trouble... oh look Batman is Angry, oh look Superman is Angry, oh my
Martha is Angry. The problem with a bunch of characters who are
essentially the same in attitude is that you just don't care.

The preview of the justice league, which people know is coming was
forced as is but would have made a magnificent after credit sequence.
It would have at least of given people something to talk about on the
way out rather then just shaking their heads in disappointment or
yawning.

I liked Man of Steel, I didn't love it but I liked it. This was no
where near as good. While I have been a long , long time DC fan and
unlike many fan boys have little problem with taking some creative
liberties with characters (there are things that work well in years of
comics that don't translate on screen), there are things that should
evolve but not completely change. Doomsday was sadly, a disaster. In
the comic he is a Goliath , matching Superman's physical might and
that's pretty much it. His punches are so powerful they shatter
buildings (which Snyder seems to really, really, really like to do)..
there was no need to alter him to the point they did.

This movie would have been better served had Lex made a clone from
Zod's body of Bizarro (makes more sense) and had it been only Batman
and Superman, getting to know one another, learning about each other,
discovering their differences and ultimately their similarities as they
came together in the end to defeat a Superman level menace. After the
credits , an email to Wonder Woman with Batman letting her know that he
has discovered who she is. 

You could even have had wonder woman in it, she was a delightful
character (in this film) and I enjoyed her scenes (she gets little
screen time but I felt was one of the best characters). As it is it
just falls flat.

I enjoyed one of the sequences with who I believe was the Flash
(doesn't say) but I do wish it was Grant (CW) as he is the true flash.
This movies wrongs can still be righted in the next one and I will
likely see it when it arrives but I am not looking forward to it and
have no real anticipation of it's arrival. If I got word it was
canceled I would shrug my shoulders and hope they got it right next
time around.
<|_=00=_|>
Affleck as Bruce Wayne/Batman was pure awesome and dark. You can see
he's traumatized by the events in the past, and he has some fantastic
lines in general (Yes we see the whole parents thing again). Nobody
should really be surprised that he was good with the role considering
he's a solid actor, but I thought he was great. Versus Bale? That's a
interesting question, because Affleck definitely regards Batman as a
permanent part of his persona, while in Nolan series he eventually
doesn't want Batman. In combat he's pretty much everything everyone
would hope for from a film with Batman. One comment on the latest BvS
trailer said he fought like the Arkham video games from a scene they
showed. That's a good comparison. He's incredible in fights. Also the
way Snyder records him in action, you can actually see him fighting
unlike the Nolan films, which I'd imagine would make many people happy.
He also gets a chance to use his detective skills, do not worry. Also
his relationship with Irons, who plays Alfred, is just wonderful in
general. Irons was exceptional in the role (Its Jeremy Irons for
Christ's sake, of course he nailed the role) gets some witty lines and
also gets pretty emotional later on. He didn't get a lot of screen
time, just enough to be effective. Always passing advice to Batman.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very frustrating movie. I had been looking forward to it,
although was initially skeptical after hearing of Ben Affleck as
Batman. Seeing the critics views at RottenTomatoes was very
discouraging, but for some reason, IMDb showed favorable reviews by
audiences. This gave me some hope.

That hope was in vain. This movie was all over the place. I'm quite
familiar with the DC Universe, having been an on/off comics collector
since the 70's. Even so, I found myself unable to keep up with the
visions, dream sequences, time-travel visits(?), and just overall plot
convolutions in this movie. Some IMDb reviewers have already done an
excellent job highlighting the film's foibles, and I doubt I could do
better. However, I gotta say something.

The casting of Jessie Eisenberg as Lex Luthor was horrible, to the
extent that Affleck as Batman warmed my heart in comparison (and I
didn't much care for that). Luthor as crazy, essentially a retread of
what we've seen as Heath Ledger as Joker, would have alone ruined the
movie if that were the only bad thing about it. LL is a brilliant,
evil, power hungry genius, not... whatever he was supposed to be here.

I cannot get into Batman's motivation. He's a ruthless violent
vigilante who's above the law, and he despises Superman for being...
above the law. I get the initial distrust thing, but I didn't buy into
the whole picture of just wanting to be judge, jury, and executioner
without even interacting with Supes first. Not cool, Bats.

Lex lets himself into the Kryptonian vessel, with the shaved fingertips
of Zod? Kryptonian tech has *terrible* security; maybe they should give
Apple a call - no, wait; the FBI hacked that. And then the computer
recognizes the carcass of Zod, and doesn't go, "Hey, who are you? I
thought *you* were Zod!" - and then kill him.

I know I was supposed to laugh or cheer when Batman tells Ma Kent, "I'm
a friend of your son's," but for me it was flat. 10 minutes ago, he
wanted to kill him.

On the way home, my wife and I were discussing the movie, with these
observations and more. She asked me, "Was there anything about the
movie you liked?" I thought real hard, and said, "um... no. Sorry to
have suggested it and make you watch it." And thus justifies my 1-Star
review. I guess I kind of liked how Superman comported himself with
dignity, and was reasonably well-acted by Cavill. But not enough to
change my score.

Hey, wasn't there also something about Wonder Woman in the movie? That
quickly faded from memory.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER ALERT !!! (Funny how there can still be such a thing when the
movie is already spoiled to begin with)

This movie was marketed to patrons of all ages but only appeals to ages
12 or younger. 

My top 8 reasons (in no discernible order) to avoid seeing this movie
and save 2 1/2 hours of your life...Don't do it!

1. Amy Adams/ Lois Lane - Wow! what a terribly written part for this
character...Clueless and painfully unaffected by everything going on
around her... I speak for all true Superman fans when I say, Margot
Kidder, eat your heart out baby!

2. The opening sequence - Bat boy Bruce Wayne sees his parents killed
at gunpoint....AGAIN! Why must we always have to be spoon-fed the
origin of this character in every damn movie. The psychotic flashbacks
from his past will likely be thrown in later on in the movie and can
allude to the dark knights brooding demeanor just fine, thank you.

3, Zack (rhymes with HACK!) Snyder/ The Director - The slow motion
scenes used in this movie are such a desperate contrivance. His
signature trademark only lends to extending the run time of the movie
(ad-nauseum) and slows the pacing down (or lack thereof) to a complete
stand still at times. There's slo mo used during the funeral
scene...'NUFF SAID!

4. Confusion - Early scenes will attempt to confuse the viewer
(successfully) in order to tie together several gaping plot holes
(unsuccessfully). The problem here is you can see these outcomes coming
a mile away. The viewer is left feeling patronized and a lack of a
decent script becomes evident, as a result.

5. Jeremy Irons/ Alfred the butler - Holy cow man! This guy has been
mailing it in for the better part of 2 decades (since Die Hard with a
Vengeance). It seems the studio financiers felt the need to strengthen
the budget here by slashing the Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine
salaries allowing the 2 characters to morph into one, contemptible
performance by a British actor with some real acting "chops"

6. Jesse Eisenberg/ Lex Luthor - Wins the award for all time best
over-acting a comic book villain since Willem Dafoe played the Green
Goblin. After this heinous acting performance by Eisenberg, I am
beginning to think Heath Ledger raised the bar too high for this new
generation of Hollywood soft, pretentious pretty boy actors. 

7. THE MAIN PLOT OBLITERATED BY.... Their MOTHERS HAVE THE SAME FIRST
NAME- 2 hours of very thin plot will be totally obliterated by Batman
in a scene so horribly painful. The very premise from the start is
Batman going after Superman. When the audience finally arrives at this
crucial moment, The Batman is going to end The Superman and get what he
so painfully wanted the whole time...AND what happens next?
unfortunately it goes down like this, I kid you not! Superman says
Martha!, his mothers name and Batman says WHAT! WHY did you say that
name, Martha!, that's my moms name!, and then Superman says MARTHA!
HEY! that's my moms name! and then they cry and hug each other and
become best of friends the rest of the movie!

8. LAST BUT NOT LEAST - BEN AFFLECK/ BATMAN WOW WOW WOW ...Val Kilmer
and George Clooney are breathing a collective sigh of relief after
seeing this pile of steroid garbage take on the role of Batman. Yes
after 2 long decades the monkey has been removed off of their
backs...The worst possible Batman performance in history award can now
be owned solely by Mr. Ben Affleck...Did anyone ever doubt him???
<|_=00=_|>
Boy oh Boy....this was a great experience....I have to say after Man of
Steel (which was okay but by no means great), I didn't have much
expectations from this, and to top it off the castings for this film
had set the comic book fans on fire. But tell you what, this is epic.
Some people are even calling it better than the Dark Knight, while I
wouldn't go that far, I would still call this a complete package.
Affleck's Batman is AMAZING. His Bruce Wayne is not as cool and casual
as Christian Bale's but he doesn't need to considering this is a
relatively old Batman who has seen some very dark times. His
partnership with Jeremy Irons adds some much needed lightness to the
movie. Cavill delivered the dialogues during the fight scene with
Batman in a near perfect way. Gal Gadot had a much bigger role to play
than seen in the trailers. And Jesse was good in a complex way. Fans
have to understand that his Luthor is not muscular as compared to what
we have seen in previous Superman movies His Luthor is an evil genius
who does a great job of pitting the two giants against each other.
Jesse played the role to his strengths as he should have. Contrary to
the popular perception(especially after the third trailer) that the
whole movie was spoil-ed, the plot was way more deeper than we
imagined. The only issues were a fight scene where CGI looked dull and
maybe, just maybe a bit over stuffing. But overall, this is EPIC.
