
In 2000 a show started airing on MTV that had a group of guys 
performing stunts. These were not just regular stunts, these were 
stunts that required a "don't try this at home warning" before every 
show. I never was a fan, or I thought I wasn't, the problem was I never 
actually sat down and watched it. Well it was such a success the guys 
took their antics to the big screen, and that is where I discovered the 
joy of Jackass. 

Johnny Knoxville can take a hit, as well as everyone in his crew. Now, 
while some things border on disgusting, in the end you can do nothing 
but laugh at just how far these guys will go. Unlike the previous 
movies/ TV show, "Bad Grandpa" is a different approach, but provides 
just as many laughs. Irving Zisman (Johnny Knoxville) has just lost his 
wife. To make things more complicated, his daughter drops off his 
grandson Billy (Jackson Nicoll), so that Irving can take him to his 
father who lives cross country. The deal is, it's all fake. The purpose 
of the trip is to catch people's reaction to everything from stealing, 
destroying property, and even crashing a kid beauty pageant. They do 
this all while having Irving's dead wife in the trunk. It is all done 
for laughs, and trust me you will have plenty of those as you watch 
this movie. 

It is easy to be like how I was before I actually watched these guys in 
action and judge them as idiots. In the end they may be idiots, but 
they will make you laugh, and at times cry. I know these movies are not 
for everyone, but for those of you who go see it, you will have a great 
time. You get to see a picture of Middle America and the many 
characters we have living in this great country. I haven't laughed as 
hard in a movie in a long time, and I have seen a lot of so called 
comedies this year alone that did very little to bring the funny. So 
don't be like me, don't judge this book by its cover. Go see "Bad 
Grandpa" because the world is a much better place with laughter, and 
this movie provides plenty of it.

Brian Taylor 


<|_=00=_|>
Despite all its low brow humor and childish gags Bad Grandpa is by far
one of the funniest and seriously ingenious comedies of the year and
when watched with the right mindset will be a thoroughly enjoyable 90
minutes at the movies.

Played by a worryingly good Johnny Knoxville Irving Zisman is the
titular bad grandpa, a man set upon every women he sees and a man that
finds himself in many a hilarious situation. Whether Irving is at a
bingo center, diner or postal office Johnny Knoxville inhabits him
wholly and completely that one forgets we are watching a pretend old
man. It must be said also that some of the film's most quiet and funny
moments come from Knoxville merely waltzing about town in full old man
get up, waving and traipsing about his business as passer byes are none
the wiser. Knoxville's strong inhabitation of Irving however would have
been wasted if his grandson weren't such a mischievous delight as well.

As played by child actor Jackson Nicholl Irving's grandson Billy is the
perfect foil for the antics the film sets up and Nicholl displays a
rare ability for a child to think on a whim and more than once he will
have you laughing hysterically with his verbal comebacks or physical
comedy (A highlight being the trailer centerpiece and films ace up the
sleeve beauty pageant routine). It's good to see Jackass stalwart and
co-creator Jeff Tremaine handle both the situations and actors so well
and one senses that this creation will set forward more projects under
the similar vein of real life candid cameras mixed with a anchoring
plot line.

Obviously not for everyone and more likely to offended than not Bad
Grandpa is still a must see for all comedy fans and even if Jackass is
not your usual cup of lime juice Bad Grandpa offers up a welcome
deviation from the usual Jackass presentations and a showpiece for just
how funny Knoxville is when given the right material.

4 knocked over penguins out of 5 

For more movie reviews and opinions head over to - 

www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Grandpa is a film I certainly wasn't anticipating. Unlike a lot of
people my age, I don't support Jackass, or enjoy any of their films.
They just seem a little too over the top for my liking. But despite
this, surprisingly, I adored Bad Grandpa! 

I'm going to keep this short and to the point. Johnny Knoxville is
fantastic as Irving, an incredibly raunchy and hilarious 86 year old
man. Thrown into real life prank situations, he steals the show,
pranking people in some bizarre and incredible ways that I just
couldn't stop laughing at! His grandson within the film, Billy, played
by Jackson Nicoll, is awesome as well, managing to create some
fantastic scenarios which will leave you in stitches. I'm really
surprised that I didn't mind this child actor, as I normally have a
problem against their type. Nicoll though, killed it as Billy. 

Despite the fact that a lot of these jokes presented are incredibly
over the top, I really enjoyed the comedy here. It had me laughing the
majority of the way through, and I honestly couldn't believe what they
were doing in public. Jackass knows how to make pranks work, and here
is easily their best work. 

I didn't have expectations for Bad Grandpa; none good at least. I was
pleasantly surprised though! Whilst not nearly the best comedy released
in 2013, this is surely the funniest. If you love pranks, or Jackass,
or both, you'll adore this film!

8.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Grandpa (2013) 

**** (out of 4) 

Johnny Knoxville dresses up as old man Irving Zisman and takes a trip
from Nebraska to North Carolina to take his grandson (Jackson Nicoll)
back to his real father. BAD GRANDPA comes from the JACKASS team and
while I did enjoy the show and the three previous films, all of them
simply wore out their welcome after a while but that's certainly not
the case with this film. I'm not going to go into great detail about
the various pranks in the film because it's best to go in without
knowing too many of them. I will say that this here doesn't resort to
physical violence all that much, although there are a couple examples.
The main focus is just this weird old man who puts his grandson into
all sorts of bad situations and usually makes them worse. I think the
film is remarkably funny and I'd probably call it one of the funniest
films I've seen in a very long time. Again, I'm not a JACKASS die-hard
but even if you hate that show you'll simply fall for the variety of
dirty humor here. We get stuff dealing with the old man's sex life, his
dead wife, various scenes of him playing drunk and causing trouble and
of course there are some of the moments that everyone saw in the
trailer like the beauty pageant. Why four stars? Why not? The film
really is a laugh riot from the opening scene to the very last one and
a lot of credit has to go to Knoxville and the various writers. What
really makes this film work is a little "story" built around all the
jokes about this grandfather coming closer to his grandson. It's
oh-so-silly but that's the point. The various situations the two find
themselves in are certainly the highlight of the picture as we get some
downright shocking scenes. There are even moments that you'll see
coming from a mile away but then you'll get a twist that will just have
tears running down your face. BAD GRANDPA certainly earns its R-rating
but it's also one of the funniest films in a very long time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start this review by saying I've never really got all the humor of
the Jackass crew. Well that's not true, I got a lot of the humor, but
it was interrupted by cringe worthy bits that turned me off to them in
general over the years. I really did try to like the first couple of
Jackass movies, but they were more sporadic laughs and face palming,
than comedy gold. This movie looked funny from the previews so I
thought why not give the Jackass genre another shot. I couldn't of been
more surprised. This movie had me laughing end to end, and only giving
me time to breath in-between. The number of face palming instances I
could count on my hand, which was the most surprising. There were two
points in the movie that had me dying, and thinking genius, as I just
shook my head reeling with laughter. I'm not the easiest person to get
to laugh out loud, but this movie had me doing it regularly. A great
watch, highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
In a world overrun by forgettable, banal reality television, Jackass
has distinguished itself as a franchise with unexpected staying power.
Who would have thought that a television show about pulling pranks on
unsuspecting members of the public would go on to dominate the silver
screen as well? That's precisely what Johnny Knoxville and his
compatriots have done, however. Bad Grandpa marks the Jackass crew's
fourth foray into the realm of feature films. The movie is itself more
ambitious than its predecessors, betting that one character - an
apparently doddering 86-year-old man - can carry an actual plot and an
enormous arsenal of pranks. Surprisingly, it's a gamble that pays off:
Bad Grandpa is frequently as funny as it is in bad taste.

The ostensible plot of it all goes something like this: Irving Zisman
(Knoxville) is saddled with his grandson Billy (Jackson Nicoll) when
his flaky daughter is sent to prison and his wife Ellie (Catherine
Keener - yes, really!) passes away. Resolving to palm his grandson off
to his ne'er-do-well son-in-law, Irving embarks on a road trip across
America - an adventure that takes them from strip club to diner, from
funeral to beauty pageant, and everything in between. Along the way,
they meet people from all walks of life: most of them unsuspecting,
several of them kind, all of them pretty good sports.

Much of the thrill of watching Bad Grandpa comes from knowing that it
is a hidden-camera comedy - one that draws its greatest laughs and
amusement from people who have no clue that Irving isn't actually a
senior citizen. Many of the pranks border on the tasteless (Irving gets
a crucial body part caught in a vending machine, grandpa and grandson
engage in a flatulence contest in a diner with disastrous results), but
the horrified looks on the faces of innocent passers-by make it all
work. There are even some moments of inspired comic genius: chiefly,
the set-pieces that take place in a strip club and at a beauty pageant.
(To spoil you any further, dear reader, would be criminal.) 

It takes a pair of seasoned performers not to crack and give the game
away. Knoxville, of course, has years of experience and bodily injury
under his belt, and he is astonishingly good at playing a bawdy old man
with very few social (and some might say moral) filters. The great
surprise is Nicoll, a child with the most perfectly deadpan of faces -
he's hilariously convincing whether he's asking a complete stranger to
adopt him or re-enacting a scenario reminiscent of Abigail Breslin's
wildly inappropriate grind-bump dance in Little Miss Sunshine.

This is - evidently - very far from great cinema, even though director
Jeff Tremaine does actually manage to sneak a little more sentiment and
plot into the film than you might expect. But great cinema does not
always equate into a fun, brainless night out at the cinema - which Bad
Grandpa, if you set your expectations as low as they can go, will
almost indubitably provide you.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a huge fan of the Jackass movies and am approaching 50 so maybe
not in the target demographic but the trailer for the movie made us
laugh so we went to see it. Most of the time I was chuckling rather
than out and out belly laughing. But one scene in particular (the strip
club) almost made me hyperventilate. I literally couldn't catch my
breath because I was laughing so hard. It's one of the funniest scenes
that I can recall ever seeing in a movie. The boy who plays the kid is
excellent, he's very believable and cute and for such a young boy he
does very well in what is not really a straightforward acting role. If
you have the right sense of humour for this type of thing, I highly
recommend it (if you're aged 14-25 and male it's a guaranteed hit). If
you hate Jackass and all it represents, don't bother paying to see it
in a theater, maybe wait for cable because that one scene in the strip
club IS worth seeing (unless you're an overly sensitive prude!).
<|_=00=_|>
There are three stars in this film, the shining John Knoxville, the
stellar fat kid and the bit actors that are American society. Knoxville
has undoubted talent and shines throughout disguised as a senior
citizen behaving badly as his libido flourishes entering widowhood. The
fat kid being his screen grandson who seems to have inherited the
granddad's on screen bravado and Knoxville's real world talent. A laugh
out loud road movie that circles the underbelly of American society
with its tongue and leaves you with a sweet lingering taste of other
America on your palate. There is an insight in this comedy and this is
that every American appears to be hanging around waiting to be in a
movie. All the world is a stage but the USA appears to be a rolling
film lot, waiting for the next crew to hit town with all the residents
switching to bit part mode at any perceived opportunity. They may not
be the brightest stars in this film but the ordinary people do shine
and without them the other stars would not seem so bright. Yes its
laugh out loud slapstick but the humanity and kindness of the real
people give soul to a film that badly handled could have been
exploitative and cruel. Go and enjoy it, no animals or Americans where
harmed in the making of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
this was a great movie. its nice to see true reactions of people to
insane behavior, and personally a little sad that the Jackass gang got
so famous that we would never get to see another movie like Jackass 1,
but with Knoxville all "Dunn" up like a old man gave him the chance to
do it one more time.

a lot of people this this is crude humor and penis jokes. and i
wouldn't say jackass is know for their great scripts, but this is a
stand up movie in itself. i had to keep reminding myself through out
the movie that the kid knew that this was a movie and that they were
playing a joke on all these people at the same time. they used many
cameras and angels to capture everything and every reaction. and that
kid should win an award, he sold it the whole movie.

any one who voted this down has no sense of humor.

rip Ryan.
