
I took my youngest child, six years old (nearly seven), to see this
yesterday. He bounced around like Tigger the whole way through, and
only paused to turn around once in a while to tell me "This is the best
movie ever!" This coming from a boy who loves everything from Harry
Potter, Star Wars, Top Gear (and Grand Tour), to Tractor Ted and
Octonauts.

As an adult, it was a perfectly acceptable way to spend a couple of
hours enjoying the company of my child. There's not a lot to the story,
so if you've seen the trailer you won't be surprised. The monsters
straddle the line well between being "monstrous" and cute (my boy acted
suitably scared until it became clear that the monsters were on the
good side, after which he loved them).

He came out of the cinema asking when it would be available on DVD, so
on balance a glowing recommendation from a 6 year old and a warm fuzzy
one from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure why so many are hating on this one, or basing reviews on what
happened before it got to screen.

Took my 4-, 8-, 12-year-olds to see it on Saturday. All three of them
enjoyed it, and I did, too. Simple enough story for the kids to
understand, with little in the way of violence, profanity, sex to
battle through. 

Acting was good, as was the CGI. don't go in expecting The Godfather or
anything -- but for a family-friendly flick with a good message, this
serves its purpose extremely well. The "monsters" are cute enough for
the most part and, when they bare their teeth, it's Star Wars-level
"scary", if that makes sense.

Overall, check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to commend the filmmakers on this film. There was a lot of bad
press about it even coming from the studio as writing it off as a loss
before it was even released. 

My kids (11 and 8) have been wanting to see it since we saw a trailer
ages ago. I thought the concept was a bit crazy, but it did seem like
fun. 

After reading that Paramount was already writing it down as a loss,
pretty much told me the movie must not be that good. I didn't want to
not take my kids just because of that. 

Cut to today. We saw the fist showing this morning. I have to say the
movie was a lot of fun. It called back to films from the 80's when I
was a little film-goer. Director Chris Wedge really made a fun film
that has monsters and trucks, it truly lived up to it's title. I feel
like he (the director) was really pulling from films like the
Explorers, Flight of the Navigator, and a bit of Gremlins. Funny,
action packed and not long for the sake of being long like so many
movies today. It told a cute story and let us on our way. 

About halfway through the movie, I realized why I was enjoying it. It
was not something from another property, no comic book characters, it
wasn't a sequel. It was something to get wrapped up in and enjoy. 

I just wanted to say that we really enjoyed it and I hope more people
give it a chance. It's not going to solve the world's problems, but
it's certainly going to entertain you. First thing my 11- year-old said
after it was over was, "Can we see this again tomorrow?" Not sure if
there is a better admission of how fun it was. 

Very fun!
<|_=00=_|>
A young loner discovers a monster in a junkyard and finds he can use it
to power his car. Soon he befriends the monster and sets out to help it
find it's way home.

Great special effects and some good performances from some likable lead
actors makes this an enjoyable movie to watch. Don't expect the plot to
hold up to well under strict scrutiny but it is a kids film after all.
There are some good positive messages about family and friends with a
little bit of a green message too but nothing heavy handed.

The monster is very likable and the film has some funny moments too.
Definitely recommended. I know I would have loved this as a kid and
would have certainly enjoyed the action scenes in the second half of
the movie. I can imagine younger kids of today having fond memories of
this movie in the future. I just hope people give the movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched Monster trucks today with my five year old son and we both
loved it. He was pretty much glued to the screen the entire time and he
got a bit teary at the end! The film centres on a lad who spends all
his spare time building a truck at a junkyard he helps out around,
three undiscovered squid like creatures escape from a nearby oil
drilling project. One of these finds his way into the truck and ends up
powering it and of course the usual bad guys want it back story line
evolves. Nothing new in terms of originality or plot, in fact it had so
many plot holes it was ridiculous but it's a kids film. Actors did a
good job and the monsters were likable. Quite a lot of action and
humour too, it's never dull. Definitely a boys/male film I think in my
opinion. a kind of a cross between "the legend of the waterhorse", "ET"
and "Herbie" Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Monster Truck is one of the greatest movies ever made, move over
godfather, Monster Trucks is king. With a very deep narrative,
beautiful animation (Seriously sometimes I can't even tell if something
is cgi or not) and comedy that rivals the greats such as Jerry
Seinfeld, Kevin Hart and the greatest of them all, Adam Sandler,
Monster Trucks will leave you on your knees begging for more.

I'm afraid that people are not ready for monster trucks. It has some
fierce competition this January with movies like xXx and Resident Evil.
Monster Trucks really should have been a summer movie or a Christmas
movie, But unfortunately is has to compete with Heck Yeah! Its January!
Where companies put out their better (but more experimental) films
(Which I think is an insult to Monster Trucks because that movie is way
out of those other movies leagues)

Monster Trucks will save us, but it needs your help. If you want
Monster Trucks to save us from Trump, Kathleen Wynne, War, World Hunger
and will even be there for you to save you, buy your tickets for
Monster Trucks, because when Monster Truck succeeds, everyone does.
<|_=00=_|>
From the creator of ice age bring you a great little quirk film Monster
trucks that will touch you heart & bring you to tears & laughter , this
film truly is one of the guilty pleasure film that a across ET meet
Herbie that you sure will love.

I went in to this film not knowing what to expect other than what was
shown in the trailer, i was presently surprised on how good this film
is for what it was , i loved the concept of this film as it not just
one of the creatures from out of space type of film which is
refreshing.

It's some much different which gives this film is edge , you really can
help but fall in love with this creature he called screech , as it got
this lovable adorable funny sense of humor for a creature that give it
a personality which is great for the film.

Lucas Till is brilliant giving us the type of person that from a broken
family , the step dads a bit of a jerk but he's brilliant playing this
role who befriends screech together they make this film's adventure
just that special brilliant chemistry between the characters as well
really sell the film.

Jane Levy co-star playing the young girl who has a crush on Tripp
playing the quirk girl reminds me of Lindsey Lohan character from
Herbie in a way just as a side character as she unwittingly gets
involved in trying to get screech home.

The the visual effect on the C.G.I is brilliant done , special when the
design of the creature is brilliant done. One thing that stop this film
from being one of those boring flopped film's IMO is the melt your
heart moment in the film seriously touches you heart put a tear in your
eye's.

It's beautifully done moments along with the action make this a worth
while film to watch with your family , special ending the film was a
beautiful way to end this type of film which i think a sequel could be
done.

Dislikes : There is one moment in the film that a little unrealistic
but this is a PG so you cant really have to much violence in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Starts off by giving little information about some of the core
characters. Slowly building up to the first meeting with "creech".

My Kids absolutely loved it, they don't care about CGI, does it look
like another, or how hammy some of the acting may be. They wanted to
see an fun, entertaining film, and they certainly got that!

In some ways the creature reminded me of "Toothless" from How to Train
a Dragon, but that would be down to it being a child.

Overall, the plot was great for a family movie, few minor plot holes,
but the kids didn't notice that (nor should they tbh)

Overall, I took the kids knowing what the film was about and what to
expect, and it was delivered.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for this movie, I thought it was going to be bad
but fun. I was surprised at how good it was but it had a few flaws.

First of all, this movie is extremely well made. Recently, I noticed
kids movies were going down in quality. What I mean is that they are
more badly filmed these days. This movie is extremely well directed.
There's no shaky cam or badly filmed scenes.When you go see a movie
that got 4.2/10, you expect the scenes to be badly filmed but no. It's
very solidly filmed, even the action scenes. This makes for an
entertaining movie. 

The action scenes are pretty good in this movie. There are two main
scenes and they are extremely well filmed. When I saw the reviews from
this movie, I knew right away not to believe them because I know Chris
Wedge is a good director and he did well with these action sequences.
This is the guy that made Epic and Ice Age. He's very good.

The story is alright but you couldn't really expect it to be super
complex. It's a movie about driving monster trucks. Enough said. That
being said, it may be simple but it holds up well with the good
directing. The critics will say what they will but no one could expect
a complex movie from this. It's nothing new but it works well.

The acting wasn't that good. I thought that Lucas Till would be better.
Jane Levy was not bad and the bad guy was menacing enough. Something
that I found weird in this movie is that they accidentally murder
people and it's okay. There's a scene where Tripp's truck jumps onto
another one and it gets crushed and goes sliding 20 feet and everyone
just goes off as if nothing happened even though that guy is clearly
dead.

While not groundbreaking, Monster Trucks holds up quite well. It's very
well directed and has good action scenes. This makes for an
entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A post Christmas treat with my 8 year old daughter. We'd seen a trailer
of this when watching Moana and my little one was eager to see this at
the cinema on a Daddy/Daughter day.

The films ancient creature effects were generally very good, and
convincing enough for the young target audience. A mix of ET and an
octopus!

The acting, from a few old hands and some youngsters, was well
targeted, nothing too deep or hard to follow.

The plot was easy to follow, with clear differences between the good
and bad characters, and strong family values. Both human and not.

The driving stunts were good. Allowing the target audience comfort that
their favourite characters would be safe.

While the film is likely aimed at a male grouping, it has enough
content for each gender.

I'm scoring this 8/10. It was a brilliant film for its youthful
audience.
