
Mom's Night Out is one of the most delightful comedies I have seen in
years. It was pure joy to sit through a film that was not filled with
crude, raunchy, vulgar "humor" or language. I honestly had doubts about
even attending; my thoughts were "chick flick" (not a huge fan), the
"dad is inept" routine (whose popularity is what led me to quit
watching television comedies years ago), and how rare comedy is with
faith-based films. I seldom cry or laugh at films, in theaters anyway,
but I laughed out loud during much of this film. Best part? I laughed
at loud because it genuinely appealed to my sense of humor. Sadly, I
have been known to laugh out loud because a film is poorly written or
made, but this film is simply funny.

During the past couple of days, I have read some bad reviews of the
film, and I want to address those. The ones I have read have been
written by people who apparently attack any film that has Christianity
shown in a positive light (and Mom's Night Out is by no stretch of the
imagination an evangelical film), stay at home moms (the laments by
some of the reviewers about Allyson's lack of employment are a humorous
read themselves), and those who actually seem to feel a need for
raunchy humor and crude language. I have read a few comments about it
being "sexist"; I saw couples I recognize----partners who know that
marriage is not 50/50 but 100/100, and that sometimes one needs a bit
more support (and it works both ways). Instead of seeing a small slice
of life, these reviewers have completely defined people based on one
storyline.

I remember having a 'come-apart' a couple of times when a house full of
children, especially pre-schoolers, got overwhelming. That is a part of
who I am, but not the complete person. Understand what I mean? So, I
could completely relate to the film and various characters in it. Some
parts edged toward 'screwball comedy', which I happen to love, but
sometimes you need to suspend belief for a while. So, take a break,
relax, and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Moms' Night Out is such a breath of fresh air! It's clean! I could take
whoever I wanted to, and leave without blushing. The film will most
likely appeal to moms (particular those with younger kids), as it is
easy to relate and see yourself in the characters. I literally laughed
out loud (even to the point of tears more than once) for the majority
of the movie. Love, love, love it! A must see, and an especially great
mother's day movie to enjoy with a mom.

This is actually the second time I've seen the movie, and I thought it
was just as funny the second time around! I've already planned two more
group outings with my mom friends. I'm telling you, as a mom of
preschoolers I loved it!

I've read several reviews that were not favorable towards the movie,
and I have to say the person writing the review must not be a mom (and
possibly not a parent at all). The movie was written for someone like
me. I get it. I know that I find some of the gags funny because I've
either experienced them or something similar. Much of the movie is a
true to life look at a moms life (not a complete look by any means, but
I think every mom has had one of those days). I think if you fit their
target audience, you'll love the film as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is refreshingly wholesome and since I had my 17 year old
daughter with me, it was nice not to worry about embarrassing scenes. I
thought it was a girls movie, and it would be perfect for a girl's
night out, but it was also a movie that would be awesome for a date
night if you have young kids. It was funny, and quirky, but it also had
moments of deep truth about what it is like to have those "mommie
moments" when you just feel like a total out of control mess. It
addresses the sense of failure moms with young kids and teenagers often
have, and you walk out a little bit renewed. Dad's will gain better
understanding of what it is like to be a mom. All of these cute life
lessons are wrapped around goofy humor that is a lot of fun. Trace
Adkins as a big, burly biker guy was adorable. This is a perfect
Mother's Day movie that is totally appropriate for kids too.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! It was such a pleasure to see a movie that all of
my kids could watch without embarrassing moments. All the negative
reviews seem to be bent on tearing down Christian writers/directors.
The movie was a breath of fresh air and my family will pay to see these
types of films. We stopped years ago wasting our money on films that
have vulgar language and nudity. Great job Pure Flix for such a quality
movie that hits the heart and makes us laugh!:) I want to add that I
read reviews that called the film sexist and that is their way of
putting a negative spin to get people not to support this movie. I am a
stay at home mother and a grandmother and our job at home is just as
important to be there for our children and husbands as someone who
works in an office or a school.
<|_=00=_|>
I created an account just so I could balance out the glorious reviews.
I think I see what the creators of Mom's Night Out were trying to do,
but they failed miserably.

Like a previous reviewer mentioned, every single character was a
caricature, even the kids! A mom pulling into a church parking lot is
going to let her 4 year old apply her mascara simply because she threw
a fit? Give me a break. How about having the mascara messed up because
she kept getting her seat bumped by active kids? That would have been
realistic and provided the same results. And there is a way to show
Dads out of their element without turning them into morons. I think
Michael Keaton managed that quite successfully in Mr. Mom.

As a mom I was looking forward to seeing this movie with my husband.
But at the end of the night I felt like I got cheated out of a Mom's
Night Out.
<|_=00=_|>
The critics got it right. The movie is awful.

Having a popular star like Patricia Heaton in this movie is not enough
to save it. The mothers and fathers depicted in this movie are mostly
idiots and should never have had children. The script wouldn't have
been approved for an ABC afternoon special because it's so poor.

My wife and I went to see the movie because the 17 user reviews
available at the time on IMDb gave the movie an 8 or above with
accolades like: "Love this movie," "Perfect Mother's Day Fun,"
"Funniest movie I have seen in a long time," and "Greatest Movie Ever
Made." Don't believe any of these reviews. Having seen the movie, it's
clear to me that the reviewers had an ulterior motive.

My history teacher in college, when announcing the next test date,
would always preface his remarks with "I know a word to the wise is
foolish." This was generally aimed at those who would put off studying
for the test until the last minute. Well, being foolish, I would like
to offer a word to the wise which I failed to follow when considering
this movie. For movies you are unsure you would like, don't trust a
very positive or very negative review on IMDb unless you at least scan
all of that user's reviews. This will give you an idea where the user
is coming from; if his/her tastes agree with yours; and whether there
are any ulterior motives in posting the review. 

If a film has been absolutely panned on Metacritic, like this one was,
be careful about selecting to go to that movie in the theaters. IMDb is
generally a good source of what the users say. The operative word is
"generally." In this instance it was not.

My review was a warning that this movie is not worth seeing. The fact
that only 2 of 13 users so far found this warning helpful offers
another clue about how IMDb reviewers can have an agenda. Who were the
11 people who found that my warning was not helpful? Are they the same
people who find stop signs annoying or could they possibly be the same
people who wrote the overwhelming positive reviews of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When I sat down to watch this movie, I really didn't know what to
expect. As it went on, I was pleasantly surprised at a movie that was
in my mind a "G" rated movie that I truthfully enjoyed from start to
finish. A rare family movie that is hard to find today's world. Moms
and dads can let their children watch "Mom's Night Out" and everyone
will enjoy it. A movie that rings true for any mom with young children
who is feeling stagnant and just craves some justification in her life
and needs a night out with the girls for some good, clean fun.
Unfortunately, Allyson (Sarah Drew), Sondra, the preacher's wife
(Patricia Heaton) and Bridget (Abbie Cobb) and Izzy (Andrea Logan) find
themselves in a big jam and through many mishaps everything works out.
In the end, Allyson finally feels content in her life and writes her
blog with the insight that's what she was hoping for. A must watch.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I don't mind raunchy. But I appreciate clean because I can see
it with kids and my folks. 

A good clean comedy is awesome. And I don't mind faith message movies.
I believe in God, just not active in any religion/church.

After seeing this movie I thought about some of the African American
oriented movies I have seen and they always deal with religion and
faith in a way more organic and interesting way. 

So this movie is a bit less subtle about religion. OK. that would have
been fine if it would actually have been FUNNY.

this is a not funny movie that but is is safe for your churchy family.
bummer. I would rather watch paint dry while I knit.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't walked out of a movie in who knows when, maybe not ever
before this. I feel like now I need to take a break from watching
movies for a while, it was that awful. Poor little rich girl gains no
audience sympathy and continues to whine throughout (at least until the
middle when I could not take it any longer). This felt like a huge
piece of propaganda for a megawhitechurch. I am white and was offended
by how white and whiny this movie is. Jokes are so forced to be
painful. Plot is so forced that it makes you want to whine as much as
these very annoying women. But they whine so much that you will never
want to again. Very little believability even by a fine actor like Sean
Astin. This definitely does not even do a good job propagandizing.
Steer clear!
<|_=00=_|>
From the beginning, the main character Ally is extremely annoying;
self-pitying, germophobic, and completely distressed. She doesn't
remind of the many moms I know. The way she lets her kids get away with
so much without discipline is a big part of why she's unhappy.

I found it odd that there is a very weak portrayal of the husband and
wife's love for one another. This would have added more warmth to the
movie. Instead this is about a married couple that seem disconnected
from one another.

Other than the pastor, the dads in the movie are portrayed as weak,
irresponsible, or idiots.

There are aspects of the movie that I like: no sexual references, some
good clean humor, a couple well-known actors and actresses, a good
message here and there. However, the bad far outweighs the good. I
enjoyed about 1/3 of the movie, the rest was a disappointment.
