
Wow, seeing some of these reviews really made me laugh. "Generic, it's
the exact same thing as if you were playing a FPS game!" Maybe those
who are saying those things saw a different trailer than me? This movie
is exactly what it was promoted to be. An hour and thirty six minutes
of a lot of violence, jokes, and well, shakiness. Within the first 30
minutes of the movie, many people walked out murmuring to themselves
"this is stupid, my head hurts" and I really questioned why they even
bought a ticket in the first place if watching a shaky camera hurts
your head? Why did a group of middle aged women go see this, and leave
shortly after? DID YOU STUMBLE UPON THE WRONG MOVIE?

Besides my little rant, I most definitely recommend this movie. I am
not a major fan of FPS games, but having the entire movie filmed with
Go Pro's, along with the great action made this a very fun and
enjoyable movie. It doesn't take itself seriously, as it knows exactly
what it is. As much as I hate when people say this, it is one of those
movies where you really can turn your brain off and enjoy it.

I smiled throughout the entire movie, and though the trailers show some
really cool shots from the movie, there is still plenty of fun in the
movie to where you really do not get bored one bit. The park-our scenes
are truly something else as well, with major respect to the stunt- men
who did their job perfectly. The music choice was also something that I
truly enjoyed, it fit the movie very well. The acting, while little of
it, was passable and did not really strike me as "bad." 

If you are a person who can't stand something like the Bourne movies
for their shaky cam, do not see this. If you love action movies and
really want to admire great fight scenes and plenty of mayhem, go see
this.

And for those saying the idea is not original, yes, movies shot in
first person are not original. But for an action movie of this caliber,
I would say it is an experience that is definitely worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
'Hardcore' is the riveting story of a newly-made cyborg who must save
his wife from evil tyrants and...wait a minute. Who cares?? The whole
movie is a blast!!

Ilya Naishuller is a young director who had a very cool idea to shoot
an action film from a first-person perspective using a GoPro Hero3
Black Edition camera. The proof of concept was released as "Biting
Elbows: Bad Motherf***er". It was pitched publicly and helped to
successfully crowd-fund the feature, 'Hardcore'.

It's better to keep this short and sweet: the film is extraordinarily
violent; not for the squeamish. It has plenty of action, free-running,
stunts, and plenty of room for comedic elements. Even the opening
titles give you a taste of what's to come!

Sharlto Copley (District 9, and other Neill Blomkamp projects) plays
the main POV's assistant throughout the film. Copley definitely gives a
range of character performances and is quality. Wearing many hats, he
guides you along as if you were needing assistance in a video game,
which, by the way, this film makes several references to. In
particular, the Chernobyl level in Call of Duty 4 with Capt.
MacMillian. Even the opening scenes are reminiscent of Half-Life, and a
lot of the free-running scenes are inspired by Mirror's Edge.

For those who are wondering, no. You likely won't get dizzy watching a
90-minute action film from an FP perspective. Well, maybe you shouldn't
sit in the front row. Otherwise, you will have a blast.

'Hardcore' is an all-around fun time. Just be okay with the violence.
It's only 90 minutes of your time that you'll likely want to experience
over and over again. Or, you'll just want to plug in a play a few
games. 

Either way, it's bloody fun!
<|_=00=_|>
* Spoiler Free *

Just saw this at TIFF 2015 Midnight Madness. Judging by the constant
applause and laughter throughout, the audience LOVED it. I thought it
was truly INCREDIBLE and genuinely new... a landmark film. Hopefully
that will be recognized without hindsight. I believe Hardcore has the
chance to be Star Wars for this generation... or perhaps a Terminator
or a Reservoir Dogs. I'm writing this to help ensure that happens.
Context: I also thought Crank was great.

The ENTIRE movie takes place in FIRST PERSON point of view (POV). ALL
90 MINUTES. It never gets old and the POV remains a strength
throughout. I never got motion sickness (and the movie moves fast -
incredibly fast). After the movie, the director mentioned the Vimeo
short would be unwatchably choppy on the big screen. 2 engineers spent
2 months creating a special rig with 2 magnetically stabilized GoPros
to shoot the film. This new rig is the reason why the audience didn't
get motion sickness.

I've never seen action like this. It's not just regular action scenes
filmed in first person. It's superheroic parkour, fantastical fights,
and video game gunplay all presented in first person. Seen from a
regular angle, the action would likely be too cartoonish. The POV helps
ground everything, making it more believable. Added Bonus: During many
scenes you'll wonder how the POV camerman didn't get killed.

Hardcore is incredibly violent, but rarely nasty. People who play
modern FPS's will not bat an eye, others will be shocked and appalled.
Expect a lot of controversy when the older crowd expresses grave
concern about this film, while the younger crowd rallies behind it.
Expect marketing to exploit this generation gap.

Action aside, the movie has an unexpected sense of humour. Some driven
by situations, some driven by characters, some thanks to the POV.
There's not a lot, but what is there is gold - and a relief during all
that action.

The main character, despite never appearing, is able to communicate a
personality. I believe FPSs will steal the ideas presented here. The
circle is complete.

Which brings me to Jimmy (Sharlto Copley)... Can't say much but he's
easily as compelling as the action. His interactions with our hero (the
POV) are not straightforward, and always intriguing. Somehow they form
a bond, which winds up unexpectedly touching. Before the movie Sharlto
said it was the craziest, hardest role he's ever done and it's easy to
see why.

The bad? The overall plot is good but not great. The bad guy, beyond
being powerful and evil, has less character than the POV. Despite some
attempts, women are relegated to lesser roles. (I believe the good far
FAR outweighs the bad)

Russian Hollywood has created the best first person shooter ever made.
When POV becomes the new bullet time, you can thank Hardcore.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is INSANELY awesome!!!

If I could rate it a 20, I would, just from the shear story telling,
character investment and novel first-person POV, not to mention all the
video game tropes, puns, and long shots!!

At least 90% of the movie are long shots, that's how well it was
directed!

It contains a LOT of elements from Counter Strike, Modern Warfare,
Half- Life 2, Portal and Mirrors Edge, so if you like those games, you
should absolutely love this movie!

It has a LOT of gore in it, so I wouldn't recommend it to the
squeamish, but if you're a high-octane true-blooded alpha male like
myself, you should absolutely love it!
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this with no preconceived expectations. I saw the trailer,
it looked interesting, I went.

I wasn't disappointed. Whether this is a commercial hit or a flop, it
will be a cult film forever. It's an instant classic for no other
reason than it's just so damn fun. 

Your best bet to enjoy this movie is to see it as an experience and not
as art. Don't ask questions about characters background or whine when
they don't explain random biker chicks with samurai swords... it just
doesn't matter. I eat ice cream because I like ice cream... I don't
pick through it during dessert.
<|_=00=_|>
I was definitely already a fan of the Biting Elbows music video that
gave rise, but was unprepared for the roller coaster of awesome that
doesn't let up for 90 minutes. I don't know if it was the 98 foot
Frank's FDX screen or just a more attached rig, but some of the action
was shaky and a little hard to follow, especially when Henry would get
moved or tossed around. Without a sense of motion, you can lose your
bearings. Being an avid FPS gamer will really help here. I'd recommend
not filling your vision to the periphery with the screen (like the
front 1/3rd point, where I sat) and choose a middle screen height
position, which will make it more like a computer monitor experience.
That said, I still found it easier to follow then the hand to hand
combat in the early Bourne films, and more enjoyable. The audio is a
blast with a good system, so don't wait until it gets to the crappy 30
seat theaters with the turned down speakers the megaplexes seem to tuck
away in unused corners. 

Sharlto Copley is extremely fun to watch in this film and did a great
job not being the same character in District 9, and Elysium, proving
far far from it (not a fan of Chappie, but he did well in that too).

There are so many oo, ahh, wow, and shock moments in this film. I
really want to see a sequel and would definitely be happy to help fund
it if they go that route again. 

I think I will be seeing this again.

tldr: if you grew up with or are a fan of FPS games, this movie is
amazingly fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Not worth 18 certificate on the grounds of violence, I've seen more
violent movies in my life for almost 58 years(I'm born in 1958 and I'm
watching movies from when I was 3 years old). And I have seen thousands
of films, almost all from 1961 onward and thousands of movies made
before I was born. In terms of action, Hardcore Henry has the highest
level of adrenaline, pure adrenaline, the highest quality. Now I
believe that people, not all of them, only some people, can levitate.
I'm kidding, of course. But everything is so well done in this film,
that it almost seems truthful. The stunts are downright breathless. But
not only. All actors, music, editing, everything. It makes you want to
see it again and again, to understand it and feel better. An
exceptional film, excellent. Ilya Naishuller, I want to work with you!
And, to answer to a guy here on IMDb, concerning the problem he has
with the stupid "dance routine" in the middle, I don't know Ilya
Naishuller but, I'm almost sure that he wanted to pay homage to Stanley
Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange (1971), a film in exactly the same kind, a
masterpiece of the genre, a film about violence and how violence can be
cured. Remember the dance scene of Alex DeLarge (Malcolm McDowell) to
the tune Singin 'in the Rain? Maybe Ilya Naishuller will tell us... 10
out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Why you should definitely go to Hardcore Henry: 1. This is the best
action movie of the year, and probably in general. Remember the
wonderful impressions of the scene in the church in the movie
"Kingsmen"? So here are the impressions almost the entire movie. 2. The
director obviously loves Tarantino, fine jokes, blood abundance and
diversity of murder. sometimes people in the cinema was just
hysterical. 3. Great soundtrack, which brought even a song by Queen. 4.
The plot, though not perfect, but it was much better than expected. 5.
Sharlto Copley rocks. 6. Lots of interesting cameo, even Tim Roth. 7.
The film was made for just $ 2 000 000, and it Exceeds "Adrenaline" and
"Raid". 8. The film was shot in Moscow. Very cool to watch the action
taking place. 9. The film contains a lot of dirty jokes, plenty of
jokes is based on the obscene vocabulary. 10. A number of references to
(and not only) the gaming industry.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say "Look out Quentin Tarantino!" What a crazy ride!
Director/Writer Ilya Naishuller is hardcore and takes shootouts to a
different level. 

I loved the camera movement but it does take some getting used to.
Overall, it was entertaining in a gory way and the splattering of humor
made the gore a little more tolerable.

One scene with the subtitles overlapping (not sure if on purpose) was
interesting and funny because it was a 3-person conversation - whiny
and catty - all talking at the same time. 

If you like Jason Statham and Quentin Tarantino action and shock value,
you will love it!
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a man who is resurrected from the dead by
technology. He is a hybrid of man and technology, and is trained to
kill efficiently.

There is a lot of buzz around "Hardcore Henry" being the first film to
be filmed in a first person perspective. To me, the film looks more
like a video game, because Henry is moves so fast and is so good at
killing. People around him just die so easily. Scenes move very quickly
from one to another, and the location of the story moves very quickly
as well. One second he is on the roof and then the next second he is in
a car. I can hardly keep up with the pace and the story! Towards the
end, I felt dizzy from all the constant motion, and I was lost by the
plot. At least, it was cool to have watched Henry doing daredevil jumps
from one floor to another as if he was walking on grass.
