
What happened in the process of adapting the book to script, filming,
cutting, editing? Did someone get knocked over on the head or did they
just make a decision to kill their own film? In a nutshell: Know that
brilliant, creative, controversial yet elegantly beautiful plot twist
ending we all know and love from the books? Well, here's a cheesy happy
ending. I can just imagine the producers (which happen to be Ron Howard
and Brian Graze of Imagine) sitting in their little office going: Mmm..
that ending is crazy! We can't let that happen! What will the audience
say? We can't make a STATEMENT like that! YOUR AUDIENCE (a large amount
being book readers) are coming to be impressed, to see an interesting
look at overpopulation and Dante's inferno and plague images! I mean,
the fact of the matter is: Overpopulation is a problem and Dan Brown
proposes an elegant solution in the form of a "plague" which PLOT
TWIST: Doesn't actually kill anyone, but makes the 1/3 of the
population (by random) become infertile. It solves the issue without
being genocide. No one dies, yet the problem is solved. Elegant,
brilliant, shocking, and opens up a conversation about a real life
crisis we are facing. Interesting subject relevant to your audience.

Right, okay, at some point they decided to change the ending. Which
means at the end you are still stuck with the question of
overpopulation. The film makers decided to stick with the crowded
scenes. So they constantly showing us that THIS IS A PROBLEM that needs
to be solved. Or at least something to acknowledge. Did they offer an
alternative or did they decide just to stop the bad guy? They decided
to stop the bad guys, not offering even a philosophical comment by
Professor Langdon. The problem is still staring us in the face as
Langdon flirts with W.H.O. director Sinskey and gets his watch back.

You did not give us an ending. You did not give us a tying up of knots.
You gave us a cheesy, cheap, Hollywood ending that blew up in your
face. 

Also lets talk about the casting choices. Or not. Because it sure looks
like they didn't give a crap.

I think the producers got scared. Copped out. Underestimated their
audience. Just bad storytelling really. What a waste of a Friday
evening that was.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine if Spielberg had directed 'Godfather' and Coppola had directed
the Indiana Jones movies. Both great directors, but it wouldn't have
worked.

Same thing applies here. Like the first two in this franchise, 'Da
Vinci Code' and 'Angels and Demons', there's just something terribly
wrong with the direction. Yes, the Langdon movies are suppose to be
fast paced, but if almost no scenes are allowed to breathe, does it
matter? 

And why do director Ron Howard keep on insisting insulting my
intelligence? Like in the first two, many things are explained twice,
so even the dumbest one in the audience knows what's going on.

Then there's the blatant mistake of shooting the movie in standard
widescreen, instead of cinemascope, like the first two. When you make a
movie with several visually looking fantastic locales around the world,
it SCREAMS cinemascope. 

And the best park of the book? They completely changed it. Guess they
wanted to avoid any controversy.

Hans Zimmer's score was great, as usual, though.

The first two Langdon-movies are hovering at 6,6 on IMDb. So will this
when the dust settles.

If the studio decides to make 'Lost Symbol' and - for once - have a
Langdon movie getting great reviews, they should probably hire another
director.
<|_=00=_|>
Dan Brown is one of my favorite writers, maybe Inferno was not his best
book but it was still good enough. i've read it in 2 days , i know a
lot of people that loved it. One of the best things about Inferno was
the ending, and they decided to leave it out of the movie script...

That was a big mistake, that's why i recommend everybody to give the
book a chance even if u tried the movie...

I gave the book 9 stars out of 10. I can only give the movie 4 stars
out of 10. 

I'm sorry they changed the soul of the movie , they tried to make it
more Hollywood and they made a big mistake...

Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
kind of SPOILER... It doesn't matter casting, direction, location,
production, acting and anything if the best part of the book, the
GLORIOUS AND GREAT FINALE that made Dan Brown a genius was changed to
the most common, stupid ending of a silly Hollywood mystery/thriller
movie. It's like if in 'The Empire strikes back', Darth Vader answered:
"yes, I killed your father..." or in 'Seven', Kevin Spacey is caught by
Brad Pitt just in time to save his wife. What the hell were the
producers thinking? They had the chance to make one of the best movies
in 2016 and just wasted it. Too much shame on Ron Howard for being such
a poor director and for Dan Brown for allowing it.
<|_=00=_|>
specially Created my first account to tell Sony what the hell they have
done

Ending was the biggest let down When you expect the movie to actually
show virus being released as compared to the cliché plot of virus being
contained in the last moment , it is disappointing and waste of money
to be let down

Irfan Khan was wasted while Felicity Jones was expressionless

For Book lovers it would definitely be a letdown

Emotion building was missing, and it was too fast paced that made it a
let down.... If you are reading this avoid Inferno...
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the Inferno film for the most part as I'm very fond of Tom
Hanks as Robert Langdon. One of the main reasons that I like these
books so much is because they provide such a wealth of background
historical information so they're a prefect blend of education and
entertainment.

While it was obviously impractical to include an involved literary
discussion of Dante's Inferno in the film, it's a shame that it was
barely touched on at all as to me, it was one of the most interesting
aspects of the entire story. Like many, I was also surprised and
disappointed by the changed ending. The book's solution was challenging
but elegant; the filmclunky and predictable. 

Pity.
<|_=00=_|>
So, Ron Howard, Tom Hanks and Hans Zimmer return for the third movie
adaptation of Dan Brown's bestselling symbolist and iconology
professional, Robert Langdon. Though we seem to be ironically missing,
The Lost Symbol where Langdon tramples over Washington's Masonic
history, which is currently in development but with Howard only sitting
in a producers chair. 

Howard's direction, or the editing seems sloppy and rushed with
noticeable out-of-sync audio. It shows that they struggled with
cramming as much as the butchered novel into the 121min runtime,
missing possible reshoots as some of the performances are really not up
to scratch, namely Sidse Babett Knudsen and Omar Sy. 

Hanks, slips into Langdon mode totally as expected and the delightful
Felicity Jones plays the Bond-girl style sidekick very well as we watch
them try to figure out the same puzzles and twists Langdon is usually
pitted against. It's unfortunate that the more I think about it, the
more silly the elaborate idea becomes. 

There's inconsistencies and obvious inaccuracies with the book and I
wonder how much power Dan Brown had as executive producer. The story
here appears much weaker than the novel, as does some of its
characters, especially the reworking of Irrfan Khan's "Provost". A lot
of the reasonings are just weak and unrealistic which is a shame for
something which could actually happen. 

Zimmer's score is of the recognisable Langdon theme but, it's been
digitised adding a terrible technical feel that might accompany a
espionage thriller. Again, giving me the assumption that the film was
rushed and not the polished film it should have been. 

What's possibly the biggest disappointment of the film is the factual
reality that the story is based on, and as much as we all might like
the previous, popular Brown conspiracies, this story is a real looming
crisis. It lacks the serious impact the book gives of the current
population crisis, the fact that we're nearly 9 billion people on a
planet that can currently only support an estimated 4. 

It fails to question what we should or what would we do in this
situation, which we are actually in and is a serious topic for world
governments, councils and organisations like WHO. Should we actively do
something about population control or let nature take it's natural
course. I don't honestly believe this film has audiences going home and
taking a long hard think about the issue or the implications of viruses
and other methods of population control. The real question being, do we
let people die or save as many as we can to keep mankind from
extinction. 

True to most trilogy tragedies, this is certainly the worse of the
series so far and I'm hoping The Lost Symbol doesn't fall to the same
fate with a rumoured Mark Romanek at the helm. I had low expectations
to begin with and unfortunately it didn't hit the mark. 

Running Time: 6 The Cast: 6 Performance: 6 Direction: 4 Story: 5
Script: 5 Creativity: 7 Soundtrack: 4 Job Description: 3 The Extra
Bonus Points: 0 Would I buy the Bluray?: actually yes, only to be part
of the series. 

46% 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
TL;DR: This movie was good but forgettable. Reading the book beforehand
is a positive here and you will want to go see it, but keep
expectations down and expect a radically altered story with no lasting
impression. If you haven't read the book, prepare to be confused, but
it can still be an entertaining ride.

Edition watched: 2D IMAX 

The largest positive for this movie is Tom Hanks. Hank's role here is a
slight departure from how he previously played the role, due to the
circumstances that are made apparent from the very beginning (but I
won't spoil), and yet he was excellent again as Robert Langdon. Aside
from Hanks, the story was muddled but chase-movie action and constant
changes of beautiful scenery makes this entertaining if forgettable.

I have read the book (and liked it) and I went to see it with 2 people
who had not read it.

For those who haven't read the book, you should know that this is not
like the other 2 Dan Brown movies. Those stories dealt with secrets and
puzzles from many years ago (hundreds or thousands in some cases) and
they had that Indiana Jones for the art history major feel to them. In
this movie, all the puzzles are manufactured by a modern day character
in the story, so it almost completely lacks that Indiana Jones feel.
Even though I had warned my movie companions about this, both were
quite disappointed by this aspect.

However, the biggest problem my non-book reading movie companions had
was confusion. As someone who knew what was going on, even I felt the
way they injected some story elements and then dropped them just as
fast was a bit dizzying. Given that this movie was adapted for the
screen and had radically altered elements from the book, the handling
of the story telling was sub par.

Both of my movie companions felt the movie was entertaining but nothing
special. One sentence opinion: "It was OK and I enjoyed it." and "It
was OK, let's go eat." 

For those who have read the book, in my opinion this movie departs
radically from the source material. That said, reading the book is an
advantage and might be a compelling reason to go see this. Knowing the
book-story means you will know what is going on, even through elements
that were not in the book and/or were presented poorly (e.g. skin
rash). I found the changes made for a better experience since I wasn't
just seeing a rehash of what I had read. That said, among several
disappointments, I was looking forward to a Vasari Corridor scene and I
was very much let down.

One thing to note, Dan Brown's message was pretty much lost and I
wonder if that was intentional? Even the ending, which in the book was
used to punctuate Dan Brown's obvious point, is radically changed in
the movie. So while the basic story is similar, the actual take away I
left the theater with was very different from the book. I mark this as
negative because the book made me think about what I had taken for a
given, the movie simply entertained me and went away afterwards.

Overall, as someone who read the book, I enjoyed the movie but did feel
let down.
<|_=00=_|>
I never did read the Dan Brown books and solely went to see this movie
with the previous two movies as background. What a disappointment!

The movie starts with Robert Langdon having flashbacks and weird
visions. By itself nothing out of the ordinary weren't it for the
tedious assembly. In stead of getting people invested in what is
happening with the professor, you just get white flashes alternated
with some scenes that do intrigue until they give those again a generic
filter you can even make yourself in Windows Movie Maker.

When the movie eventually gets into the story it's rushing from one
place to the next. If this was an ordinary action movie that would be
acceptable, but absolutely not in a Dan Brown movie. The attractive
part of Langdon is the puzzle solving, the adventure, the mysteries.
Not someone who says:"Let's go trough this door. I know it is there
because I read it in a book."

The ending is the worst of the whole movie. Again, a lot of action, but
that is not what the Dan Brown-series is about. I heard that in the
book the ending is totally different and I really wonder why they
changed it, but this is a review of a movie and not from the book. So,
I have to give the ending the fame of one of the worst endings of 2016
for me. No puzzle, no big reveal, just some action.

Overall if you like Langdon and you wished for something like Angels &
Demons without the riddles and with even more action than you are at
the right place, but that's absolutely not what I wanted or expected
from this movie. I wish I could go back to the static, immersive
Langdon from The Da Vinci Code who paused here and there and where the
history and the characters intrigued him and me.
<|_=00=_|>
This review is from the perspective of someone who hasn't read the book
but still knows his/her movies.

The movie's start is very confusing at first, where Robert Langdon has
some visions but they don't really seem necessary and so it takes quite
some time to establish the plot. It lacks the inclusion of Renaissance
artists' work or a history lesson here or there, they are there, with
the main focus on Dante, however it's still not as much as compared to
the previous 2 movies, which just made them so much more interesting.

There a couple of plot twists in the movie but nothing that might throw
you off your seat or make the movie more interesting.

Hans Zimmer's background score felt under par compared to the beautiful
scores and themes he has given for The Da Vinci Code and Angels and
Demons and countless other movies.

Another thing that I felt lacking was a final turn in the end, like a
final nail in the coffin, like the previous 2 movies had.

Overall, I don't know about Dan Brown's novel, but the writing of the
script was not up to the mark.
