
I was lucky enough to see an advanced screening for this film. I had a
toss up between two films to see and I chose this one based on the
trailer and generally positive reviews (who likes to waste their time
with bad movies). 

Wow.

This is one of those rare feats in filmmaking. The cinematography is
great, but see this for the acting and the story. Not often has a movie
made me cry, laugh, and shout out (aloud mind you) during the films run
time. I don't want to spoil much of the story as it becomes obvious
early on, what is actually going on. The magnificence of this film is
in how the director was able to tackle the difficult subject matter in
a way that doesn't leave you feeling like you saw an average
thriller/horror movie, but really out it in perspective of the child,
which I believe had a humanistic approach. It was amazing. Best movie
of 2015, by a long shot and they're were great movies this year. (Im
looking at you exmachina) 

Not only I, but I feel absolutely everyone who left the theater left a
better person for what they witnessed. Not often do I come out of the
theater with people being more polite than they were upon entering.
THAT is the power this movie has, I emerged myself in the experience
and I'm glad I did, because "No one is strong alone", certainly not I,
and I have a more profound idea of appreciation of my own life and
existence til death. I will continue on my quest but I know that I will
never forget this landmark film, what it taught me, and how it humbled
everyone in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
At the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival the film "ROOM" won the
People's Choice Award today. It tells a story of a young woman and her
five year old son who have been held in captivity in a confined and
windowless living space for six years. Brie Larson stars as Ma and her
son named Jack is played by Jacob Tremblay who is so believable that
you will feel empathetic towards their captivity but relief as to how
Ma convinces Jack that their little world is real and is wonderful. 

As Jack grows he starts to ask questions about their isolated lifestyle
and we the audience anticipate that Ma must try and escape with young
Jack but how?

The story draws similarities to the actual events that were Jaycee Lee
Dugard's true life story which occurred on June 10, 1991, in South Lake
Tahoe, California. Dugard was 11 years old at the time she was abducted
from a street while she was walking from home to a school bus stop and
she was held captive for the next 18 years in a concealed back yard in
a make shift shed. There is also some resemblance to the kidnapping of
Amanda Berry who had a child fathered by her kidnapper Ariel Castro.
This film was titled Cleveland Abduction and it was released in 2015.
It tells the true story of three girls who were held captive for over
10 years by Ariel Castro in his home with no one aware how close the
girls were to their own homes and families.

The film Room focuses more on Jack and Ma's awkward adjustment to life
outside of their room which was their entire world for the past six
years. There is a strong supporting cast including performances such as
Joan Allen's role as Jack's loving Grandma and the ever convincing
all-star William H Macy as a resistant Grandpa who is having difficulty
accepting that his daughter is raising her rapist's son. 

There are some scenes that are so heartwarming that it will be
difficult not to find yourself becoming emotionally involved. In one
particular very touching and loving scene, Jack asks his Grandma to cut
his long hair so that the strength that he thinks that his shoulder
length hair possesses can be transferred over to his sick Ma so she can
return home from the hospital. Jack who understandably is initially
withdrawn from anyone other than his Ma simply tells his Grandma after
she washes and cuts his hair that he loves her. This loving scene
between Jack and his Grandma will stay with me forever. 

Jack and Ma's is a story of isolation, fear, hopelessness versus hope
and most importantly a film about redemption and the family bond. Room
is deserving of an Oscar nomination for best picture and nominations in
a few other categories as well such as best actress, best actor and
best director. I give the film a 9.5 out of 10 rating. This film is
terrific!!
<|_=00=_|>
I know one thing, I will never, ever forget this heartrending,
unbelievably-acted 'movie' for the rest of my days. I'm just at a loss
for words and struggling to describe how truly powerful and
heart-grabbing this story was. I'll go so far as to say that if you
don't cry, shed a tear, or feel the urge to weep profusely after (or
while) watching Room, you don't have a heart. The mother (Brie Larson)
and her son (Jacob Tremblay, 9 years old!) carry this entire movie. The
beauty of Room is in its bare rawness, realness and universally
relatable nature. What can I say? It tapped into something deep, deep,
deep within me and just ripped my heart to shreds and had me in tears;
sometimes tears of sadness, and other times tears of heavenly joy. It
made me smile at times and even laugh. But most of all, it always had
my eyes glued to the screen and my soul enthralled by what I was
witnessing. This is one of the best, truly real stories ever told and
one of the best uses of cinema I've ever seen. ...Try not to read
much/anything about it before going in to see it (and yes, definitely
catch it in a theater near you ASAP). Go in and be engrossed and moved
(in ways I can't describe) by this experience. 10/10 *Hands down* the
best film of 2015, and the single best thing I've seen in years. :')
<|_=00=_|>
Room is a harrowing thriller, but not in the traditional sense of the
word. It deals with a dark subject matter and the first half of the
film can be quite disturbing. Yet director Lenny Abrahamson (Frank) has
adapted the best-selling novel with grace and grandeur. Here is a film
so artistically unique and deviant, chock full of genuine emotion
thanks to two outstanding performances, that isn't afraid to take risks
and surprise at every turn.

Based on the novel by Emma Donoghue, Room introduces us to Ma and Jack,
a mother and son held captive in a garden shed. As we learn more about
their captivity, their world becomes clearer and clearer to us. They
live by a routine, have names for every object in room, and Ma must be
careful as her son grows older and more curious.

The film is structured into two halves, and by now it's no spoiler that
the second half deals with their readjustment into the outside world,
and Jack's first time outside of room. The film is thematically
complex, yet never overwhelming. At its core it's about motherhood, but
Jack's unique upbringing complicates things.

Director Lenny Abrahamson is no stranger to the strange, and with Room
he's made a masterpiece of filmmaking. The entire idea of 'room,' the
abstract concept of space, is ever-present in the production. In their
bubble of room, Ma and Jack are restricted, as evident by Abrahamson's
close angles and tight shots. The small space allows for high concept
filmmaking, and when they get out of room, it only gets better, with a
new color palette and experimental camera angles through Jack's eyes.
The entire film is seen through the eyes of this child, and it's
genius. What I loved about the book was its focus on Jack and how he
adjusts to seeing this new world for the first time, and the movie
never loses sight of that.

I wrote about the pressure placed on child actors in my review for the
incredible Beasts of No Nation, and Jacob Tremblay fits like a glove.
Like Abraham Attah, he isn't a child actor, but an actor who just
happens to be of a younger age. His wide eyes and expressive thoughts
are very believable, and when he sees the outside world for the first
time, it's a thing of beauty. Tremblay has brilliant chemistry with
Brie Larson, and for one second I never doubted her devotion to him. As
Ma faces frustrating upon leaving room, from her parents, doctors, and
the media, she never forgets her son Jack, and always puts his
wellbeing first. Larson taps into this character, one that undergoes a
stunning transformation as she basically lost seven years of her life
being locked up. Her performance will blow you away.

The best actors are the ones able to transport you into their
characters' own universes, no matter how isolated from society they
happen to be. Larson, Tremblay, and Joan Allen all have a tremendous
range of emotional ability and are able to sell you on their story not
just for two hours, but for an entire lifetime. With Room, Abrahamson
goes the extra mile with his direction, and director of photography
Danny Cohen keeps all eyes on Jack. The film asks us to examine how we
view the world and how this viewpoint is shaped by our nurtured
upbringing. The result is a breathtaking experience brought to life,
one you won't soon forget.
<|_=00=_|>
*Insert all 9 & 10 reviews here* I was in awe during the entire film.
Lenny Abrahamson & the writing team made sure there was not one dull
moment. The addition of "insignificant" characters and plot twists are
later realized to be so significant and influential in keeping the film
alive throughout its duration. It was the little things that made this
story one of the best I've seen in a long time. I experienced an entire
palette of emotions all at once and was left in a deep level of
curiosity and reflection. Very few films have the power to continue to
influence its audience after the credits. Room is endless in the most
beautiful way.
<|_=00=_|>
Room (2015/I) was directed by Lenny Abrahamson. It stars Jacob Tremblay
as Jack and Brie Larson as his mother ("Ma")

The situation becomes very clear early in the film. Jack and his mother
are held captive by a man who has kidnapped her, raped her, impregnated
her, and uses her as his sexual slave. Jack and his mother have lived
in a small, locked shed, which they call "Room." Jack's mother has
lived in "Room" since she was abducted seven years earlier. Jack has
lived there for all of his life--five years.

By incredible ingenuity, motivated by love, Ma has kept Jack from
realizing the horrors of their situation. It's hard to believe that
anyone could be so motivated and capable, allowing the boy to believe
that his situation is normal, but it works in the film and you accept
it.

What happens next is pretty well known, but I won't go into it because
it might decrease your enjoyment of the movie. It's dramatic,
frightening, and, heart-wrenching, all at the same time.

Brie Larson does a wonderful job as the mother, and Jacob Tremblay has
to be the best child actor we have. He is absolutely brilliant.
Director Abrahamson must be an extremely talented man to draw two such
great performances from his actors.

This is a must-see film, but it's not easy to watch. Even though Room
wasn't based on any specific incident, we all know of cases of warped
men who have kidnapped and enslaved women. It's hard to think about the
lives of those women without becoming depressed. 

We saw the film at the excellent Little Theatre in Rochester, NY. Given
the claustrophobic atmosphere of the movie, it will work on the small
screen as well. Seek it out and watch, but prepare yourself mentally
before you begin.
<|_=00=_|>
Lenny Abrahamson's Room opens in a 10 x 10 room that has no windows, a
locked door, and no light other than that provided by an overhead
skylight. Jack (Jacob Tremblay), a slight five-year old boy with hair
down to his shoulders wakes up each morning as he has all his life,
saying hello to his world. He says hello, not to the sun or the grass
outside his front door where he can run and laugh and play but only to
the objects which is all his world consists of: the lamp, the sink, the
plant, the refrigerator. His only friend is a mouse that he feeds with
some pleasure.

Not that he lacks for companionship. Ma (Brie Larson) is with him and
their endless days consist of cooking, reading, and watching TV where
Jack is told that what he sees on the screen is not real, only pretend.
All he knows of the world is what he sees in front of his eyes. Old
Nick (Sean Bridgers) brings food and other household items but when he
comes, Jack has to hide in his wardrobe, out of sight. Ma, we find out,
has been kept prisoner and used for sex by the hulking man who comes
every night and we know that Jack is a result of his mother's rape.
Jack is the focus of the film and we see everything from his point of
view, with the help of his sometime narration but we can also get into
his mother's mind and feel her pain and live her dreams.

There is never any doubt of his mother's love though the obvious strain
of keeping herself from crying out every minute is painfully obvious.
To Jack, she is the center of his world and his reason for being. When
the second half of the film takes a surprising turn and shifts 180
degrees, Jack and Ma are not prepared for what awaits them. Even when
an alternative is suggested as possible, he doesn't want to hear
anything about a different world with blue sky and rivers and trees.
Room is a tense and compelling film in which Brie Larson more than
fulfills the brilliance that she showed in Short Term 12 and should
make her an Oscar contender. Tremblay is also superb.

He lives his character and makes him come alive, even though he is only
nine years old. Supporting roles by Joan Allen and William H. Macy also
contribute to the film's second half but it is always Larson and
Tremblay that carry the day. The film is not mawkish or sentimental
even though the soaring score by Stephen Rennicks comes close. While
there are has some plot implausibilities, the film is a tribute to the
resiliency and the dedicated love of a parent for their child. It is
also a teaching experience. Like many who are walled off from each
other and think the box they are in is all there is, the film can give
us the combination to open the locked door, if we take the risk to turn
the key.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the haters or those that want to chip away at the
overall brilliance of 'Room'. What film doesn't have small flaws, they
pale into insignificance during the 2 hours of continuous emotional
maelstrom that follows. This film wrings every last drop of emotion and
drama out of the allotted playtime. Make no mistake, despite short
bursts of touching serenity, this films starts up full throttle and
doesn't let-up. I can only assume reviewers here scoring this film 8 or
less must be Vulcan by birth, or just terminally insensitive. This is a
first rate drama with stand out performances all round. Especially from
the child protagonist. 

**Warning** If you have trouble viewing emotionally charged material of
a sensitive nature about abuse. You would be well advised not to view
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Room" is an adaption of an internationally best-seller novel written
by Irish playwright and novelist, Emma Donoghue. This is her first book
to be adapted into a major motion picture and I have to say that it is
a rather impressive one. I have not read Emma's novel yet, but I can
only guess that this movie sticks to the novel's roots, considering
that Emma decided to write the screenplay herself. Room is a story
about a women who was kidnapped during her high school years and locked
in a shed for 7 years. She was impregnated by her kidnapper in this
room and was locked inside with the child. The child grows up and
around the age of five is when the movie picks up. Throughout this
entire movie we are taken through this story strictly from the Jack's
(the child) point of view. Even though this story is experienced
through the lens of this child, the story is in no way filtered or
gussied up. It is this intimate and raw story about a child and his
mother spending a hugely relevant portion of their existence stuck in
this dull, dirty and claustrophobia-inducing shed. This shed contained
one small window that emits a tiny portion of daylight into the room.
To me, this represented a light at the end of the tunnel. Sort of like
a tiny glimmer of hope in a deep and dark abyss. Throughout this entire
movie, Jack narrates his experiences as he embarks upon the world.
Jacob Trembley portrays this character with such a sense of wonder and
innocence that every single narration that I hear from this boy is just
heartbreaking. Every time Jack takes away something from the world, he
takes it in as something new and exciting even if it is scary. They are
things that everyone takes for granted everyday: trees, dogs, the sky,
etc. You would think that the dramatic climax would be at the beginning
when Jack gets out of the tiny room he has been locked in his entire
life, but after-wards, this film just drags in one dramatic scene after
another in a way that turns this film into one big heartache an
experience. I do have say that Jacob Trembley and Allison Brie's
performances carry a lot of the weight of this film. Allison gives a
very natural and organic performance. You never catch her overacting or
being too stiff during any scene in this movie. Jack Trembley gave one
of the most, if not the most, impressive performances of the year. Not
just because of his age, but because of how well of a dramatic
performance that he gives without over or underacting in any of his
scenes. He seemed to take his role with a very adult-like seriousness
that translated into a lot of the movie's themes of innocence that are
chased by the persistent and harsh reality that Jack and his mother are
facing. The directing and cinematography in this film are beautiful.
The film's intense theme is complimented with a variety of out-of-
focus and close up shots that highlight the child's immediate
consciousness as he takes the outside world with fresh- eyes. Many of
the scenes are also complimented by a beautiful and breathtaking film
score composed by the award-winning Stephen Rennicks who has been
crafting soundtracks in the indie film world since 1997. Overall, this
is a film that I won't be forgetting for the rest of my life. Mainly
because it is a film about escaping outside of the room that you have
been stuck in your whole life and discovering a world that has been
hidden from you. I know that sounds kind of cheesy but this film does
it in the most grounded and intense way possible. Not to mention that
it is dosed with themes of abandonment, human-kindness, and media
exploitation. I don't usually give films a 10/10. As a matter of fact,
I could probably count the films this year that I do consider 10s on
one hand. The films I consider perfect are life changing in some way or
benchmarks in cinematic history. While this film will probably be
washed away by the ever expanding ocean that is cinema, it is not a
movie that I will be personally ever forgetting. I can't remember
watching a film that made me feel so grateful for just being alive.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the novel of the same name by Emma Donoghue, 'Room' is a
challenging, unsettling, harrowing film, that leaves you disturbed. But
that is its sheer power. The Incredible Performances only add to the
film's hefty nature.

'Room' Synopsis: After five-year-old Jack and his mother escape from
the enclosed surroundings that Jack has known his entire life, the boy
makes a thrilling discovery: the outside world.

'Room' is a disturbing story about bad things that happen to good
people. But its also about hope & fighting back. Its shocking to see
the protagonist, a child, discover the world along-with his brave
mother, who survived a harrowing experience. I was engrossed & often
disturbed by the narrative, especially after the son & mother escape.
The series of events that follow are so gut-wrenching, I almost broke
down.

'Room' is masterfully penned by Emma Donoghue herself. The Writing is
consistently powerful & the dialogue are realistic to the core. Lenny
Abrahamson's Direction is first-class. He has handled this dramatic,
unsettling tale with complete flourish. Cinematography is perfectly
claustrophobic. Editing is razor-crisp. Art Design is skilfully done.

Performance-Wise: Brie Larson & Jacob Tremblay deliver incredible
performances. Brie is astounding as the tormented, yet brave
protagonist, while Jacob steals the show with a flawless performance.
The child does wonders & makes 'Room' unforgettable. Of the supporting
cast, Joan Allen & The Always Solid William H. Macy leave a solid mark.

On the whole, 'Room' is a must watch! Its certainly unsettling, but its
power is undeniable.
