
Nowadays, you don't connect comedy and Iran in the same sentence, but
in "Jimmy Vestvood, Amerikan Hero", it's more than permissible - it's
necessary. It's a very funny comedy in a contemporary landscape of
juvenile attempts at humor which appeal to the audiences lower
instincts. This picture, on the other hand, is genuinely funny via a
clever screenplay. It capitalizes on its characters naivete and lack of
background in the English language and American customs, resulting in
several very funny exchanges between Iranians vs. Americans and, in
some cases, Iranians vs. Iranians. In truth, the humor is uneven, but
it is tough to maintain a high level of humor throughout a full length
feature. But "Jimmy Vestvood" tries.

A quick summary; Our hero wins a lottery and comes to America with his
mother. He wants to be a Private Eye like his idol, Steve McQueen, but
is quickly mistaken for a jihadist. Meanwhile, he is hired by a U.S.
Senator as a bagman for a payoff to an enemy agent for weapons to a
foreign country to start a war. Got it so far? Doesn't matter -
confusion is part of the fun, so just go with our hero (Maz Jobrani),
who is brilliantly funny in a way that Sasha Baron Cohen ("Borat")
tries to be. Jobrani, however, succeeds and is funnier. Sound like a
good movie? Too bad, it's already gone from the NYC area. It deserved a
better fate as it's the best comedy I've seen so far this year, better
than "The Nice Guys".
<|_=00=_|>
Slightly reminded me of Borat movies,but with more class and no gross
acts... Which makes this OK for kids too.

I am not Iranian,but I really enjoyed this movie. I think the fact I
have some Iranian friends did help to make this movie funnier as I knew
a lot about Iranian families. 

The joke about chandeliers was one of them :) 

There are a lot of gross and not funny comedies these days and this
movie was a breath of fresh air. I wish they will make more! All actors
were funny and did a good job playing their roles. 

A solid 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this thinking it'd be a waste of time or a Borat rip-off or a
boring stereotypical attempt at comedy. Well, okay... it was
stereotypical, but not in a bad way. AND it was pretty funny. Not that
many "Middle Eastern" jokes--only enough so you don't forget the
character is a new arrival in the US and not completely in tune with
American society. I hadn't heard of Maz Jobrani before this; I saw him
in The Interpreter but evidently he didn't make that much of an
impression. In this movie, as the star, he was great. Just the right
amount of slapstick and just the right amount of naivete. The back
stories were pretty good, didn't detract from the movie at all, and
actually helped give insight into the main character (as much as you
can expect in a comedy). This ain't Caddyshack, Young Frankenstein, or
The Big Lebowski--but it was good fun and PG-13.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a sort of propaganda movie used for political reasons. This movie
reminds of the 70s till 90s' ones which depicted USSR as a demonic
country. These kinds of movies represent US foreign policy towards
hostile countries such as Iran. A quick summary; Our hero wins a
lottery and comes to America with his mother. He wants to be a Private
Eye like his idol, Steve McQueen, but is quickly mistaken for a
jihadist. Meanwhile, he is hired by a U.S. Senator as a bait for a
payoff to an enemy agent for weapons to a foreign country to start a
war. Got it so far? Doesn't matter - confusion is part of the fun, so
just go with our hero (Maz Jobrani), who is brilliantly funny in a way
that Sasha Baron Cohen ("Borat") tries to be. Jobrani, however,
succeeds and is funnier. Sound like a good movie? Too bad, it's already
gone from the NYC area. It's a stupid way of depicting great
civilization through trivial means.
