
It's a letdown. The fun and charming bits of Harry Potter were left out
of this film. I like J.K. Rowling's work immensely, so that's hard to
say.

Plot-wise, things are a mess. Newt and his luggage full of magical
creatures are a side plot to the important things going on. The real
story is that an auror in New York is searching for a powerful and
dangerous magical force that manifests within a teenager. His plan:
turn the destructive energy the teenager carries into a weapon, I
assume. Enter Newt Scamander, who is trying to transport a
thunderbird(?) to Arizona for release back into the wild. Some of
Newt's other creatures escape in New York, and he has to round them up,
all while becoming entangled with the auror and his teenage target.

The plot sounds sort of okay, but it's not well integrated. The
characters don't add up to much of anything, either. The sidekick baker
is fairly likable, though, along with his brewing romance with Queenie.
Newt's a bit thin as a character. Eddie Redmayne's dialog also tended
to come out mumbled, which made him hard to understand at times. Throw
in a few acronyms and oddball words like MACUSA, and that makes for
more confusion.

Altogether, the film needed more work to tighten the story lines and
make Fantastic Beasts a story focused on Newt and his menagerie,
instead of what we ended up with.
<|_=00=_|>
I really want to draw attention to the title of the review above. I'm
sure many die-hard potterheads would want every review on this site to
score this movie 10/10 and say it is a masterpiece. Well I can't do
that, since that isn't my honest opinion. What I can say though is that
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is a thoroughly entertaining
affair that is well worth a watch, especially if you're a fan of J.K.
Rowling's magical world. 

For starters the cast was great. Eddie Redmayne feels perfectly cast in
main role as Newt Scamander. A very awkward and introverted person who
prefers the company of animals rather than humans. He has the
quirkyness down to a tee. I also really liked the muggle (or no-maj as
the Americans call him) played by Dan Fogler. How he reacts to the
whole wizarding world and the events that happen around him is actually
really funny. I also thought Katherine Waterstone and Alison Sodul did
great playing two sisters who wind up roped in to the whole adventure. 

The creatures are the best part of the entire movie by far. They CGI on
them looks kind of fake, but it's more than made up for by the concepts
alone. Almost all of them have some clever twerk that keep them from
feeling generic and they're all filled with personality. The sequences
when they're catching these creatures are all really fun to watch. 

However there are some problems with this movie. For one it has way too
many side characters. A lot of them feel completely underdeveloped and
add basically nothing to the overall story (*cough* Jon Voight
*cough*). There's also a magical threat that becomes more central
towards the end but it honestly kind of left me scratching my head. I
just wasn't that engaged in that part of the story to be honest. 

Still these problems are not enough to ruin the movie by any means.
It's filled with wonder and creativity and being back in the world of
witchcraft and wizardry is worth the price of admission alone. I
enjoyed the characters, the humour and the creatures a whole lot. I
also want to give J.K. Rowling huge credit for not just rehashing the
Harry Potter story again. This is fresh and new and while it isn't
flawless by any means it's certainly entertaining!
<|_=00=_|>
It is unbelievable that JK Rowling's name is even attached to this
film.

The discipline and thought that went into the Harry Potter characters
and story certainly wasn't applied to this catastrophe, which, like the
Hobbit and so many other Hollywood regurgitation(s), merely seeks
massive profits by piggybacking on a successful franchise while being
utterly devoid of substance.

It isn't even worth going into detail. There is only one truly likable
character, though you can't relate to ANY character as we know
absolutely nothing about them, nor do they have any developed
relationships with each other. 

The entire script is built around the magical creatures doing damage to
NYC, again, a ridiculous premise, as the damage is massive and there is
no backlash. The complicated boundaries between the magical and
non-magical worlds and people, so well laid out in HP, are completely
absent. The most ridiculous example of idiotic, careless detail is that
for most of the scenes on the streets of NYC, it is practically a ghost
town, whereas in reality, NYC in the 1920s was nearly as densely
populated as it is now. Perhaps more so, not worth it to fact check
this. 

And Eddie Redmayne as the lead was totally inaccessible, not engaging
and half of his speech literally unintelligible. Fully one third into
the movie it is finally established that he, the lead character, is
closer to magical creatures than humans, but by then, not only do we
not care about him or like him, but really the script gives him not ONE
real relationship wherein to show forth his character. Who is he? Where
does he come from? We don't know. Anyway, a horrible choice for a lead
character, someone who has no emotional connection to any characters.
Even his relations to the animals is explored surface level, there is
no one relationship with anyone or anything that develops throughout
the story and makes the audience care about the character. Only
superficial plot-related details are given and there is no emotional or
human life at all.

This is the same way all the characters, every single one, is treated.
They are merely 2 dimensional props, there to perpetuate a plot that is
mostly centered around special effects and hubris action, magical
creatures rampaging here and there, and, as I said, unrealistically,
going on undetected.

Literally, not one shining point to this film. Another disgrace to
storytelling, devoid of all substance and creativity, pumped out of the
Warner Bros fecal-making factory. Utterly disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
David Yates has done it again - what a terrible movie. Boring from
beginning to end. J.K. Rowling just wasn't able to write a script that
could live up to the Harry Potter books and universe. Fantastic? Not so
much. Beasts? Sure, lots of them, but uninteresting. Where to find
them? All inside a magical bag. There's absolutely no character
development: we get to know very little about Newt Scamander, his
personal quest, his thoughts or what drives him; Tina is just bland;
and Kowalski is a comic relief that just wasn't necessary. Throughout
the movie, you never understand why Newt has a "Noah complex" or why he
was driven to build his own Ark of magical creatures; there's no
tension, no drama involved - muggles don't know about those creatures,
so they can't hate them or understand how dangerous they might be, and
wizards just don't seem to care enough about them. Why exactly was Newt
expelled from Hogwarts? What exactly was his relation to Leta
Lestrange? We just don't know. Graves was an interesting character, but
very poorly developed. Sure, he is revealed to be something more and we
couldn't know too much, but we never get to understand the context in
which he professes his ideology. For a movie that revolves around
magic, there's actually not that much magic being used during the
movie. Maybe next time they should try a movie with less special
effects and a little bit more acting. The Harry Potter books were
always about the narrative - well written, enticing, thrilling, focused
on big existential issues, such as death, the quest for immortality,
friendship. This movie was about the visual power of cinema, and that
just isn't enough. Besides, a whole generation grew up with Harry
Potter, a generation that actually "grew up", so a PG movie won't work.
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to take another plunge into the wizarding world of J.K.
Rowling. I greatly enjoyed the Harry Potter (HP) books and, despite
some flaws, the HP movies.

Prior to viewing, I looked at the other pre-release reviews to
determine a critic consensus and despite some minor negative feedback,
the majority seemed to love this movie. I am very disappointed. This
movie was terrible. Analysing any aspect of each scene reveals just too
many errors in transition or logic for me to truly enjoy this film.
Sadly, I felt so disconnected by its lack of realistic behaviour and
logic I spent much of my time discovering more faults, such is the
nature when you do not enjoy a movie.

The core story-line falls flat when compared to any HP book or movie.
It lacks character and often does not make sense. Some characters are
posted as the self redemption seekers and yet continually choose,
knowing well the consequences, morally evil decisions. Other central
characters can't seem to make any decision themselves, paralyzed by
lack of reasoning. I get it, these people are witches and wizards and
thus eccentric takes on non-magics. This idea was taken a step too far
in this movie. America felt like it was being run by about 20 buffoons
while the main characters waltz around fragrantly discharging their own
laws.

Do not expect to see any magnificent, fantastical creatures here
either. In every case the extent of the imagination was to take 2-4
animals in our world, smash them together and voila. Even with such a
simple formula, you can count the number of creatures you see on both
hands. To top that off, the CGI was bested by the first Harry Potter,
again it seemed to be rushed to final production without a true
critical eye.

I was sorely disappointed with this film. If not for the HP stamp I
feel it would barely review as a B-grade movie, charging blockbuster
prices. That HP stamp though will likely bump it higher, but please
keep your critique realistic lest we cop the same treatment in the
probable sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps the biggest dilemma you will have before going into this, is
whether or not it will live up to the legend of Harry Potter. As
someone who loved the series and was skeptical about Yates undertaking
this endeavor, I am pleased to say that I'm relieved, As Yates delivers
a refreshing and whimsical film. Sure, it doesn't have the characters
we've come to love, but with the creatures you encounter and with the
added humor of J.K Rowling, you will come to grip with the fact that
this movie will leave an impression.

Newt is a scientist who has an uncanny resemblance to Doctor Who, as
his strange and cunning outlook bares the trademarks of the epic
character. Newt is searching for unorthodox creatures. As he stuffs
them into his suitcase which is an accident waiting to happen. The
suitcase seems to be unhinged and dire need of a proper lock. As he
arrives in New York he mixes his bag with Jacob Kowalski, who lets
loose beasts that start to run rampant in the streets. J.K. Rowling's
first outing as a screenwriter is a wild success, with her keen eye for
detail and whimsical taste. "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them"
becomes a fine addition to her epic saga. I'm glad that there are four
more awaiting us because if Rowling proved anything, it's that she has
a lot more to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic beasts and where you find them. Well Not somewhere
interesting. In fact, some place that is pretty scattered and
incoherent, and very much boring.

What is this film actually about: a. A story of a muggle who happens to
get a glimpse of a magic world? b. Of a journalist who tries to
preserve the variety of magic animals? c. An auror, who lost her job
and tries to claw her way back? d. An unhappy kid who possesses the
most destructive powers? e. "The bad guy" with a very sinister, however
just as much unclear agenda, in the face of Johnny Depp who makes a 30
second jaw-dropping appearance as a blond?

This film has no story, no core. You know, where you can trace a
dramatic structure: some kind of problem, rise, climax and ultimately
some kind of solution. 

I, as HUGE fan of JK Rowling, am very disappointed to have witnessed
this cinematographic cacophony. Not even Eddy Redmayne or IMAX
experience could save it for me.
<|_=00=_|>
The magical community in Britain has been fleshed out rather well
through the seven Harry Potter books and the eight films that followed,
but America's magic users have been pretty much overlooked.

Until now.

The year is 1926. In the midst of the dark wizard Grindelwald wreaking
havoc in Europe, an unassuming man travels to New York City with a case
full of, well, fantastic beasts ( a case which goes full TARDIS, as
well). 

There's also an unknown magical threat tearing up streets and striking
fear in the hearts of the nomaj (non-magical, US term for muggle)
community. The Magical Congress of the United States is searching for
the culprit, and who do they blame? The unassuming man, Newt Scamander,
a role that Eddie Redmayne fits into perfectly.

With the help of Tina Goldstein, a disgraced Auror, and Jacob Kowalski,
a nomaj who gets caught up in Scamander's creature exploits, they must
clear Scamander's name and find out who is behind the attacks in New
York and stop them.

This film has a lot going for it, but it really holds up as an
installment of the Harry Potter franchise in the way that it showcases
the allure of the universe without the old story of The Boy Who Lived.
It is also buoyed by great visual effects and witty banter throughout.

This will prove to be just the first of possibly many films in the
Harry Potter universe (and yes, Johnny Depp does show up as
Grindelwald), and if this film is any indicator of the wonder this
universe instills, I can't wait for more.
<|_=00=_|>
I admit walking into the theater, I was very excited but also a little
apprehensive. I should not have worried at all though, Fantastic Beasts
and Where to Find Them was incredibly enjoyable! Rowling's magical
world is as alluring and fun as ever! For me, the best thing about this
movie is exactly that. Exploring this world.

In the Harry Potter saga, with the exception of Deathly Hallows, most
of the action was confined in Hogwarts. When we were taken out of the
school, the main characters, being underage, were not allowed to do
magic. The novelty in this movie is that we get to follow a fully
fledged adult wizard in an entirely new environment and observe the
dynamics and workings of the magical society.

Said wizard is Newt Scamander, a magical zoologist that traveled the
world in order to find and document rare creatures, which he carries in
his magical suitcase. When this suitcase gets mixed up with one that
belongs to muggle Jacob, some of Newt's creatures escape and cause
problems in New York.

Eddie Redmayne shines in this movie. He plays a very clearly British,
endearing and slightly awkward Newt, but the character's kindness is
obvious by the loving and friendly way that he treats his magical
creatures. Dan Fogler does a great job as Jacob Kowalski, the muggle
who is suddenly thrown into a world of wonder that existed beside him
all along. He is the one the audience can best relate to, since he
mirrors our sense of marvel. Katherine Waterstone and Alison Sudol also
do a good job as the two vastly different magical sisters, who aid Newt
in his adventure. If I had a small gripe, it would be that the
excellent Colin Farell was in my opinion under used.

All in all, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is a solid and
visually stunning movie that manages to achieve three things.

First, although it takes place in the Harry Potter universe, it stands
apart and has its very own story, which can be enjoyed separately from
that of the famous young wizard. Second, it drops quite a few hints and
names, which not only tie in nicely with the stories that we know, but
also serve to set up the next installments, which are rumored to
document Dumbledore's past and connection with Grindelwald. Finally,
the movie features a bustling 1926 New York, which coupled with the
intriguing character dynamics, offers a brand new insight into Rowling
magical world and leaves us poor muggles asking for more.

After following Harry's adventures, many of us were left wanting to see
much more of the story and luckily for us, it seems Rowling has that
much more to offer. Personally, I can't wait for the next movie, great
job!
<|_=00=_|>
Although I was a fan of the Harry Potter series, I had no preconceived
notions or requirements for this stand-alone movie, other than an
expectation that J.K. Rowling would not disappoint.

Nonetheless, I was disappointed. The first half of the movie is
basically an overlong visit to a CGI-created zoo. We watch as the
protagonist hunts down a half dozen or so "fantastic beasts", mostly
one at a time and in extended chase sequences. If you do not enjoy
visiting zoos or watching car chases (which have the same dynamic as
animal chases, no matter how exotic the species), you may be bored. I
certainly was.

The second half of the movie is more engaging, as loose strands from
the first are finally woven into a conventional good vs. evil morality
play. But even here, virtually every turn in the plot is easily
predictable, as Rowling uses the same pro- Muggle/anti-Muggle dynamic
employed in the Potter series to define her characters, plus an
ironically preachy lesson in the harmful nature of organised religion.
Fortunately, the actors, particularly the good guys and gals, are able
to overcome the limitations of the script so that I couldn't help but
like them and cheer them on. The cinematic recreation of early 20th
century New York is also well done.

However, on the whole, I think Rowling is capable of better work than
this. For movie-goers content to be dazzled by special effects, this
film may do the trick. For those who want more than a formulaic "Hagrid
saves the world" knock-off, the film will probably seem much longer
than its two hour running time.
