
First of I love Bill Murray in just about anything. I often check up on
Bill to see what he is taking on next and have looked forward to this
ever since i read about it. I enjoy going to the movies with my
grandmother for a nice time together and asked her out to spend 2 hours
with Bill today. I was not disappointed what so ever. Yes there was
more potential with the stellar cast that was put together and the
editing may be a bit sloppy but don't let that turn you off. This movie
will take you on a journey if you care to let it. Murray once again
plays a bitter old timer that turns out to have a heart of gold in the
end. If you are sick of this shtick, which i will never get tired of,
then don't bother. But this is a social commentary on the oppression of
middle eastern women and really the overall need to take a stand for
yourself. Bill has the "golden ears" and knows talent when he hears it
even if he didn't discover it himself. He puts his life on the line for
his 20% to support an Afghani girl(one in too many) with a talent she
isn't allowed to share. Once this comes into play the movie blossoms
into beauty. While it isn't lol funny, which i don't understand why
people come to expect that from William these days, it is very sweet
and heartfelt. The jokes are there if you care to listen and not sit on
a pedestal. I get if you don't want to be ripped off for the price of
admission for this movie but don't s**t on it and wait to rent it. It
is still far better than 99% of the garbage that comes out on a weekly
basis. I also enjoy casually questioning people as we leave the theater
as to how they enjoyed the film and ran into a refugee from Afghanistan
who really enjoyed this picture and the message that it sent. Idk I'm
half drunk and rambling and wrote a terrible first review but Eff off
film snobs go judge the globes and shove them where the sun don't shine
:) peace out imdbers
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will be horrible for people who expect every movie to be
like Independence Day, The Martian and Star Wars. This isn't a block
buster. It's a simple movie about a simple story with a raw cut feel.
There are no fiery explosions. It's an interesting story with
characters that are cliché but real cliché. 

Bill Murray gave a good performance and it wasn't phoned in. I enjoyed
it. It felt to me like a 2nd (and better) attempt at a Lost in
Translation type story. My guess is that most people will want to catch
this on Netflix or On-Demand, which is fine. There is no particular
reason to see this on the big screen, but it is a decent film to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Rock the Kasbah is an upcoming American comedy film directed by Barry
Levinson and written by Mitch Glazer. The film stars Bill Murray, Bruce
Willis, Zooey Deschanel, Kate Hudson, Leem Lubany, Scott Caan, Danny
McBride, Kelly Lynch, Arian Moayed, Taylor Kinney, and Beejan Land.

Richie Lanz (Bill Murray), a has-been rock manager takes his last
remaining client on a USO tour of Afghanistan. When Richie finds
himself in Kabul, abandoned, penniless and without his U.S. passport,
he discovers a young Afghan girl with an extraordinary voice and
manages her through Afghanistan's version of American Idol.

Rock The Kasbah is surprisingly a great musical comedy.I am absolutely
sure this film will achieve international success.
<|_=00=_|>
A washed up talent manager arrives in Kabul to do a tour but ends up
discovering a talented Afghan singer and enters her in a singing
competition. It's a comedy and keeps the tone throughout even though
the background is serious. The flight to and arrival in Kabul is quite
laugh out loud. Lots of culture clash and war humor about the
conditions in Kabul. Zooey Deschanel as the singer and Taylor Kinney as
a soldier deliver some funny lines. This is a Bill Murray role and he
keeps the comic tone and a droll vibe going. Kate Hudson looks pretty
if unlikely as the hooker with the heart of gold. The young Afghan
singer played by a Palestinian actress is quite lovely and sings well.

I don't understand the negativity. This is an insightful and very
different comedy and a rare comic look into Afghanistan. The on
location filming in Morocco is quite atmospheric. Worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see why the critic reviews for this are so low, they put me off
watching it initially but I'm glad I saw it eventually. It actually
starts off really strong with a great setup featuring Zooey Deschanel
who I'm not the biggest fan of but her scenes were very funny and her
chemistry with Murray was quite good. The plot centres around Bill
Murray playing a washed up music manager who ends up booking a tour of
Afghanistan with his only decent act played by Dechanel. Once they
arrive in the Middle East things don't exactly go as planned and some
unlikely antics ensue to varying comic effect. Bruce Willis and Kate
Hudson both appear but the real star of the show is obviously Bill
Murray, and while this isn't his best work he's still charming and
entertaining and manages to elevate the proceedings enough to keep
things fun. I laughed intermittently throughout but I did find the
beginning to be the strongest and thought that by the end it had lost a
little bit of steam but that didn't stop me from enjoying it. I
definitely recommend giving it a watch if you like Bill Murray or if
you're a fan of adult comedies that don't rely on raunchy humour for
laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is a film that true Bill Murray fans will love and get.
Bill Murray is one of the greatest actors and comedians of the past 20
years. If you are not the type of person to understand Bill Murray's
subtle comedy and charm, then you probably won't get this film.

If you see "Comedy with Bill Murray" and you expect to see The Hangover
or Bridesmaids type humor, then of coarse you will be disappointed. I
had about 10 big laugh out loud moments during this film.

But this movie is more than that, it had a good message behind it and
for most people who do not live in third world countries this movie
also provided a very interesting view of the culture in another
country.

Also, there are a lot of cameos by very famous and fantastic actors
that I had no idea were involved in this movie, until I watched it. I
don't even want to mention those actors names because the surprise of
seeing them in this movie added to the charm.

Not only that, but the cultural message behind this movie was so
important, touching, and moving, and demonstrates that love and beauty
will triumph over old archaic beliefs that restrict societies that have
trouble letting go of the past.

As with most Bill Murray movies, it won't be an all around crowd
pleaser. But there is an audience who will truly appreciate this movie
as I did. I give it a 9 out of 10. I reserve 10 for movies I love so
much that I want to scream it from the roof tops. This movie truly
deserves a 9 out of 10 though. I think the low ratings for this movie
by critics reflects an ignorance of Bill Murray's comedic style, but
also a politically correct culture that is too afraid to rock the boat
on issues that really matter for all of mankind. I think this movie
plays out beautifully. I didn't know what to expect. I went with the
only expectation being "I want to see this new Bill Murray comedy". And
I think if you were to compare this to Life Aquatic or Lost in
Translation, then you would be either more impressed or at least
equally impressed.

I couldn't have had a better Friday night out to the movies. Thanks
again to Bill for accepting a quality role in a film that he thought
would be worthy of starring in. 

Had some great laughs, the movie offered a positive uplifting message,
and I was grateful to have seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
A small time talent agent from Van Nuys, California named "Richie Lanz"
(Bill Murray) takes a singer on a most unlikely tour to Afghanistan.
Richie thinks he is going to the legendary Kasbah, but his sub-teen
daughter points out that the Kasbah is in a different country. Richie
is not deterred by such details. He takes his singer to Afghanistan and
very quickly he is liberated of passport, money, and singer leaving him
completely vulnerable in a foreign war zone. But this is Richie Lanz
from Van Nuys. With nothing but his wits and a talent for negotiation
and undying faith in his gift of gab, what does he see? Opportunity.
Murray's character walks the line of using great humor and sarcasm
without crossing over into embarrassing the people of Afghanistan.

What could have degenerated into silly slapstick stuff, has some deadly
serious moments when the Afghanis speak of a 25 year war that has
decimated their homes, their families and culture as wars always do.
Murray is supported by Bruce Willis as "Bombay Brian," who seems so
subdued as to be in almost a cameo appearance. Opportunities missed
here to use this character for comedy and taking some good "shots" at
the lunacy of mercenaries.

Kate Hudson also appears as the village woman of entertainment
("Merci"). Her devastating good looks are amazing. Merci forms a
business partnership with Richie to promote a talented local girl whose
very existence is a challenge to the status quo as in Malala. The humor
in this film is very good and well-paced through the film. Vintage Bill
Murray stuff.

The message here is when 20 AK-47s are pointed at you, there is always
the alternative to talk things out. Find a common ground and never stop
believing in basic human decency. Hmmm. What a concept. Beats "shock
and awe" any day of the week. There is a touching dedication at the end
of the movie for the real life Afghani woman who inspired the film and
dared to sing popular music publicly. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally think of Bill Murray movies as comedies aimed toward the
pubescent-thinking male, so I'll grant that my opting to see "Rock The
Kasbah" (2015) was due to the plot being centered around a music
industry manager--I'm a musician myself--and the fact that Zooey, Kate,
and Bruce were also starring in the film. I was very pleasantly
surprised to find that a much deeper message was being delivered than
what I'd expected and I'm really happy I decided to check this movie
out.

There's definitely a message being delivered here that goes deeper than
making a 13-year-old laugh and it's one I hope others will have an
open-enough-mind to take in and appreciate. I watched this with a
friend whose comments throughout caused me to realize the prejudice
with which your average "Joe Citizen" might view this film. I, myself,
am humbled after finding (once again) that I've been less open-minded
in my own thinking and more judgmental of others than I'd like to
believe. So, before anyone starts throwing around any words or slams
like "unpatriotic" or whatever, I urge you to stop and think about why
you might have any preconceived hatred of others who you most likely
know nothing about. Think about how those thought might've gotten in
your head. Think about who it is that might've caused such thoughts to
exist in your head and--this one's really important--what THEY might
have to gain by having you think in such a manner.

I now have a new-and-improved view of what to expect from "a Bill
Murray movie" and a new appreciation for the man himself, realizing he
goes deeper than one might think. Plus I like his viewpoint.

I highly recommend this flick, but before viewing I also highly
recommend that you take a few moments to ground yourself, open up your
mind (after emptying it of any thoughts or prejudices you might be
predisposed to thinking), sit back, and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
"From the moment you heard me sing. Since you found me in the cave.
Since we were put here on the Earth. Everything in our lives has led us
to this time, this place." Richie Lanz (Murray) is a music manager who
has fallen on tough times. When he decides to take his client to
Afghanistan on tour she freaks out and disappears. Unsure of what to do
he thinks his prayers are answered when he hears someone singing in a
cave. He really thinks she has the talent to win the Afghan Star
singing competition but is hampered by the traditions of the country.
This is a great movie. Just flat out great. Not only is Bill Murray
good (as always) but the music is great as well. The best way to
describe this is a music centered version of Good Morning Vietnam.
Funny and smart with a serious topic all holding it together. This is a
movie that I really enjoyed and I recommend highly. Overall, if you
liked Good Morning Vietnam you will love this one as well. I give it an
A-.
<|_=00=_|>
" . . . it must be some sort of a festival," Richie (Bill Murray)
remarks to a nervous USO tour rookie singer he's managing early in ROCK
THE KASBAH. Just as Robin Williams' GOOD MORNING, V!ETNAM caused
American President Milhouse Nixon to quit over there, ROCK THE KASBAH
may result in U.S. Commander-in-Chief H. Obama giving up on
Afghanistan. After all, what kind of country blows up goats?! The fact
of the matter is that such a development would be even more disastrous
than the Vietnam debacle. When America lost that war, an entire country
of allies dropped off the globe. (Just try to find "South Vietnam" in
any recent world atlas.) As Richie says here, "You don't want to be the
guy who left the Alamo." Harry Truman committed to keeping U.S. troops
in South Korea FOREVER, and it's still on the map! This despite North
Korea's insane, nuclear weapons-wielding ruling madman. North
Vietnamese leader Ho Chi Minh did not have a single nuke to his name,
yet Nixon cowered away and Saigon was renamed for the victorious
American-beater Mr. Minh and remains so even today. Salima and all the
other face-exposing females featured in ROCK THE KASBAH will be stoned
to death if Mr. Obama doesn't "surge" up the American troop level to at
least the size of that in South Korea IMMEDIATELY! The "defenders" of
the Alamo were mainly fighting to re-enslave "their" Black slaves,
which the Mexican laws they were defying said were human beings under
the U.N. charter and the Basic Rights of Man. If "Texans" are willing
to die to maintain a Racist System of Slavery for people kidnapped from
another continent, then they certainly should be eager to risk their
lives in perpetuity to make good on Texan W. Bush's promise to keep
Afghan women safe when he invaded in 2001. We cannot wimp out! Karma
dictates that ALL the many military men and materials from Texas should
be devoted to Afghanistan for at least the next 300 years, to erase the
egregious Crimes against Humanity committed by the "Defenders" of the
Alamo and their ilk.
