
I haven't seen Amy Schumer's show but with all the talk about her it
seems as if she's regarded as some groundbreaking comedian. While this
movie isn't terrible, it plays it too safe and ends up being very
formulaic. There's definitely potential in Schumer's writing and I did
enjoy her acting, but overall this first film by her falls flat. 

The biggest problem with Trainwreck is that it's so predictable. It
uses the number one cliché in romance movies where the couple breaks up
and mopes around for a few days but then gets back together at the end
of the movie. 

I hate, HATE this cliché with a passion. It's so annoying that it's not
even funny. Off the top of my head here are some movies that use it:
Ted, Bridesmaids, Bruce Almighty, What Happens in Vegas, Office Space,
Pitch Perfect, and Rock of Ages.

The problem with this cliché is that it ruins the pacing and it usually
shows a montage of sorts with the main character moping. Then all of
the sudden the main character is inspired, gets their life back on
track, and wins back their man/woman in unrealistic fashion.

This cliché I can ignore if the movie has a focus on other topics, like
in Bridesmaids and Office Space. But if the main focus is the romance,
you can't make it so predictable. Trainwreck seemed to have other ideas
but does away with them rather quickly, even abruptly kills off a
character who had the most compelling subplot. It seems like Schumer
didn't know where to go with things outside of the romance.

Now, some romance movies do use this cliché but they put a twist on it.
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is genius in its execution of the
plot and plays with the breakup scenario in a groundbreaking way. The
movie Sideways uses the cliché as well, but leaves the ending ambiguous
and up for the viewers to decide. It's no coincidence that both those
movies won an Oscar for writing.

It's not good when I'm watching a movie and can predict exactly what
will happen. During Trainwreck, I kept saying to myself: "Please do
something different, please take this somewhere new" but that never
happens. By the end of the movie I was unimpressed. 

It's a shame because Schumer does have some funny ideas and I could see
her improving with her next film.
<|_=00=_|>
Much has been said about the talented lead performers, and they have
done decent work in previous endeavors. However, not much can be done
with a weak script and with overextended dialogue that doesn't
substitute for quality."Trainwreck" deserves its title for it crashes
early on and never recovers.

We are subjected to the required introduction to explain the
protagonist's wishes to remain unattached. It's most likely the first
misstep for now there's not much to discover in the development of the
film. We know and see a disturbed and socially inept person who is
unable to bond with a person of the opposite sex. What we also get is a
very unattractive person because her language, attitude, and behavior
are really not much to entice any guys beyond the overnight date.

Yes, we can look at it as statement for a woman's right to choose how
to live her love life, but why make the character so unlikable and
vulgar. We have our share of challenging and difficult girls on screen
before, but there were compensating qualities, and the script gave us
intelligent and funny lines. Apatow continues on his crusade to
trivialize and gives himself an easy way to please the crowds and not
demand much from performers and the audience. 

Overall, it's an experience that will tempt you to walk out if you are
in the mood to expect at least a decent film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is like a lot of similar type of movies; meaning movies that
aims to challenge preconceived notions of "what a lady should and
should't be like". It quickly becomes banal, predictable and
irritating. There's no depth of character here, because you sort of get
the gist of the jokes before they're halfway delivered. Having said
that; these kinds of movies can and have been saved by good
performances. Unfortunately Amy Schumer doesn't deliver that. I don't
know why scriptwriters and directors hit the same creative pitfalls
every time a movie like this is to be made. We get it: here's an urban
girl with a modern outlook on life who does what she wants, sleeps with
whom she wants and doesn't apologize for it, etc etc.. good, but then
what? A movie needs more than just a cliché of a character, predictable
jokes and bad acting.
<|_=00=_|>
This is *not at all* the movie they're advertising.

I expected a hilarious, raunchy romp. What I got started off gross,
although not very funny, but then it slowed down. Before long it became
tedious, with some touching scenes with the father, which carried it
along for a while.

By the 1-hour mark I was willing to stay but waiting for it to end.
Then it really started to drag. It's like somebody said, "Let's make a
really, really bad imitation Woody Allen movie without the comedy or
the genius."

When I finally just couldn't stand another minute I got up and got out.
I knew it must be near the end, but it didn't matter. I did not care
what happened to the two protagonists *in the least.* UGH! LEMME OUTTA
HERE!

***SPOILER*** I don't actually have a spoiler, my whole review is a
spoiler. The movie makers seemed to get desperate after the 1/2-way
point. They threw in random scenes, apparently trying to spice it up,
but oh, my, are they dumb.

Lebron James is a big surprise. He is good, and funny, and fresh. Tilda
Swinton's prodigious talents are curiously wasted. Marv Albert, Chris
Evert and Matthew Broderick must cringe at the very thought of what
they had to put on the screen to get their paychecks.

Trainwreck is a very surprising huge disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
No spoilers here, there's no plot to spoil and not big amazing scenes
or reveals to discuss. Suffice to Trainwreck is a huge waste of time
and talent. It should not have been such a bad film but it's beyond
terrible. The humour is weak and practically every joke misses the
mark. Lebron James is the best thing in the movie - he's the only
saving grace. Judd Apatow needs to learn how to edit a comedy down to a
short, sharp 1hr 30min as well. I shouldn't be sitting in a comedy
wondering if I've missed a week of my life because it feels like the
movie has gone on forever. I should have learnt my lesson after This is
40! I am sure fans of Amy Schumer will lap it up but if you're not one
then steer clear.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoy Amy's TV show and was expecting big things from this
movie but ended up feeling I'd wasted my time watching it and it's off
delivery leave a bad taste in the mouth. Was it that Amy just wasn't up
to a feature length film or was it Judd Apatow's direction that made
this not work. Where Amy's mischievous bad taste gender stereotype
flipping gags work on her show, here they were missing the knowing nod.
Amy fitted her self centered character's skin too well and at feature
length you started to believe this was a real person and someone you
wouldn't want to spend time with, even in a movie. Schummer was too
ugly, and I don't mean that in a physical sense. Hader was good, as
were most of the actors, apart from the product placement sports stars.
It really started to drag in the last 3rd, possibly because it had
nowhere to go, which is exactly where it ended up.
<|_=00=_|>
And what a trainwreck it is! I have actually watched a few episodes of
'Inside Amy Schumer', laughing a few times and sitting there confused
for most times. I understand how hard it is for a stand-up comic to not
only star in, but write a comedy that lasts at least 90 minutes.
However, with all my understandings I just didn't like this film. Small
parts of it were kind of funny, but the rest of it was like a mashup of
ideas that were trying hard to come together.

Hader was the only redeeming factor of the film. He acted with intent
and knew the role he was playing. All the celebrity cameos (especially
from some of the sports stars) seemed strained at the best of times.
Amy herself is unrelatable. I don't understand why people are going
crazy for her?? Is it because she is a female in a highly male
dominated industry? I'm sure she truly is a funny person, but maybe
test run these things a bit more before sending them out into the
world.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a fussy person when it comes to movies and I was irritated by
this one within less than 20 minutes!! I found Amy Schumer's character
pretty vulgar and crude...and not in a funny way. The first eight
minutes of listening to her, really made me want to turn the movie off
and it takes a lot for me to feel that way, kind of like nails down a
chalkboard. She also portrays her character very superficially, which
normally does not bother me too much, however when it's coupled with
unnecessary cursing every 2 minutes, along with a vulgar tongue...it
doesn't come across well. Vulgar is not funny, especially in women!
It's trying too hard to try and be funny. Tilda Swinton's character was
even worse, she was obnoxious and also vulgar, two very difficult
qualities that make it hard to watch.

I did not laugh once (and I laugh at most comedies) and did not enjoy
any part of it!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie last night with my girlfriend and we were expecting a
romantic comedy but what we saw did not have much romance or comedy.

This movie is about an unappealing and dull surgeon that (for some
reason that I never understood) fell in "love" with a completely
unappealing, dull, dumb free-spirited woman that doesn't seemed to have
absolutely nothing in common with. 

That's the main problem with this movie. Amy Schumer's character is
completely unlikeable the whole movie and I keep trying to figure out
what the men that went out with her saw in her!! There was absolutely
nothing attractive, cute, charming, spunky and/or wise about her
personality. To make things worse she is not physically attractive. I
know her character is supposed to be unlikeable, but dammit not the
whole movie!!

The second problem with the movie is fails as a romantic one. I did not
feel anything for the characters. They did not have anything in common
and I am still trying figuring out how the hell they clicked. For this
I blame the script. The are not enough situations in the movie showing
how their connection grow. They had nothing in common!! They just had
dinner and sex and they love each other. Did I mention that there was
absolutely nothing attractive, cute, charming, spunky and/or wise about
Amy's personality and to make things worse she is not physically
attractive. When the doctor told Amy "I love you" I rolled up my eyes
in disbelief.

The movie is also way too long and in many parts slow and boring. We
laugh about four times during the whole movie. Many people left the
cinema half way through.

I did enjoy Tilda Swinton's Dianna.

While watching this movie I kept thinking about "When Harry met Sally"
a far superior film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's stunning how endlessly stupid movies can be. I've never been a big
fan of Apatov, his kind of humor never left high school, but then comes
this film along, and voila, he lowers the bar even more. 

This is a movie that thinks it has some kind of 'feminist' philosophy
behind it, alas, all there is are the oldest jokes that never were
funny to begin with and a story that doesn't exist. There is no wit,
there are no thoughts and for sure there is no intelligence. How in
heaven can those people who are involved in this thing become 'names'
that supposedly stand for something, whatever that is?

Is it so liberating to watch more or less ugly people who pretend to be
'actors' say stupid stuff about sex? Wow. Sex and the city is an
intellectual giant compared to that flick.

Resume: one of the worst sixpack movies for 'womens'. What an insult to
mankind.
