
This is probably the best horror movie I've seen in the past decade. It
Follows is a throwback to classic late '70s - '80s horror films and
draws many comparisons to John Carpenter's style, from the music to the
cinematography, and rather than appearing like a carbon copy or rehash
of Halloween, director David Robert Mitchell executes this odd premise
with such flair and finesse that you can't help but be refreshed by its
cleverness. Everything about it works, from the brooding pace to the
relatable characters, effortlessly sucking you into this gloomy world
where STDs can pass on entities that follow you around no matter where
you are. This is where most of the suspense comes from, because instead
of relying on blood and shock value, It Follows is subtle and thought
provoking - you never know where this thing is and it moves so slowly
that you don't know when it will appear, and this uncertainty in
waiting is what real suspense is all about. 

One aspect that stands out, apart from the brilliant writing and
directing, is the musical score by Disasterpeace. It's absolutely
gorgeous in the most ominous, haunting way you can imagine. It's retro
but not dated - heavy on synths and low on bombast, it sets the eerie
tone of the movie right from the get-go and elevates the film's
effectiveness into the stratosphere. Even as a standalone listen the
music is brilliant, but when juxtaposed with the bleak imagery and
unnerving atmosphere, it's downright masterful.

It Follows is not an overtly scary movie. It's a slowburner, and the
emphasis on mood over jump scares makes it all the more terrifying. The
acting is spot-on, the cinematography is glorious, the pacing is
perfect - it's a breath of fresh air into the horror genre that has
been on life-support for a while now. I can go on and on, but the thing
to remember is that It Follows is not for everyone. If you're expecting
this to be a paranormal slasher or something of the sort then you
probably won't enjoy it. It's purely psychological, and these days,
psychological horror is making a huge comeback. Last year we had The
Babadook and this year the movie to beat is It Follows. Both movies are
by new directors - Jennifer Kent and David Robert Mitchell respectively
- which means they have their entire career ahead of them to rejuvenate
the genre to the heights it used to reach. It Follows is a masterpiece
in every respect and an absolute must-watch for horror fans that
thought the genre was completely drained of originality. I can only
imagine where horror will progress from here.
<|_=00=_|>
Inspired by 70's and 80's horror, it follows is a refreshing
psychological horror film with a simple premise and a chilling concept.
The cinematography is electrifying, every shot is beautiful and the
score holds brilliance, it carries a very obvious John Carpenter vibe
to it. The tension is raw, avoiding cheap jump scares and relies on
music. Its eerie atmosphere is extremely effective keeping you inches
above your seat for the majority of the runtime. The characters are
interesting, providing depth and emotional attachment, most modern
horror films seem to forget the importance of character development,
its nice to see the genre hasn't completely lost it yet. There are
several jumps scares, but they work, as they are not carried with
unnecessary piecing music jolts but with the use of disturbing and
sudden imagery.

The only errors I could detect were the unconventional editing style,
the transitions were a little dodgy lacking fluency, this left the film
to appear choppy at times but this flaw can be easily forgiven. Its
outstanding cinematography and soundtrack make up for this. The film
leaves a daunting stain of disturbing after effects that follow you for
a long while, with a constant reminder to always check behind your
back. An exceptional low budget indie horror film, strongly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand these raving reviews for this movie, this movie
literally is a more graphic abstinence propaganda film. If you have sex
before marriage with multiple partners you will die... maybe... If you
walk really slow.

These kids clearly have parents, who seem to be okay with their kids
running all over the country side with no accountability.

They didn't even follow their own established rules for this poorly
established creature; At one point it is mentioned that if this thing
touches you, you will die, So when chilling on the beach it grabs her
hair she manages to get away, however a little later down the line it
instantly kills her neighbor with sex... Uh alright I guess...

They never explain, or even bother trying to find out where it came
from or why it just wants to sex people to death. Also they mention
that "IT" will take the form of anything to get close to you, including
people you love, however twice I think it was do we see it take on a
form of anybody they know, once at the beach, and once as the neighbors
mom. Would have made more sense to have "IT" just take the form of
somebody you love so it could get you...

This was over-hyped trash and if I could get my money back, that would
be great. Wish I could rate this 0/10. Weak Plot, Weak Acting, honestly
where can I get some of that crack everybody who reviewed this
positively is smoking?
<|_=00=_|>
It Follows is a horror film made for horror fans, and it's about time
one of those came around again.

This is a movie that was light on the jump scares, which is a
delightful change of pace. In the past few years more and more horrors
have relied on jump scares to make up for the true scariest part of any
horror film, the sense of dread. Dread is felt in this movie almost
immediately because it combines so well with the tone, another
forgotten about ingredient in horrors.

There is no real way to explain the plot of this film without it coming
across like a more twisted game of "tag," which played a part in
exactly how many people I could talk into seeing it after the mixed
feelings from the trailer. That being said, the film breaks a lot of
the norms set by today's "scary" films. This is a movie that knows what
it's doing, and its main concern is to make the audience feel as if
they are a part of the experience with the sense of realism. With the
enemy being as far-fetched as it may come across in conversation, it's
easy to get caught up in the surroundings of the characters looking for
"it." Having to watch over the characters' shoulders throughout the
movie makes it all the more frightening when something IS seen, and
there's never a sense of safety.

It Follows takes a good deal from the greats in the horror genre,
namely Halloween. I recall a great deal of times thinking "wait, that
was in Halloween," where the background is scarier than what could pop
up out of the shadows with some loud sound surrounding it. The score in
this movie is simply unnerving and remarkable. It adds to the tone and
creates an even more frightening and uncomfortable feeling when "it"
has appeared. It was as if I were watching a great Carpenter movie in
the theater, and it's been a great while since such a possessing and
haunting score has come along. It truly is like another character in
the movie, but used so well it adds to already-present uneasy feeling
that one has while watching.

It Follows delivers where other recent horrors have failed, it creates
memorable moments and characters which the audience feels for. Also
unlike recent films, there is no way to predict what direction the
movie will take, and there is finally not a completely predictable
ending. Horror movies have taken easy ways out and desensitized the
audience throughout by having things jump on screen which make the "big
moments" feel insignificant and forgettable because audiences have been
jumped at so much they just don't care anymore and they're ready to see
"the monster die" (I'm oversimplifying of course, but the intent is
clear). Meanwhile, this film has (quietly) some of the most memorable
terrifying sequences of the decade thus far.

Of course, I'd have a useless review if I didn't address the
performances of It Follows. All of the other elements I've brought up
in the review were almost created by, and greatly assisted by, the
acting. If the acting is bad (which is a common thing in horrors), then
it's hard to make anything else believable, which distances the
audiences and takes away a lot of the sense of terror. The acting is so
real by the cast that they make this plot seem genuine. They're not the
usual teens that the audience can scream "why did they not think of.."
or "I would've.." at. They address the horrifying situations as real
people would, they're not magically filled with some convenient insight
and they're not face-palmingly idiotic, either.

In a year filled with soon-to-be many blockbusters and money makers, It
Follows will be remembered by many as one of the best of the year. It
is a film that embodies all things horror, and pays great homage to
what made people adore the genre. Like a good brand of medication,
without the side-effects, It Follows is what the genre needed and is,
to me, one of the best horror films of the decade to this point. With
all of the key ingredients in place, we've got a great film here. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Do yourself a favor and watch another movie. I was deceived by IMDb's
high rating. I'm giving this movie a 1-star to even out the high
ratings. It should really be about a 4 or 5.

This is a scary movie about teens written by teens. The main character
gets cursed by a walking ghost when she has sex with her high school
date. The ghost begins following her no matter where she goes. If it
gets close enough to touch her, she will die, and the curse will pass
back to the previous person, her high school date. So she must have sex
to pass on the curse and save herself! Except she'll never really be
free because the curse will reverse when a victim is killed and move
back to the previous person. The curse can kill all the victims up to
and including the original person whom we know nothing about (this is
actually explained in the film but it's never explained why or how they
know this). Logically the only solution is to have lots of sex and
there's no real danger of anyone dying.

What you end up with is 100minutes of fake scares with several PG13 sex
scenes and a dead mom ghost mom humping her dead son (spoiler alert:
the high school date dies)

The last person passes on the curse to a hooker, whom you assume dies
because in the final scene you see the main character walking casually
down the sidewalk care free because she passed on the curse, but behind
her you can see the ghost walking.
<|_=00=_|>
It Follows begins how it ends. 

Mysteriously. 

A young woman runs from her suburban home half dressed, terrified,
confused.

She crosses the road haphazardly, then runs back to her house picks up
her bag and escapes in her car, with her father shouting after her
trying to work out what the hell is going on.

It is not explained.

The movie then unfolds. No captions. No narrative. It just unwraps
itself in a way I have never seen in horror.

Whilst it nods at convention (the music is unquestionably influenced by
early John Carpenter and the cast is a bunch of Sorority kids) it is
completely original in every other way. 

It's beautifully shot, carefully scripted without a single ham line and
has a plot that is entirely unpredictable.

The basic premise is this. A "thing" (monster, demon, zombie, entity:
call it what you like) is passed between couples having sex. And then
it follows the 'host' until it is passed on to the next host, again
following sex. 

It manifests itself as a sort of walking zombie that follows the host.
Should it catch them it will not only kill them but possibly all those
in the chain behind.

That's easy to understand. What isn't is how our heroine Jay, played
beautifully by Maika Monroe, attempts to resolve her plight. Really,
this is a rare horror performance, understated and properly acted. Her
fear is palpable. And she doesn't go wandering into unlit basements
every five minutes. It's up there with Jamie Lee Curtis in Halloween.

However, the plot becomes pretty confusing, but it kind of doesn't
matter because throughout this great movie you're just taken in by its
vitality, outstanding cinematography, freshness and the endless
MacGuffins.

Seriously there must be 20 times you're expecting to be scared to death
(Hitchcock style musical and SFX builds) only for nothing to happen.

Anyone walking slowly in this movie could be the 'entity' and that's
repeatedly used as a trick. 

Another great thing about it is the setting in Detroit. It's never
overplayed but it adds a decaying creepiness that is entirely
appropriate.

It's a great addition to the world of horror. Not as terrifying as some
say, but absorbing and pure quality from start to startling finish.
<|_=00=_|>
Jay (Maika Monroe) is a young, attractive girl coming-of-age who lives
in the suburbs and, like pretty much every other young person, is
finding out who she is through trial, through error, and with her
friends for company. She is seeing a guy, Hugh, who acts a little odd
sometimes but otherwise seems nice and trustworthy so one night she
consents to his advances and they share an awkward but intimate moment
in the back of his car. However, her post-coital bliss is cut short
when Hugh inexplicably chloroforms her. She wakes up tied to a
wheelchair in a derelict building where Hugh is rambling an apology
about how he is doing this to her to show her that it's real, that it
sometimes takes the form of someone you love to mess with you, and that
she has to sleep with someone to pass on the curse. She is convinced he
is maduntil she sees "it".

The rest of the film sees "it" stalking Jay. Fortunately, she is able
to demonstrate the reality of "it" to her friends who band together
around her, without the help from any adult authority, as they try to
understand the nature of this thing and how they can help her friend
given her reluctance to merely pass it along by sleeping with another
poor unsuspecting horny teen.

Honestly, the culmination of the first act of the film, in the derelict
building, came as a complete surprise: the scene showed me a fresh
vision of horror which was genuinely scary and discomforting despite my
jaded tastes. The slowness of the preceding scenes matured into a
crushing, intense uncertainty when I realised that it wasn't what I
expected from a horror and felt, for the first time in a long while, a
sense of not knowing what I was watching.

The rest of the movie doesn't quite live up to this chilling reveal. To
be frank, I can't think of how it could. Rather, the themes and
references that led to the reveal are unpacked to flesh out the film's
universe. We see multiple scenes of urban decay and adult authority
figures are conspicuous by their absence. In addition, the refreshingly
natural colour palette (not that grungy green which seems to
characterise most horror movies these days) and a creepy score create a
palpable sense of alienation and loneliness which mirrors the
characters' confusion as they attempt to battle this malevolent force
in the middle of the standard sexual and identity confusions of youth.

What's more, as the film progresses we realise that despite being set
in the present the cars, TVs, and clothes seem to be imported in from
the 80s. At first incongruous, as the film progresses I saw that these
choices could be seen as an homage to the slasher movies of the late
70s/early 80s, especially John Carpenter's 'Halloween', with their
subtexts of the dangers of unsupervised teenagers having sex which is
clearly much of what 'It Follows' is concerned with. The result is a
film which appears bold and fresh, but under closer examination reveals
a fertile heritage of horror which it gains much from drawing upon and
referring to throughout the runtime. However, all this is so artfully
executed and to such a great effect that a familiarity with this
lineage is not required and, moreover, the film still has much to offer
those that are.

As it seems to be the case these days, horror movies without the
tiresome jump-scares or which don't regurgitate haunted houses, creepy
kids, or possessed girls get a lot of abuse from certain sections of
the horror audience. If you like those tropes, avoid 'It Follows'. If
you like fresh, daring, and thoughtful horror which lingers long after
the film ends, watch it. Now!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so f. boring from the start until the very end.. I'm
surprised I didn't fall asleep. I mean, a sexual transmitted curse in
which a ghost that can look like anyone follows you... walks after you
everywhere you go.. Walks.. really slow.. and if it catches you it
kills you. "Oooo".

How is that scary? Haha. Other than this you get no backstory and I
felt they only ran around in circles trying to defeat this thing, by
that I mean trying the same things over and over even though it did not
work the first time... hilarious in a way. Such a stupid story, with
bad acting. Not once was I scared and I watched it alone. It was not at
all worth my time. Don't watch it. 

To be honest I don't get how anyone can think this is anything other
than trash. If you want to get scared for real I'd recommend Dead
Silence (2007) or Grave Encounters (2011) some of my favorites in the
horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>
It Follows is the most refreshingly terrifying horror movie I've seen
in the last year.

The movie begins on an exceptionally terrifying note, opening with a
teenage girl fleeing from her house. She's running from someone - or
something - but what? We have no earthly idea, but her fear infects us
with an overwhelming and inexplicable terror. This opening scene sets
the bar high for the rest of the movie, and we know that we will
receive no mercy.

Director David Robert Mitchell knows what he's doing here. He knows
what scares you, and executes it perfectly. With camera-work that can
only be described as "surreal", we feel as if we are in a 100 minute
long nightmare. The worst nightmares are the ones you know you can't
escape from - you can't move fast enough, no matter how hard you try.
At the heart of the horror film lies this simple, terrible truth: You
cannot escape death.

In this nightmare, an inexplicable terror is following the protagonist.
It's not a matter of WHAT is following her - per se - but rather WHEN
it arrives. The inevitability of its coming is by far the most
terrifying aspect of this movie. 

These are actors you've never seen before, yet characters you know
personally. The music score is one you've never heard before, but one
you will never forget. This movie is a nightmare that you can't wake up
from, and it is scary as Hell. You might as well be tied to your seat,
forced to watch as an unstoppable, grotesque, demon-like entity walks
slowly toward you...closer...closer...and closer. 

This is how horror movies should be made. Fear should "follow" you, not
"surprise" you. It Follows is easily one of the most terrifying horror
movies of the decade. I recommend it 100%.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing scary about it. You never find out what exactly "It" is or what
it wants or how it originated. Pretty pointless movie. It's basically a
movie about passing a STD around, which apparently passing it on to
someone else didn't help the problem since the original guy still saw
"It". Filming was horrible too, most of the movie looked like someone
was walking around with a video camera. I gave it 1 star because 0
wasn't an option. I'm flabbergasted at the people who gave this a good
review. How anyone thought this movie even deserved 2 stars is beyond
me. The only things I could come up with was either they had a part in
the movie or they were on some hard drugs. An hour and 40 minutes I'll
never get back.
