
I've often said that every movie has a point of view and, whether you
agree with that perspective or not, every film should be judged on how
well it presents its story. It's difficult, therefore, for audience
members to take a movie seriously when it's obviously "reaching" in its
efforts to back up its point of view, and then sends mixed messages
along the way. The drama "Captive" (PG-13, 1:37) has problems that
should be obvious to the average Movie Fan before he or she even enters
the theater. First of all, the simple but vague title has been used
previously by at least six other movies, with greatly varied plots.
(How can you hope to distinguish your movie and its supposedly unique
message by choosing an oft-used and fairly meaningless title?)
Secondly, when basing a movie on a true story which assumes an
unprovable connection between events, you've chosen a story which will
be difficult to make into a compelling feature film. (More on that
later.) Thirdly, when your movie obviously wants the audience to think
one way about certain characters and incidents, but then shows the
audience just the opposite, it's tough to get any clear message across.
(Another point to be expanded upon later in this review.) This film is
based on the book "Unlikely Angel" written by Ashley Smith about the
seven hours that she was held captive by an escaped prisoner. Brian
Nichols (David Oyelowo) grew up in a middle-class family, had a
God-fearing mother and attended college. He played college football and
held down a couple decent jobs, but something went wrong somewhere
along the way. He's about to go on trial for rape when he brutally
beats a female guard and steals her gun and police radio. While
escaping from Atlanta's Fulton County Courthouse and later trying to
avoid detection, Nichols kills four people. Looking for a place to lay
low for a while, he comes upon Ashley Smith (Kate Mara) smoking a
cigarette outside her suburban Atlanta apartment. At gunpoint, he
forces her back inside her otherwise empty residence.

Ashley Smith was a young woman who hadn't killed people, but had messed
up her life in other ways. She was addicted to meth, a habit which had
cost her her husband, who had been stabbed to death by a drug dealer,
and her daughter, Paige (Elle Graham), who the courts had taken away
from Smith and who was living with Smith's Aunt Kim (Mimi Rogers).
Ashley obviously loves her daughter very much and is trying to get her
life together so Paige can return to living with her, but she's having
trouble staying on the straight and narrow. We see Ashley at a
Celebrate Recovery meeting (an addiction rehabilitation program
sponsored by evangelical Christian churches around the country), but
it's mentioned that this was her first meeting in a while. One of the
group's leaders tries to give Ashley a copy of Pastor Rick Warren's
best-seller "A Purpose-Driven Life", but Ashley throws the book in the
trash. (The woman retrieves the book and drops it off at the restaurant
where Ashley works as a waitress.) Ashley continues doing meth and is
high as she's unpacking her new apartment on the night that Nichols
abducts her.

Over the next seven hours a strange bond develops between Nichols and
Smith inside that apartment. She's initially as frightened as anyone in
that situation would be, but she stays calm enough that Nichols doesn't
perceive her as a threat. At first, he ties her up, but eventually he
allows her to move about the apartment freely. He learns that she has
drugs in the house and makes her share. Later, he forces her to help
him ditch his truck. In spite of all this, as morning dawns, she makes
him breakfast and the two of them talk. They commiserate over how they
both feel misunderstood. When Nichols sees Smith idly thumbing through
Warren's book, he asks her to read some of it to him. This happens
several times during Smith's ordeal. At first, Nichols dismisses
Warren's words as "a bunch of church crap", but, as the night wears on,
he seems oddly calmed and even challenged by the short passages Smith
reads aloud.

I won't take issue with the possible role of a higher power in this
story, but rather with the way it's portrayed. It'll be clear to most
discerning Movie Fans that Warren's book had little, if anything, to do
with the way this story is resolved. Smith could have accomplished the
same thing by reading to Nichols from her diary. It was her attitude
and her approach that calmed Nichols down. Also, are we to overlook
Nichols' crimes because they're shown with no blood and aren't repeated
later in Smith's apartment? This is a decent home invasion story, but
any suggestion that we should sympathize with a man who was unrepentant
after murdering four innocent people is offensive, and the idea that a
non-Christian drug addict diffused a potentially deadly situation by
reading a few sentences from a book that happens to mention God is just
silly. There can be little doubt that this experience changed Smith's
life (how could it not?), but surviving such an experience would've
changed the life of anyone regardless of her beliefs.

The main thing that makes "Captive" any better than an After School
Special are solid performances by leads Oyelowo and Mara, as well as
Rogers and Michael K. Williams (as the lead detective pursuing
Nichols). Still, all these performances do is put a nice coat of gloss
on a story that makes questionable assumptions, sends mixed messages
and means little except to those directly involved. "C-"
<|_=00=_|>
Meth addict Ashley is held hostage by escaped convict and murderer
Brian Nichols. In order to try to avoid being killed, she reads to him
from inspirational book The Purpose Drive Life.

This film is a fairly straightforward linear narrative, recounting the
facts of Nichols' murderous escape from the courthouse, leading to his
kidnapping Ashley, whereby the latter two thirds of the film becomes
essentially a two-hander between Kate Mara as Ashley and David Oyelowo
as Brian.

And I felt the film fell down here. Mara is very good, and Oyelowo is
as good as he can be with a part which is underwritten, undeveloped, or
just plain impossible to identify with: you understand Ashley
perfectly, but I couldn't comprehend Brain at all. Oyelowo gives him a
look which is halfway between blank and puzzled when he's not being
angry, and I could never get to grips with the person there. And the
hostage situation starts off well, but I don't much like inspirational
books so, while it may well have helped Ashley, it did little for me,
and I found the latter part of the film quite dull as a result. A
shame, because it started well. I felt that what started as a suspense
thriller turned out to be an extended commercial for a book which I had
no interest in.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film without knowing anything about Brian Nichols and his
story and I enjoyed it. I then saw the low ratings and mixed reviews
and i wondered why. I'd classify it as drama/thriller: the tension is
present throughout the movie but the main feature is the development of
the two leading characters. David Oyelowo's acting is solid but it's
above all Kate Mara's performance that strikes the viewer with her
portrait of a troubled woman trying to make sense of her life. The
interaction between the two, ranging from violent to almost tender, is
another leitmotif. I guess knowing the ending takes away a lot of the
suspense making it predictable hence my summary line. All cast is up to
the task and delivers nuanced work.
<|_=00=_|>
On reading the synopsis I wasn't sure how they were going to pull off a
movie about a captive converting a convict. Based on a true story it
seems they pulled it off by mostly skimming it and delivering a fairly
straight criminal/hostage movie.

To me it is sad that this is a true story because once it was done it
went to Oprah and the facts, and I didn't see the black male convict
being interviewed and celebrated. In fact the purpose driven life he
gained was to in fact not see his son until he becomes 18 and chooses
to do so. If it were a fiction I would have liked to see the captive
fighting to make sure that man saw his son, or at least shown that the
mother of his son then made contact and facilitated communication and a
relationship between father and son.

Without this information the story is a sad one, which would be fine,
but it is framed as good for everyone despite the obvious. He even
gives her her phone, a clear sign of relenting himself to the
authorities, yet he doesn't give himself up. Was this confused
storytelling or did he intend to give up but got scared again? We don't
know because it's not even hinted at.

I love the idea of this movie but what it delivers is trash mixed with
troubling truths.
<|_=00=_|>
Great acting and a true story cannot compensate for a second-rate
cinematic adaptation like director Jerry Jameson's "Captive," even with
first-rate thesping from David Oyelowo, Kate Mara, Michael Kenneth
Williams, and Mimi Rogers. Basically, this hostage drama is based on a
true-life incident that occurred in Atlanta, Georgia, back in 2005.
Rape suspect Brian Nichols broke out of his cell in the Fulton County
Courthouse and shot a judge, a court reporter, a sheriff's deputy, and
later a Federal agent in a bid for freedom. After stealing three cars,
he wound up at the Duluth, Georgia, apartment for Ashley Smith. Not
long afterward, Atlanta Police surrounded the house and convinced the
killer to surrender. Ashley Smith documented her experience entitled
"Captive: The Untold Story of an Atlanta Hostage Hero." What could have
been a genuinely exciting thriller amounts to a dreary potboiler with
Christian author Rick Warren's devotional book "The Purpose Driven
Life" serving as product placement. According to the hostage that
Nichols holed up with, she read Warren's text to him and the message of
"Captive" is that the killer saw the light and gave up to the
authorities. Many well-intentioned Christian movies aimed at regular
churchgoers boast low-budgets and borderline talent. Unlike those
standard issue faith films, "Captive" contains first-rate acting with
"Selma" star David Oyelowo cast as the killer with no qualms and
"Fantastic Four" actress Kate Mara as Ashley Smith. Sadly, despite its
workman-like screenplay by "Not Easily Broke" scenarist Brian Bird,
"Captive" generates only a modicum of suspense. The charisma that
Oyelowo and Mara bring to their respective roles has no counterpart
with anything else here, except "Days of Grace" lenser Luis David
Sansans' wobbly cinematography that lends an edgy quality to this
lackluster outing. Nothing about this PG-13 rated, 97-minute melodrama
is remotely captivating. Indeed, during the end credits, we catch a
glimpse of the real-life Brian Nichols and are treated to a "Oprah"
interview with Smith about her close encounter with death. Most of
these Christian movies rake in millions, but "Captive" has struggled
despite its laudable cast and earned back little more than its
$2-million budget. For the record, Oyelowo served as one of the
producers. Comparably, "Captive" and "No Good Deed" share some
similarities, except "No Good Deeds" coined far greater cash.
Presumably, "Captive" didn't have enough Christian values to bring in
the flock. Spectators that appreciate strong acting may enjoy it simply
because "Raise the Titanic" director Jerry Jameson doesn't rub our
collective noses into scripture.
<|_=00=_|>
Raise your hand if you thought this movie was going to be about a man
getting saved by Jesus after a woman talked to him about it while he
held her hostage? 

Well... that is not what this movie is about. This movie is about a
mentally unstable man spending 7 hours or so with a strange woman he
selected at random in a parking lot to chill with because he was lonely
or something. The movie's main resolution is that she overcomes her
meth problem, she turns in the alleged "monster", and she goes on to
Oprah to share her horrific story and meet Rick Warren. 

Granted, the real story is problem a thousand times better than the
movie version. But the movie version sucks. You will not feel
satisfied. You will not see God working through these people (well sort
of but not in a way that moves you to tears). 

Go read the purpose drive life and pretend this movie never happened.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally loathe so-called "inspirational" true stories, and at first
was ready to give up on this generic two-lives-in-collision movie. I'm
glad I stuck with it because David Oyewolo really delivers the goods ,
as opposed to the rest of the cast, who seems to be phoning it in prior
to cashing their paychecks. I never got a sense of Kate Mara as a
character, even though she is one of the main protagonists. Oyewolo,
however, is a revelation, bringing to life a range of emotions from
desperation and despair, tenderness, remorse, and ultimately
realization of the impact of his actions. There is a particularly
nuanced scene as he is speaking to his baby son which is extremely
powerful without being over-the-top. Oyewolo is definitely one actor to
watch!
<|_=00=_|>
I guess I would not had even put this on if I knew it was one of these
faith based films.

Captive stars Kate Mara as Ashley Smith, a single mother who has lost
custody of her daughter, is late for work and life in turmoil because
she is addicted to crystal meth. At rehab she has been given a book by
the American evangelical preacher Rick Warren's The Purpose Driven
Life.

David Oyelowo's plays Brian Nichols, a man accused of rape who breaks
free of custody at court by shooting a Judge and three court officials.
He goes on the run and hides out at Smith's apartment for 26 hours
while the police search for him. At the apartment he takes drugs and
Smith reads passages from Warren's book which has the effect of him to
turn himself in.

That believe it or not is the plot. For a moment I thought, he is
pleading his innocence for the rape, somehow he will find the correct
culprit like The Fugitive, apart from the issue he killed all those
people in the courthouse.

This is a cack handed and tedious two hander as Smith and Nichols talk
about finding a spiritual connection. It certainly is no thriller and
at the end when the real Smith appears in a clip of the Oprah Winfrey
show the real message of the film becomes clear but was there really a
need for such propaganda?
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this - wow! David Oyelowo and Kate Mara deliver powerful and
nuanced performances that stayed with me long after the movie had
ended. We are taken inside a terrifying situation, based on a true
story - a woman, Ashley Smith, a recovering meth addict, is taken
hostage in her own home by Brian Nichols, who is on the run, having
killed several people already. What will he do to her? Will she get
away? But there is so much more to it. Somehow I found myself caring
also about this killer. Weirdly, in this midst of this tense situation,
they develop a human connection that drew me in. There are surprising
odd details - she makes him pancakes, he helps by putting up a mirror.
Two broken lives, a terrible situation, yet somehow this is a hopeful
film. Absolutely compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Captive is based on the true story of a junkie trying to get her
daughter back who is taken hostage by a killer in her home. 

It's a moderately entertaining story which is helped greatly by good
performances by the leads Kate Mara and David Oyelowo. The story does
fall flat in places and there is a surprising lack of tension garnered
from the situation. However the actors do there best with the material
and this just about elevates the film above average in my opinion.
Saying that there are enough good scenes to keep you watching.

It's nothing to get excited about but it's a decent enough thriller to
pass the time especially if you have never heard of the story.
