
Risen is a well done action movie with strong writing of an old story
in a fresh new way. Please don't waste your time picking apart the
theology. All direct quotes from the Bible were accurate and powerfully
depicted. It is a FICTIONAL account through the eyes of Pontius
Pilate's right hand man (Roman tribune) Clavis. No, Jesus and the
disciples did not hang out with a Roman after the resurrection. We all
know that. It deviates from the Biblical story to show a different
point of view and they do it graphically and with a great connection to
the audience. 

This movie pretty much picks up where "Passion of the Christ" left off.
They unabashedly told the story from the end of the crucifixion into
the full-on resurrection, into the ascension and traveled with Christ
into Galilee with the disciples all the way to the ascension. Somehow
it was not hokey or silly. They did it well. I highly recommend you go
see it while it is still in theaters. The scenery was beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from seeing Risen, and I have to say, I was actually
impressed. This is a very well made movie. They handled the biblical
story respectfully, while taking creative license in a way that
maintained the spirit and overall message of the gospel. To anyone else
considering making another film based on the bible, please take note of
this film. This is how it's done. No rock creatures to be found here.
Just a wonderful film that tells the story with excellence and dignity.
I absolutely loved this movie, and fought tears during the 2nd half. I
eventually lost that battle, and I heard other sniffles in the audience
as well. So be prepared. (By the way, someone please nominate that
Roman guard in tavern for an award.)
<|_=00=_|>
With the most recent Biblical movies that Hollywood has come out with,
Noah and Exodus, the main complaint, at least from the Christian
viewer-base, was that they didn't stick to the accuracy of the Bible;
in this film they do - so it has that going for it, if you're a
Christian. 

At the top of the IMDb page it lists this movie as Action, Adventure,
and Drama; but in reality it's pretty much just drama. There is a 3
minute action sequence at the beginning and that is about it. It's not
bad that it's Drama, but it is a slower paced movie - I only point this
out because that is one of things I like to know when going into a
movie. 

The movie itself wasn't terribly exciting, but for the Christian
audience, who like to see portions of the Bible "brought to life", I
think it will find a decent viewer ship. That being said, if it's
Friday night and you're looking for a fun movie, then this probably
isn't it.

Thankfully, this isn't another "God's Not Dead" where they smack you in
the face over and over again with how awesome Christians are and how
terrible atheists are - it basically just sticks to a fictional
storyline of what might have happened to a Roman centurion who is in
charge of finding the missing body. 

The bottom line is this movie is the very definition of "good" to me,
not bad, but not great...just good.
<|_=00=_|>
Risen is a fun movie, with many touching moments. It's faithful to the
original story of Jesus, but also completely different as the story of
a Roman Tribune commanded to find the body of Jesus to quell the new
messiah movement. Jesus is played by an excellent choice of actor, who
is less of a male model look than many movies. Fiennes is awesome as a
man who undergoes a life changing series of events. The basic plot and
conclusion of the film is simple yet profound, and should be
appreciated by believers and nonbelievers alike. The night I watched it
I dreamed about the movie all night, not something which normally
happens. The quality is above most faith-based films and is full of
action, humor, and inspiration for the whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
With nothing else to see, I went, somewhat reluctantly, to see the new
Biblically inspired, movie, 'Risen' (which, as you can see, got good
reviews on IMDb). Ostensibly about the crucifixion and resurrection of
Christ, it's more a logical investigation imaginatively laid atop a
history lesson, a key miracle of the New Testament, and a logical
examination of rational thought challenged by inexplicable events. Told
from the perspective of a Roman Tribune sent to investigate how Jesus'
physical body disappeared from it's tomb, it's a story well told, seems
historically authentic, and I (a lapsed Catholic/agnostic/skeptic)
recommend it highly. It was also an interesting exercise in memory, as
I strained to remember what I remember from hours of Catechism, and
yearly celebrations of Good Friday, Easter, and the Feast of the
Assumption...which turned out to be...not much.

There are parts which recall 'Life of Brian', it's a little bit long,
the disciples resemble the inhabitants of the hippie commune in 'Easy
Rider', Bartholomew is completely over the top, and the actor who plays
Christ is iffy. But, then again, he is tasked with the impossible role
of being man and God (just what expression would you choose if you
played Christ?) without descending into camp farce. All in all, he does
OK.

Joseph Fiennes plays the Tribune with authenticity, honesty, and an
openness which allowed me to put myself in his place...how does a
rational man deal with fundamental challenges to his heretofore solid
as a rock, world? When do you surrender to faith when all the 'reason'
in the world suggests that reason has little to do with it all?

It's a good movie, well worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Risen is a Biblical Drama/Adventure film that follows Roman Tribune
'Clavius' (Joseph Fiennes) who is tasked with investigating the
disappearance of the body of 'Jesus of Nazareth', who has been rumoured
to have resurrected. This movie was a very pleasant surprise as i went
into it expecting just an average film about a story that has been
represented on the big screen many many times, but i got a very
interesting, and dramatic film that had me hooked right to the very
end. Many of these biblical films do touch on many of the same beats,
but this film approached the story in some interesting ways and offered
enough new to differentiate it from the others. The film featured some
excellent/very good and convincing performances, but also had one or
two miscasts. The story progressed at a steady pace for most of the
film making it very easy to follow, and the film was also accompanied
by a pretty good soundtrack that i did not expect at all. 

One thing this film did with its story that really worked in its favour
was tell the story through the eyes of a non-believer, and that added
so much more to the story and more interest in the film. This added
element let the story take turns that you wouldn't get from just an
average biblical film and was great to see. The film also 'looked' very
good in terms of the scenery and cinematography, it was very subdued
and didn't really have grand set pieces and scenery that were obviously
CGI. This really helped the film seem very grounded and i couldn't be
distracted by any obvious CGI. 

I have to say that i enjoyed the last 2/3 of the film much more than
the first 1/3. I felt that there were some pretty big pacing issues in
the beginning where it either felt like it was progressing too slow or
it was moving too fast. There was a lot of jumping through time and
skipping over quite a few scenes, and it was quite jarring at times.
But as the story developed it quickly flowed at a very steady pace for
the rest of the film and i quickly forgave it for its earlier blunders.
In terms of performance, Joseph Fiennes was fantastic in the film as
'Clavius', he was the standout in the film and put in a very convincing
and engaging performance that carried the film, especially early on.
There were also good performances from other side-characters who
elevated the film especially later on, but they weren't all good. Peter
Firth who was cast as 'Pontius Pilate' was really not good at all, the
way he delivered his lines felt very forced and not natural at all. Tom
Felton was also a complete miscast, he just did not work at all as a
Roman Soldier and his dialogue was very wooden and fake and just gave
the impression that he was overacting and did take me out of it a
little. 

So in the end this was a surprisingly very good biblical film that
offered enough new elements to this familiar story to differentiate it
from the countless other similar films. This film would have been much
better had they cast someone other than Tom Felton, as he was bringing
down the film when Joseph Fiennes was putting in a fantastic
performance. It's no 'Passion of the Christ' but it is better than a
lot of other biblical films to come out in recent years. 

7.3/10
<|_=00=_|>
For a fallen-down Catholic boy like me, seeing Risen, a take on the
weeks after Christ's Resurrection, should have offered me a year's
supply of cynicism. As it turns out, the film was a pleasant trip back
to the days when I did believe, when awe was a companion of my faith.

This uninspired Biblical thriller shows a powerful Roman tribune,
Flavius (an underplaying to good effect Joseph Fiennes), ordered by
Pilate (Peter Firth) to get rid of the Nazarene, and after His
resurrection, find Him, and kill Him again. With restraint, director
Kevin Reynolds makes even me a brief believer because the actors, from
Cliff Curtis (Yeshua--Jesus) to Mary Magdalene (Maria Botto), play
their roles with a natural affection that's supported by no swelling
music or dazed looks.

But it's Fiennes who impressed me most: As he plays a character who is
probably meant to be a surrogate for doubters like me in the audience,
he actually makes us believers for the moment. So dedicated he is to
proving this Messiah a hoax that his growing belief becomes a balm for
our disbelief.

Beyond this nicely played worship is a set that looks like it came from
a hundred other "B" movie sword and sandal epics. Yet, the underplayed
plot, which pretty much follows the New Testament depiction of Christ's
resurrection, has a quiet charm that reminds us of the Biblical text
that needs no resurrection: It is with us forever.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this review contains a spoiler.

Now this movie is 1:47 long. In that time, there was in fact two
movies, the first hour was truly like a detective story unfolding
during the time of Jesus Christ's death and resurrection. The
development of the Tribune within the context of service to the emperor
as well as locally to Pilate was well done. However, the greatest
tragedy of writing in this movie was after the Tribune discovers Jesus
meeting with his disciples, very much risen, welcoming him into the
room. Initially, all that the Tribune can do is drop his sword. At that
moment, all that made sense to this Roman - the Empire, the emperor,
law, order, his role, everything - no longer had any relevance. This is
when the movie should have ended. Unfortunately, what we get is a
completely different tone from now on. With little character
development we get a "Forest Gump" meets "Travels with Charley" tour of
miracles and a jaunt to Galilee. Clearly, the movie had lost the focus
from the first half and there was some felt need to show "Jesus in
action" rather than people in action because of their faith in Jesus.
Truly unfortunate. This made a 4 star movie into at best 3 stars,
falling flat and shining little.
<|_=00=_|>
For more than 100 years, stories of Jesus have been the topic of
movies. Many early works of cinema featured not only Jesus, but Moses,
Sampson, David, etc, but this film is quite different in that is
carries a much lighter tone than most faith-based productions. Sticking
to the basics of what is known from the Bible and other Jewish and
Roman historical accounts of the event, Risen lacks the pious and
pretentious nature many of the films in this same sub-genre contain.
Not quite cinematic per se or traditionally action-packed, the film has
relatively slow pacing but keeps it interesting by supplying
well-developed characters and simply the thrill of the original
man-hunt. Although the message of the Gospel is clearly stated and
shown in the movie, it does not come off as proselytizing. In many
ways, the central character is an everyman because it is fairly easy to
place yourself in his shoes--or sandals in this case--and imagine what
it must have been like to have been in charge of guarding Christ's tomb
and then having to answer for the disappearance. One thing puzzles me;
and that is Columbia Pictures' timing of this release. Honestly, it
makes more sense to have released it the weekend prior to Easter.
Anyway, I digress.

A history and mystery in one! From either objective or subjective
points of view, this is my pick for the best "Jesus" film ever. And
yes, I am including the box office smash Passion of the Christ in that
assessment. But what makes this particular movie more receptive and
less controversial and other faith-based films in the past? Answer:
lack of pretense. Whether talking God's Not Dead or Passion of the
Christ, both films do not attempt to appeal to a broad audience. They
play on the court with the rest of the faith-based movies both good and
bad. Risen plays to the audience differently because it concentrates on
developing the realistic historic characters by pairing what is known
by way of Biblical or Jewish/Roman historic texts with logical
conclusions or using context clues to fill in the gaps. The writers did
an excellent job in developing the character of Clavius as someone with
whom many in the audience could identify because whether believers int
he resurrection or not, we have all questioned our various and
respective beliefs at one point or another and often look for answers
very much in the same way a detective solves a mystery.

Unlike other films where the focus is either directly or indirectly on
Jesus, the focus of this film is primarily on the delicate political
landscape between the Jews and Romans and of course our protagonist
Clavius. However, this film uses the indirect approach to discover why
Jesus' was so special to his followers (and it still to this day). This
indirect approach is far more effective for speeding the Gospel message
than typical "Christian" films. Although this film is clearly about the
mystery surrounding the resurrection of Jesus in the background, the
foreground is a personal journey thus making it more of a historic film
than a "Christian" one, so to speak. Therefore, most anyone who enjoys
Roman or Jewish history will find something of interest in this film.
The relationship between the Romans and Jewish leadership is handled
very well. It shows the game the Romans had to play with the Jews in
order to keep peace in Jerusalem--especially because Caesar is arriving
soon and Pilate needs to show him that he has the Jews under control.

The person of Jesus is also handled better than any other film I have
seen. He comes off as an average Joe--that is, an average Joe who can
heal lepers. But, he connects well with the audience and is very much
down to earth in his appearance and mannerisms. Sometimes it's hard to
understand why his disciples then and followers to this day would
choose to follow such a man, but this film makes it clear why. He
embodies love. On a lighter note, I've always found it funny that in
most historic/Biblical films, such as this one, most of the characters
speak with a British or transatlantic accent. Pretty sure that was not
the case back then. But, at the same time, it does not hinder the story
in any way. Although the film is a little slow and the pacing isn't
always executed well, over all, it keeps in line with the traditional
three-act plot structure and sufficiently supplies the audience with
the proper turning points. Risen also handles character development
very well. I really appreciate the development of not only Clavius but
also Pilate and Lucius as well. To an extent, we also see some
development in some of Jesus' disciples as well. At the end of the
movie, the characters in the story felt like real people, and that is a
remarkable achievement in this movie.

Ordinarily, we don't see movies like this until Easter time. Even
though we are a month out from it, I feel that if you enjoy Biblical or
simply historic movies that are down-to-earth, written, acted, and
developed well that you will enjoy this movie. Traditionally, I am not
a fan of most faith-base movies because they are cheesy, pious, over
the top, or just executed poorly; however, I very much enjoyed this
film and hope you do too.
<|_=00=_|>
Risen gave a fresh but solemn view of the biblical story of the
aftermath of Jesus's crucifixion as it tells the story through the eyes
of a conflicted and emotionally drained Roman soldier named Clavius.
Clavius seems more of a tired observer with his deep stare and mellow
manner, and he seems appalled by the violence that the Roman soldiers
perform, violence that he himself is called on to perform as well. He
is tired of it all and wants to retire to a quiet life with a family,
without witnessing any more deaths. None-the-less, duty demands that he
kill from time to time, which he dutifully does, and he seems half
mortified over this, and half compliant. During the battle in the
beginning of the movie, Clavius apathetically kills a Jewish rebel, and
later, during the tri-crucifixion scene, he orders a Roman soldier to
break a prisoner's leg as he's dying on the cross, then runs his spear
through Jesus's ribs, and he's no more bothered by this than if someone
fender-bendered him at the supermarket.

The way Fiennes played his role as a troubled Roman official was
intriguing, capturing civilians to question them about the whereabouts
of Jesus's body, then dismissing them at will. The viewer expected
Clavius to perhaps resort to violence or torture to get his captures to
speak and reveal where Jesus's body is, knowledge that he desperately
needed to satisfy his commander, Pontius Pilate. However, Clavius never
quite went that far, either out of compassion or exhaustion. While
Fiennes was cast well, Curtis, who plays Jesus, is a cross between a
California hippie and a happy skateboard dude in a Coke commercial. In
his final good-bye scene, Jesus glibly calls across the sand yelling
his farewell as if mom was telling her kids to be good while dad's in
charge.

Clavius's young side kick Lucius is played by Tom Felton, and unlike
Draco, Lucius follows Clavius around looking confused. Bartholomew was
my favorite character. Clavius demands that Bartholomew tell him where
Jesus's body is, and Bartholomew grins flippantly and conveys that he
ain't telling nothing'! Clavius interrogates him more harshly, kicks
him to the ground, and Bartholomew gets up and slowly approaches
Clavius, solemnly bends down to his ear, and says, "he's everywhere!"
Then Bartholomew beams and prances away; the joke's on Clavius! The
only more comical scene was when Clavius asked a group of men, "Does
any of you know Mary Magdalene?" and all of them raised their hands.
One more -- I was amused when Mary Magdalene looked like Miss Karate
Woman beats Godzilla when she kicked an advancing soldier out of her
way and escaped through a stone window. Mary is cast well, but her role
is too brief, as is all the twelve disciples who are never given any
individual definition (except for Simon, who sometimes pouts, and who
sometimes is as happy as Santa Claus). Pontius Pilate is old and whiny
and is fixated on not upsetting public opinion. Maybe he was really
like that, but they don't show the inner turmoil he must have felt
being forced to kill an innocent man to placate the masses.

We all know the ending, but Risen takes an unorthodox (if you will)
direction. We see facial expressions of shock and realization that tell
the story better than computer-generated special effects, and we are
constantly grounded into this time period with the frequent buzzing of
flies over rotting bodies, hair filled with dust and sand, broken
statues of the gods, and earthquakes that crack massive stone gates.
Thus, Risen shows instead of tells, and doesn't preach, thank God.
