
It's a direct to video release. If you're looking for an Oscar winner,
look elsewhere. I saw it on Netflix. Reminded of the slew of bad action
movies I enjoyed renting back in the 80's and 90's.To wit, I am known
as the king of bad movies. Love 'em. I enjoyed it for what it is. A bit
low budget. Not as gory as some reviews would lead you to believe. I
will say this, if the the star, Alexander Nevsky, could lose the heavy
Russian accent, he'd make a helluva lot more sense as Jack Reacher than
Tom Cruise.
<|_=00=_|>
Apparently, this is a 2014 movie that is just being released on DVD,
and which I found in Redbox. Set in Los Angeles, it centers on the
search for a serial killer, named the Black Rose Killer, as a black
rose and a cryptic message in Russian are left on the bodies of each
mutilated victim.

Set in Los Angeles, so far five young Russian women have been murdered
in the tight knit community of West Hollywood. A LAPD Captain (Robert
Davi) has decided to put a fresh team together to try and track down
the psycho killer, so he imports a brazen Russian Major (Alexander
Nevsky) to pair with a rookie female detective (Kristanna Loken),

The rapport and chemistry between Nevsky and Loken was pretty effective
and there is some decent humor sprinkled throughout the film. However,
overall, I found the dialogue and most of the acting to be quite wooden
and stilted.

There's also loads of cold-blooded killings, bloody torture scenes, and
grizzly showings of the dead victims. As the movie progresses the body
counts and the carnage just multiplies. There's a big twist at the end,
which I didn't guess, but which by that point I didn't really care very
much about.

All in all, can't recommend. To note, there were no subtitles on my DVD
copy, except when Russian was being spoken, but I was able to use the
closed caption option on my remote to get the subtitles.
<|_=00=_|>
Director, actor Alexander Nevsky missed an opportunity to really shine
in this movie. Probably he could have done a better job writing the
movie's script himself instead of relying another team of writers to do
the job. The result was no Black Rain (1989) or Rising Sun (1993). The
cinematography was great though along with a some nice authentic
photography work (i.e., a bent top of fence instead of perfect one, the
use of a not beautiful model looking female extra in the airport, use
of really clear sharp focused picture). The movie started with good
promise especially the Russian-American angle and the not so pretty
shots of Los Angeles.

What is striking is the parallel between Nevsky and Arnold
Scharzenegger in his earlier performances like the original Terminator
(1984). Both have a sort of stilted way of talking and their acting is
a bit flat without much character, even for a Russian character. Yet
Nevsky's movie offered up some deeper humanity in a number of scenes as
well as an assortment of detective lingo that was rather appealing.

A seemingly increasing number of weaknesses piled up though. The lack
of the follow through and use of the more than one victims' photograph,
the lack of real concern about one's safety, especially Emily Smith,
the profiler, at least at first. There are the typical use of the
stereotypical illegal searches which doesn't help a Russian-tinged
movie. Somebody forgot the use of undercover disguises and a wire, not
very smart. Wearing a white very visible blouse in a dark warehouse?
Haven't seen very many law enforcement officers not use their
flashlight arm to support their weapon's arm as in this movie. Anything
really dumb about a girl working alone at night under the
circumstances? This movie doesn't rise to the level of Silence of the
Lambs (1991) or Hannibal (2001) not as stylish or as smart. But there's
some heart in this movie and not so much jerking around as many
detective movies. And there's a pretty come back for profiler, Emily
Smith and a nice bit of ending dialogue. There were glimpses that
Nevsky as potential director might continue to improve and produce some
quality and refreshiing movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe how boring this movie is. The acting was bad, the
chemistry was bad, the script was dull. The plot was a good one they
should have been able to do more than they did with it.Blood and gore
alone do not make a great action/mystery movie (or apparently even a
good one). I could not wait for it to be over.
<|_=00=_|>
Com'on people. At least the photography was excellent. Bad script.
Acting sans direction or self restraint. But good grief -- does it
really deserve all this opprobrium? Shots and angles were often
admirable. They found scenes and settings that were quite interesting
and occasionally terrific. ... On the other hand, a stage name
duplicating the cultural hero of the Russ is deserving of The Donald's
approval and accents comparable to Branagh's Shadow Recruit choice are
cringe-worthy. Just imagine what people not super self-conscious of
being C-lister's could have done with the idea here.
<|_=00=_|>
Trendsetter Aleksandr Nevsky brings yet another engaging, action-
filled movie to the big screen. Its name is «Black Rose». This is not
typical average-quality action film like «The Expendables» or «The
Terminator» it is top-notch motion picture. 

When LAPD is completely powerless against a sadistic sociopathic
killer, it calls up to invite Russian specialist major Kazatov
(Aleksandr Nevsky). LAPD had this series of murders investigated by
Kazatov. 

This film served as great entertainment with its breath-taking
sceneries of affluent Los Angeles. I really loved Kazatov punishment
style, because this guy doesn't afraid to break the rules and he never
gives criminals a chance to live. For example, the moment when major
used a «Desert Eagle» to shoot for five times at a thief handbags. In
addition, Nevsky used actors that had either appeared in his previous
movies like «Treasure Riders» or «Moscow Heat». 

Overall, this is a great movie with an excellent action and the god
most loved actor. Furthermore, in a newsworthy press release I read
that Nevsky is going to make a follow-up to «Black Rose».
