
SPOILER FREE ZONE 

Do not watch.

Seriously, I warned you. This movie is so bad I felt the need to create
an account on this site to tell people the truth about it.

If you're a citizen of the USA who is overly nationalistic, if you buy
into the hype of famous actors who end up having less-than-average
performances, if you just started watching movies last year and aren't
yet familiar with all the clichés you will find in this movie, if you
think a blurry, confused action scene is a good action scene, and if
you don't mind the poorly done CGI explosions and the plot-holes, then
this movie is for you.

If not, and if you're really curious about it, just watch the trailer.
The entire movie is there anyway.

SPOILER ZONE 

Here is how it goes: Main character is a typical
American-marine-special-agent kind of dude. He is a reckless,
aggressive, dominant alpha male that can't go one minute without saying
a cheesy one-liner. In fact, almost all his dialogue are cheesy
one-liners. He has a pregnant wife, which is the typical stay-at-home
American mom who cares for his husband.

Then there's the typical strong, maternal black women who dies
courageously, the typical hot white girl female fatal which you "do not
f*** with", the strangely naive USA president who is afraid to pick up
a gun and shocked that so many civilians have died because of him
(yeah, right), the typical eastern villain that hates America, the
faceless enemies with storm-trooper syndrome, the traitor that thinks
the system is flawed and accepted a bribe, and Morgan Freeman, who is
presented as a major character but ends up playing a very minor role
that could be done by any novice actor. Yes, from now on, beware of
films with Morgan Freeman. It's not the first time (I'm remembering
Oblivion, with Tom Cruise) that his face is plastered all around just
to make the movie sell, but ends up being an insignificant part of it.
He may have played great roles in the past, but now it's clear he is
riding his own fame.

Even then, Morgan Freeman is probably the best actor there. Others are
just not competent. Part of the blame is on the dialogue. It's too
cliché and far-fetched. As told before, Gerard Butler does nothing but
throw down one-liners. He has one or two facial expressions: The angry
look and the tender, loving father look. Which makes him an
one-dimensional character that you won't be able to build an emotional
connection with. He is also an insufferable Mary Sue. The USA
president, on the other hand, is pathetic. They try to make him a
determined, strong American leader, but the contrast with his best man
is just too big. It makes him look tiny, fragile and incompetent. There
is not much to say about other actors. All of them play minor roles and
are easily forgettable. And all of them play stereotypical, far-fetched
roles.

Then there is the plot. Oh, god, the plot.

It's bad. The pacing is horrible. Action scene, chase, small break,
action scene, chase, small break, repeat. Not much happens in between.
In part because there is no decent plot. It goes like this: the most
heavily guarded funeral in history ends up having some serious security
flaws. And all because one dude in the USA security agency betrayed
them. That one dude is apparently so powerful, or the security agencies
(American and English) are so pathetic, that his simple betrayal goes
undetected and cause the entire defense operation to fail. How did he
do such a feat? How could half the guards in that day be enemies in
disguise and that go under the radar? How could the prime-minister of
England "die in his sleep" and then no autopsy having been made in time
to clear any suspicions of poisoning? Why is Gerard Butler the only one
who "feels" that "something" is about to happen? Why is it that the
most important target (USA President) is the ONLY ONE that stays alive,
and the LAST ONE that the enemy tries to shoot at? Every single point
of this movie is far-fetched.

Okay, I'm aware that this is a mindless action movie, and plot and
actor performance shouldn't be taken too seriously. BUT THE ACTION
SCENES AREN'T GOOD EITHER! All of them are ridden with that annoying,
off-putting blur and camera-shake effect. And they aren't original
either. Oh, a last-second save. Oh, a car chase. Oh, the helicopter
crashes and they are all alive and without a scratch. Except the black
girl, of course. Oh, the enemies just send themselves at the hero at
the most stupid fashion and end up dead, every single time. It's
tedious, predictable and shows that they are lazy and didn't really
spend any time to think on good ideas.

So if the point of the movie is bad, and everything else is bad to,
what's good? Well, I find the stereotypical representations of the
other heads-of-state to be somewhat enjoyable. There's the female
German Chancellor that is clearly Angela Merkel, the womanizer Italian
prime-minister that is clearly Berlusconi, etc. But all it shows is
that this movie could have been a parody. It is certainly a parody,
with all the exaggerated nationalistic lines and the plot and action
scene clichés, but it's a parody of itself. Its crucial sin is that it
takes itself seriously. But it certainly doesn't deserve more than to
be a punchline of a joke. A bad, boring, predictable joke.
<|_=00=_|>
If like me, you liked the original, this will leave you greatly
disappointed. No breakdown needed. Just mindless cheese through and
through. Whilst the original shocked (in particular the opening scenes)
with a grandiose, beyond belief terrorist attack, London has fallen
shocks with its stupidity, predictability, poor CGI, complete neglect
for any realism (not a even a tad!) and tediously boring action scenes
that would be more fitting for a new van dame movie.

There's no need to break down this movie and pick it apart. Because the
whole thing is just one big, boring mess of mindless BS.

How this movie got over 6.0 is beyond me ! It almost falls into the 'so
bad, it's good category', but not quite, so it's just horribly bad and
you won't be laughing either. 

3.6 Material.
<|_=00=_|>
I love a good, silly, dumb action movie. Truly, I do. But this one was
just insulting... I felt like it was written by a bunch of 13 year old
boys, cranked up on too much Red Bull.

Totally avoid of any characterisation other than in the broadest
possible terms... the dialogue was just horrendous... the plot makes
very little sense to anyone with the slightest scrap of brain in their
head (what, most of the London police force were taken over by
terrorists and NOBODY noticed?)and as for the SFX... you'd be
embarrassed if you saw them in an X-box game! I'll admit, there was one
good action sequence when Mr Butler and the SAS were advancing on the
terrorists lair amidst a hail of gunfire, that was quite nicely done...
but five minutes of decent enough action isn't enough to make me think
that this film is anything other than an utter turkey...

Give it a swerve, IMO.
<|_=00=_|>
Possibly the dumbest movie ever, idiotic plot, American chest- beating,
USA chanting nonsense. 

There is absolutely nothing in this film remotely believable, and after
the nonsense in the first one, you have to hope that this is the end of
the franchise. What shocks me most is the appearance of Morgan Freeman
in this movie. Is he so hard up that he needs to lower himself to this
standard of film?

Do Americans understand anything that happens outside their country? 

Save your time, save your money and avoid this crap. And please no more
"has fallen" films. Let Butler retire.
<|_=00=_|>
Having watched and mostly enjoyed (with the inevitable suspension of
disbelief) the sister film 'Olympus has Fallen' I had the chance to
watch this over in the states. Assuming another dose of suspension of
disbelief, I settled down to watch it.

This film, despite its good lead cast appears to have left the brains
of plot and due process behind as it made the leap across the pond.

Set in London which is gleefully smashed up within the first 30mins of
the movie along with most of the global heads of state it puts action
scenes over plot devices (not that I was expected anything else) but
there are some concerning portrayals of real life characters which
undermine any amount of nice explosions and gun-play.

The heads of state are all archaic stereotypes of what we assume to be
the culture of each country rolled into one person.

For instance, the Italian PM has a young 30-year-old-love who he meets
in secrete atop Westminster Abbey. The Canadian President has the
perfect family. The French President is conducting some kind of
important state business in a kind of renaissance launcher boat on the
Thames replete with Champagne (did he really use it to get from Paris
to London?) and the Japenese PM is stoically quiet, patient and
reserved until the moment when the Thames Bridge is blown up around
him. Of course the US President is portrayed as a hip, fashionable
humane and judicious man with none of these stereotypes (negative or
otherwise).

This marks the first concern - outside of their own nation, Hollywood
really does not care how these cosmopolitan characters are portrayed -
indeed - entire nations are mercilessly the subject of stereotypical
derision as the hapless heads of state are killed in creative manners.
Not that I mind red London buses being the unprinted cue for 'this film
is set in London'.

What happens next is even more incredible. Since the 'assassination' of
the British PM, with the exception of some kind of funeral planning
meeting early on, there does not seem to be any kind of UK government /
leadership / disaster management faculty left. Rather than employ
characters from real life counterparts like 'deputy PM' or 'Defense
Secretary' or 'COBRA' or indeed our intelligence services like MI5 the
film leads us to believe the the job of bringing order to this chaos
falls to a Chief Inspector who thinks that yanks is still an acceptable
term for our American cousins. (He is not even a Chief Constable though
confusingly he does have chief constable epaulet rank badges) of
London's Scotland Yard. Really - the entire intelligence and
counter-terrorism effort. (This would be akin to a police captain in
the WDCPD mopping up after a similar event took out the President of
the US, though we know of course in Hollywood this could never happen).

We have Morgan Freeman as Vice President giving strong suggestions
(read: orders?) over some kind of skype thing to this Chief Inspecter
who enacts his word like some kind of servile unthinking amoeba.

Even our army is portrayed by a portly old man wearing something from
the dad's army set who dares to suggest a military response but is
denied this by Morgan Freeman and sheepishly accepts this reprimand.

At some point the President asks to be shot by Banning should he fall
into the hands of the terrorists. Of course as soon as this is heard we
know that the president is going to fall into the hands of the
terrorists and is undoubtedly going to be rescued again. This removes
any anticipation of plot from the film and leaves the rest of it as
mere action-porn than anything else.

Other issues such as the NSA revealing that they have been spying on a
London address for ages and the mindless insertion of armed foreign
nationals on the streets of London are too numerous to mention.

Should Aaron be re-elected for a third term in something like 'Paris
has Fallen' then I think I might have to go back to watching nature
documentaries on UK Gold to sate my action thirst. Beast hunting beast
in the great oceans would have more twists and turns than this film.

A bland, obtuse and frankly disturbing revelation of how Hollywood
regards the rest of the world should be portrayed against the might and
absolute 'good' of the USA. How arrogant, patronising and disgusting.
<|_=00=_|>
In a nutshell: Supposed best of the 'land of free' (the sunny place
where everyone is happy and waves their spangley flag) come over to the
London (where is constantly rains and everyone is incompetent and
rather sad). London is blown-up but that's OK because they end- up
single-handedly saving the most important person in the world (the US
President of course) - so everything is fine! They do this by using a
lot of fairly bad CGI and applying a script of continuous, cheesy one
liners. 

The script is predictable and from the start full of hypocrisy. Where
did the big, bad arms dealer get his weapons in the first place?
Emmm... tough one that! You are constantly left wondering who is the
real baddie in this movie especially when Gerald and co. rattle-off
their crass one-liners!

Summary: Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
How can decent actors accept to be in such a horrible movie? Morgan
Freeman must have lost a bet to play a role in this movie. So much crap
happens in this movie that basically needs the viewer to remove 99% of
any kind of logical thinking. So the UK police, special forces, and
military can easily be compromised according to this movie, and in
front of real officers who are standing right next to them without
wondering, hey who the heck are these guys? Bombs can be placed in
every famous building without anyone noticing. Hundreds of bad guys can
take over a city and have no army come in to confront them. The
solution they found to deal with weading out the imposter forces,
recall all the known good forces to sit inside while the bad ones can
go about doing their terrorizing. WTF, directors, writers, who did they
poll this movie in front of and had a response of "yeah this all makes
sense". To be left with a feeling of not just wasting time watching the
movie (even with forwarding scenes), and then being left with a feeling
of how can smart people make such crap, is enough to leave the brain
broken. I thought an IMDb rating of 6+ would be a watchable B movie,
but this is not even close to watchable, how did this movie not get an
avg rating of 3?!!! If you've seen it and liked it, think about this
movie with a bit of logic, if you haven't seen it, don't, just don't,
unless you enjoy feeling frustrated by stupid things that happen in
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello everybody,

I've just created my account on this website because of this one. I
felt it was important for me to write a couple of lines about this
movie.

Unfortunately, while the title may seem interesting, I can't say the
same about the film. Indeed, it's not a real movie in the proper sense
of the term, it's a propaganda campaign.

a patriot secret service agent, Gerard butler, saving the life of his
beloved president while fighting the bad guys with a beard and some
black skin they call terrorists.

Just take a look at it, it won't take long before you understand
exactly what I mean. I never thought they would release something like
that, but they did.

this should be studied at school as a tool used to brainwash people.
but if you are a patriot and think that America is heaven, ready to
give your life for your president, if you like closing your eyes while
you're screwed by some politicians and if you think that everybody else
who doesn't accept your opinion should die, then it might be the
"movie" you 've been looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this movie far..far away from realism. I meant, one
person, the U.S Secret Service against hundred's people with AK-47,
RPG, machine guns?that's made me laugh.

So they killed the Queen of England, their armies betrayed the
countries, and where is the England Army?not showed up in the movie at
all.

This movie I think wants to send message to all people in the world
"The United State Is A Super Power Country.." blah..blah..blah..

RAMBO still better than this movie. Well when I watched this movie, I
was understand straight to the point. One man, One hero, live happily
after, and rich. Lol.

England Has Fallen and U.S saved it only by one person, and England
can't do anything for their countries.

This movie really a propaganda, and underestimated other countries,
England, Japan, France, Italy. The producer, the script writer and
others involved in this movie should careful with what they made.

As we saw the movie, Italy Prime Minister enjoyed the view with a girl,
younger woman, and EEkkk..died, the France "Just hold for ten minutes,
and EEkk..The Japanese PM stuck-ed in traffic and Eeekk. The Italy PM
likes woman, The France a lazy person, and Japanese whose produces nice
car but got jammed in traffic. Oh man, this movie insulted other
nation. I'm not saying it, the movies tell us.

This is bad movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Possibly the worst movie ever, idiotic plot, typical American
cheeseburger movie. Clichés, nonsense, irrational scenarios, hatred
against specific cultures and races, and everyone is stupid except the
American cool-tempered invincible hero. An explosion that kills
hundreds of people simply makes an exception for the mighty hero and
his president. They are barely scratched.

There is absolutely nothing in this film remotely believable. All
actors including Morgan Freeman were terrible. Gerard Butler stands on
a level of his own, no decent actor should accept such role.

I can't believe that I wasted any time of my life watching this.

1 star, I wish I could give it a zero
