
"Transformers: The Last Knight," the dreaded fifth movie in the 
Transformers series is supposedly the last to be directed by Michael 
Bay and the last to star Mark Wahlberg. Wahlberg plays his character 
Cade from the previous one. The "attempt" at a plot for this movie goes 
something like this: Cade comes into possession of an ancient 
Transformers artifact called the Talisman and he is the "chosen one" to 
carry out a "quest" for the transformers, while this chick named Vivian 
has to acquire Merlin's "staff" because for some reason she is the 
"only one who can wield it" and Optimus Prime heads to Cybertron to 
find out "where he and the transformers came from and what they're 
doing on earth." THAT'S this movie's plot. Lol this movie thinks it has 
a plot. 

This movie is completely incapable of telling a cohesive story. There 
is no beginning, middle, or end. It throws plot threads at you and 
expects you to roll with them. The most illogical plot devices occur in 
this movie. NOTHING makes any sense. It is so convoluted that the movie 
thinks the audience are idiots. How many times was I reminded of what 
the plot was throughout the entirety of this atrocity? I counted at 
least 32. Nothing of importance happens. Nothing is interesting, 
nothing is entertaining. 

The characters are so thinly written and poorly developed I didn't care 
who lived and who died. At this point in the series, I DON'T CARE ABOUT 
THE DAMN HUMANS! Just give us a movie about Transformers, not about 
humans. None of them are likable AT ALL. Everything involving the 
military, the government, Anthony Hopkins, it's all pointless! The 
movie spends so much time and energy on all the stuff everyone 
complains about with these movies that none of it comes across as not 
appealing, but rather annoying. It's an insult to our intelligence. 

The action scenes are the same lazy action scenes the other four 
Transformers movies feature. It's stuff that appeals only to teenagers 
who do not know how a movie is crafted. Teenagers like action and 
explosions and no talking, story, characters, or emotion. This movie 
appeals to those teenagers. There I said it again. Watching stuff just 
blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up and blow up 
continuously for two and half hours is extremely boring, especially 
since it's the only thing that has happened for five Transformers 
movies in a row. There is no entertainment value to be had just 
watching stuff blow up for a bloated and overlong runtime.

And yes, the runtime is too long, YET AGAIN. Luckily, it is shorter 
than the fourth one which was a very drab and dreary two hours and 
forty-five minutes. This is about fifteen minutes shorter, but it 
easily could have been an hour shorter. Nothing content wise justifies 
the runtime of this monstrosity. It's still overstuffed, overlong, 
dreary, boring, and exhausting, just like the previous three. I'll give 
the first one a pass since I actually enjoy the first one. 

This has all the Bay-isms in it. The typical stereotypes, the typical 
humor, and the typical dialogue, all of which is stupid, offensive, and 
insulting. S many characters are made fun of in this movie for being 
different or having different accents you thoroughly understand why 
NOBDOY LIKES MICHAEL BAY. He is racist, sexist, and doesn't care about 
the audience. He cares only about himself and no one else. It shows.

The two girls in this movie, in typical Michael Bay fashion, are all 
hotted out. The young girl is like 14. In what world is this right? Her 
tits just hang out the entire movie. The other chick just looks like a 
porn star. That's what this series has come down to folks, strippers 
and porn stars!

Optimus Prime is literally in the movie for ten minutes to just say his 
name three times so that we don't forget about him and who he is and 
completely forget that this movie gives him the most sudden shift in 
character motivation I have ever seen, more sudden than Batman in 
Batman V Superman. If you came to see him wreck house, he is a total 
waste in this movie. Quite frankly, none of the Transformers really don 
anything in this movie. They all just kind of hang out and chill and 
insult each other with stereotypes.

This is one of the worst of the year. I felt like I lost IQ points 
watching this movie. It is a loud, dumb, idiotic, incoherent, chaotic, 
soulless mess that appeals only to teenagers who like nothing but 
action and explosions and die hard fans of the series. It is worse than 
Age of Extinction. 

I'm just gonna give "Transformers: The Last Knight" an F-. Yes that is 
now officially a grade.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is like a big story put up in one paragraph with no
punctuation marks whatsoever. Usually Transformers builds up a simple
story that explodes into one big final battle, filled with special
effects and epic fights between autobots and decepticons; pretty
entertaining to watch, especially if you're into big explosions-
action-robots-movies and usually it works. "The last knight" is
different from the beginning, it introduces way more story lines than
it should, it tries to make a suspenseful plot with so many resources
it just drags into a story that's full of holes and patches that it
seems you're watching a lot of trailers from different movies with no
connection between each other. 

The movie forces a lot of secondary roles (between the old and new
characters) that it becomes boring and confusing at the same time. The
main story becomes clear in the last quarter of the movie, just in time
for the final battleby this point you're in fully overdrive mode
trying to catch up with everything that's happened that it's barely
enjoyable. 

Personally I think that the worst part is the lack of continuity, they
jump from one scene to another in less than 30 seconds. This
"dynamicity" makes it impossible to follow the main plot or even one
story line. There are so many details and jumps between stories that it
exhausting trying to connect the dots. I don't recommend it at all, not
worth the money or time. Maybe if you're really curious or a big fan
into the saga you may find it entertaining at some point, my only
suggestion: lower your expectations, cause this is, by far, the worst
Transformers movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie cuts and jumps so much and so quickly (Some scenes are
literally less than 20 seconds long... in succession...) that by the
end of the first half you'll feel dizzy from trying to follow.

It takes everything from the other movies... and spits them out in raw,
bloody bits which make no sense and flow like chunky soured milk.

If Michael Bay has gotten tired of the franchise.... it finally shows.
The last 45 minutes of battle were so bad... it didn't even redeem the
movie.

Trust me... don't bother going to see it in the theater, it's a waste
of your time.
<|_=00=_|>
The worst piece of dirt this year so far. No logic, no plot, no story,
but with Anthony Hopkins. Why did Anthony participated in this dirt
ball mind crap, I don't know but it is not enough. This movie is empty,
it is a 2 hours long advertisement of various car manufacturers and
American military. Worst Transformers ever, please let this garbage
just die and don't bother us with actors who just can not save this
movie. It was just awful to watch, I couldn't believe the low quality
dialogues and just the waste of money for junk CGI no one really cares
about. But why did Mr. Hopkins lower himself to participate in this
charade of a movie is beyond me.

WORST MOVIE 2017
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I do not rip on this movie because I dislike this franchise. I
actually have a major soft spot for the Transformers movies. I love the
cool visuals and the CGI. The first time I saw an autobot transform I
was gobsmacked and in awe over how good the graphics were. These flicks
are fast paced and action packed. And who does not fall head over heals
for BumbleBee!? Transformers are good films for when you need to switch
off from the outside world, and be seriously entertained for a couple
of hours. Yes, even Age of Extinction has a few moments of goodness.
The same unfortunately, cannot be said about this scrapheap of a film! 

To start of with, the opening scenes featuring Merlin the drunk
'wizard' were just incredibly futile (and over acted). Don't get me
started on the magic staff/Excalibur as well as the talisman as the
foundations for the plot... say what!? Suddenly Mark Wahlberg is 'the
chosen one' as the world is about to end! But his lady friend is also
the chosen one as she is the only one who can wield the staff..! So I
guess there are two chosen ones... because why not... that makes sense. 

Yup, it is a Armageddon vs Matrix vs Terminator rip off - mixed with a
big spoon of Arthurian Middle-Age spice. The unholy mixture leaves a
bad taste in your mouth, as one is unable to grasp the incoherent and
unconvincing storyline that does not make any sense at any point.
Transformers 1-4 do not boast any amazing scripts, but this is beyond
lazy and infantile. 

The film is incredibly messy, and spirals from bad to worse to
unwatchable. It goes from dumb, to dumber, to 'I can't believe I'm
still watching this'! The Last Knight is overflowing with drab one
liners and punchlines so feeble that they make you cringe in your seat.
It is 2 hours of everyone going out of their ways to be rude and
moronic. It is painful to watch adults constantly throw loud tantrums.
I like many of the actors in other movie roles, but in this film not a
single one of them bring a likable character to the round table. I
actually quite hated them all...

How could Anthony Hopkins of all actors sink this low!? When he walks
through the submarine museum, pushing people and abruptly shouting to
them to 'move their fat arses and get out' he sadly reached a very
undignified low. Hannibal seems eons away - Hopkins must be out of his
mind to take a role like this one! It is not funny in anyway, just
terribly annoying. Wahlberg's Cade needs a punch in the face. And the
only female character (as always) happens to be a pouty Megan Fox
lookalike. No surprise there. So old and boring.

Do not trust the 10 star ratings. The Last Knight really is a flop
beyond flops. With 30minutes left of the film, my brain could not
handle more torture. I walked out.
<|_=00=_|>
With as many talented people involved in this project as there are, you
would think that at some point they realized what they were making
wasn't so good? That doesn't seem to be the case with Transformers: The
Last Knight. However bad you thought the last few Transformers films
have been, nothing can prepare you for the abomination of this film.

Hearing about all of the silly subplots this film had beforehand had me
very skeptical about Michael Bay's ability to cohesively tell a story
amidst all of the CGI-heavy action. Not that any of the last 3
Transformers movies boasted an Oscar winning story, but they at least
had some sort of focus. Plus, Bay proved once again with 13 Hours that
he can make a real film with real characters. But all of that gets
thrown out the window with The Last Knight. Not only is it extremely
difficult to get behind any of the character's convoluted motives, most
of them don't even deserve to be in the film.

It's one thing to have a few humans ground this bigger than life story,
it's another thing entirely to put the focus on the humans and have the
Transformers be ancillary characters. This isn't about Transformers at
all, it's about Mark Wahlberg's 'Cade Yeager' character being the
chosen "Last Knight" and Laura Haddock's 'Viven Wembley' being the last
surviving member of the Witwicky family. Because, you know, every
important person in the history of humankind has been a secret member
of the Witwicky's, protecting the Autobots from the world. Makes sense.
In fact, the most popular Transformer, Optimus Prime, is in the film
for maybe 15 minutes. Not that these films ever appealed to me, but I
didn't go to see a Transformers movie for the humans, I went for the
robots.

On that note, Bay duplicates what he's always done with these movies is
make some impressive action sequences. It's the one thing I can't
really pick apart. Even with that said, the action sequences don't add
anything new to the series. Without any emotional connection to the
bots or any detailed differences between them, it's all a bunch of
nonsensical slow-motion CGI. Speaking of which, the constant slow
motion certainly doesn't help with the excessive runtime. Even with
Michael Bay coming out and saying it's "significantly" shorter than the
last 3 films doesn't change how unnecessary a 2 and a half hour
Transformers film is. Cut out the supporting characters who add nothing
(Izabella, Jimmy, that physicist guy), remove the Arthurian scenes
(because that was a missed opportunity, and god help us please take out
all of the misplaced unfunny humor. When the film pauses for the
audience to laugh and nobody even dares to chuckle, there's something
seriously wrong with the script.

What's the solution here? We know Paramount will continue to make more
Transformers films, and rightfully so (they make over a billion), and
we know Paramount will inexplicably hire Michael Bay again (BC he's not
going to retire). How can they continue to hire a guy who dismisses any
nuances in the script with his own racist, sexist, and dated direction?
Did they not gather a writer's room with like 10 renowned writers for
this film? Well, I think the solution is to just stop going. I should
have stopped going after the last film, but I held out hope one last
time. As long as Bay is behind these films and directs without any care
in the world, then I won't be considered part of the audience. Enough
is enough. I'm done.

-Horrible script

-Same old lazy direction

-Unnecessary characters and subplots that make the film feel like 5
hours

-Even the action feels recycled

-Still takes itself way too seriously

0.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
As many reviews stated, people did not like this movie for several
reasons. Michael Bay's directing, the plot holes, the story moving too
fast, etc. but as an avid Transformers lover, I was thoroughly pleased.
Growing up with Transformers, I am always open minded about each new
movie, but usually leave feeling a sense of joy and excitement. 

The one part I did question was how to Galvatron go back to being
Megatron... There was no backstory or showing what happened after he
left in Age of Extinction, but that was the only thing I couldn't wrap
my head around. I did enjoy the added humour to the movie, as well as
the lead up to the, yes, sixth movie.

As fast as the rest of the story went, I was able to keep up and take
in, but I will need to see it a second time to fully understand
everything. Optimus Prime was bad-ass, which is why he's my favourite.
Overall, I enjoyed the movie, I will be seeing it again, and if you're
skeptical about this movie, go in with an open mind and I'm sure you'll
enjoy everything it has to offer!
<|_=00=_|>
"I am Bumblebee, your oldest friend. Optimus, I would lay down my life
for you"

the movie to some might not be perfect, but for those who can relate to
the feeling i felt inside after hearing those words ... man... 

it might sound a little rusty, and old school but i guess this is what
it feels like to hear a "true" friend

THE MOVIE IS Amazing
<|_=00=_|>
Writer Matt Holloway is a fan of the drama Downton Abbey (2010), and
jokingly said that Jim Carter (who plays the butler Mr Carson in the
show) should voice Cogman . He was shocked when director Michael Bay
got Carter on as Cogman Isabella and her lovable robot that nobody
cares for only her is a blast there is an emotional bonding going with
cade as he asks him about his daughter there USA story in Michael bays
film which is good as we have another new comer Laura haddock she is a
university professor who show the history to kids about everything she
has a hidden secret only for Sir Edmund Burton who gurads a past to
help keep humanity safe follow her because she will be needed to help
the world from becoming cybertron the impressive Alnwick Castle, he has
a robot butler called cog man who is very good but sarcastic humour I
really don't have much else to say. As stated above, it's the fifth
film, you've already made up your mind whether you want to see it or
not. If the negative reviews have put you on the fence or dissuaded
you, think about whether or not you enjoyed the last four films. If
yes, then ignore the critics and enjoy yourself. what can i say from a
Michael bay transformers his story has an actual story line and he gets
the best story of the lot and good acting from his cast with Anthony
Hopkins he gets an actual good story to tell Michael bay is given his
lead actors and reamigining of the Arthur and the knights of the round
tables with the transformers been involved so we kinda gets another
king Arthur of the summer and also ww2 story in there two this film is
2hrs25mins long and a closing credit sequence just in case the make
another like the rumored bumblebee spin off Anthony Hopkins character
has been guarding a secret so the decepticions his character shows a
bit of comic timing don't get the it hands on a so we see mark whalberg
back as cade Yeager minding his robots at a junk yard the film takes
place in parts in Chicago mostly in London and Africa. its a nice
welcome from America getting hit to spread it out as a globally war
Autobots and Decepticons are at war, with humans on the sidelines. we
see Merlin his mystical power but he comes good as Arthur in medieval
times losing the battles but we see the dragon from the artifact that
Merlin's has been given so its lost to time and nobody knows where the
artifact as mega tron is on the lookout for it as as we see barricade
give cade a special item as we as we see the josh duhamels character is
group take down the transformers comes to alliance with cade as they
find his group in the out of bounds part of Chicago but strange things
hap-ping to optimums we see the army helping mega tron find cade follow
him to a little town as as they give chase and battles the other auto
bots as well as drones so cog man get cade o his plane to England to
help his search as the police give chase to him in London as wheels
brings the professor and Edmond Burton to explain his mythology and
secrets he keeping but all these stories make sense as there is 12
robots guarding a secret as we see the the group get to a submarine
this sequence is impressive underwater to a ship of importance that
leads to an all out assault in Stonehenge with everyone gathering the
support the flying sequence the action are top notch with cybertron
here on earth like the way they tried in transformers 3 this time they
succeed please Michael bay come back when you have another story there
police chases through London submarine chases as well this film has
everything Optimus Prime is gone to search for his maker he comes
across the dead cybertron and quintessa is going to play her cards
right and get the artifact. The key to saving our future lies buried in
the secrets of the past, in the hidden history of Transformers on
Earth. Unlike the first three films where Sam was always "The Chosen
One" and his girlfriend's job was to just run in slow motion yelling
"SAAAAAM!". The main group of Decepticons were actually given
personalities and unique identities. Though completely under- utilized.
They make a big deal of giving them Suicide Squad-like introductions
and their screen time amounts to maybe 45 seconds each . I was actually
surprised how much screen time Anthony Hopkins had. I figured he'd slum
it for two or three scenes, of exposition, grab his paycheck then
disappear.

But he's actually a prominent character and he seemed to have a lot of
fun in the role. this film has a budget of 217 million wow it really
shows being the last film despite the bad review here i gave it 10 out
of 10 i hope they make more here is the list of transformers Peter
Cullen ... Optimus Prime Frank Welker ... Megatron Erik Aadahl ...
Bumblebee John Goodman ... Hound ( Ken Watanabe ... Drift ( Jim Carter
... Cogman ( Steve Buscemi ... daytrader ( Omar Sy ... Hot Rod ( Reno
Wilson ... Mohawk / Sqweeks John DiMaggio ... Nitro Zeus / Crosshairs
Tom Kenny ... Wheels ( Jess Harnell ... Barricade Mark Ryan ... WWI
Tank / Steven Barr ... Volleybot
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is outstanding. You know how when you are a kid you and your
brother throw over the toy bin and pull out dinosaurs, knights, tanks,
submarines, Lamborghinis, Transformers, GI Joe, Voltron, some LEGO
vehicles that can be disassembled and reassembled and a few Star Wars
space ships? Maybe your sister wants to play so somehow a Barbie ends
up in the mix. Then you have an absolutely epic battle with Knights
fighting space ships and LEGOs transforming on the spot to whatever you
want. Toys switch back and forth and fight for whoever is holding them.
Complete insanity ensues. The story makes no sense because it can't but
the battle is truly epic. Your brother grabs a chair and declares its
his planet and throws it at your toys so you throw the couch at his.
Finally your mom comes in and sends everyone outside, so you leave
every toy out and all the furniture turned over to clean up later.
Maybe your sister declares that Barbie just did something. That is this
movie! It has absolutely everything and makes about as much sense as it
can considering. This movie truly channeled second grade for me. I had
so much fun and I cannot wait to go back! Definitely watch in 3D and
try to watch in IMAX if it is available. Do not wait for it to come out
on DVD.
