
This is an outstanding film about a story I knew nothing about.
However, my review is more a review of IMDb and its voting system.

I note that this film has, at the time of writing twenty-two 1 star
reviews. Maybe these are genuine but I suspect they are not. For one
thing the film has not had many screenings so have as many as
twenty-two different people really hated it that much?

Secondly, 1 star films do not get selected for the Toronto Film
Festival or for the opening night film for the London Film Festival.
The programmers and selectors of these highly regarded festivals are at
the top of their game and each year they are offered several thousand
films. None of them are going to risk their hard fought reputations on
selecting a bad 1-star film. 

My feeling is that these 22 people are members of the KKK who hate
black people or else they are people who are jealous of the those
involved in the production. 

Either way IMDb needs to have an algorithm that can deduce whether
these people are genuine, or not. Maybe they are and the press reviews
so far, which rave about the film, are wrong, but maybe these people
are racist bitter bigots who hate the success of others because they
themselves are failures and they have nothing better to do in their
small sad lives but set up false IMDb accounts and vent their spleen in
the only way they can. 

Time as they say will tell.
<|_=00=_|>
"A United Kingdom" is based on the true-life relationship between Sir
Seretse Khama, an African chieftain from what was then the Bechuanaland
Protectorate, and a white British woman, Ruth Williams. The film
implies that he was the King of Bechuanaland, but in fact no single
individual ever held this position; Khama was the ruler of the
Bangwatho, one of a number of tribes making up the Tswana nation, the
largest ethnic group in the country. In Botswana, as Bechuanaland is
now known, Khama and Ruth are today revered figures, as he was the
leader of the country's independence movement and its first President
when independence was achieved in 1966; unlike most other former
colonies in Africa Botswana has remained a democracy ever since, and
their son is the current President.

Khama's marriage to Ruth Williams (they met while he was studying in
London in 1948) was highly controversial at the time. Many of Khama's
own people, led by his uncle, refused to accept Ruth as their Queen.
The South African government, which was just starting to introduce its
policy of apartheid, objected furiously to the idea of a high-profile
black leader in a neighbouring country marrying a white woman. Clement
Attlee's Labour government, anxious to placate the South Africans who
were threatening to leave the Commonwealth, intervened, exiling Khama
from Bechuanaland and forbidding him to return. Winston Churchill, at
the time leader of the Opposition, initially made sympathetic noises,
but after the Conservatives were returned to power in 1951 he took an
even harder line than Attlee. The situation was complicated by the
discovery of diamonds in the territory; the British government, using
the rift between Khama and his uncle as a pretext, threatened to revoke
Bechuanaland's status as a Protectorate and declare it a Crown Colony.
(The real reason was that in a Protectorate mineral rights belonged to
the local people, whereas in a colony they belonged to the colonial
power). One of Khama's few British allies was the Labour MP Tony Benn.

The action switches between an austere, drab post-war Britain and a
bright sunlit Africa. The recreation of historical detail is well done
and both the leading actors, David Oyelowo as Khama and Rosamund Pike
as Ruth, are excellent. The film is an interesting look at a historical
romance which made the headlines at the time but which today is largely
forgotten, at least in Britain. 7/10 

Some goofs. We hear a radio broadcast on the eve of Indian independence
in 1947 telling us that Indians would go to bed "subjects of the
Queen". Britain still had a King, George VI, in 1947. We are told that
Queen Victoria made Bechuanaland a Protectorate to protect its people
from "racist South Africa", but the Protectorate was created in 1885,
twenty-five years before South Africa came into existence as a single
nation. (In 1885 it was still a patchwork of British colonies and Boer
republics). Prime Minister Attlee claims that the Presidents of South
Africa, South-West Africa and the two Rhodesias were all opposed to
Khama's marriage to Ruth. During Attlee's term of office (1945-51) none
of these territories had a President.
<|_=00=_|>
The English film A United Kingdom (2016) was directed by Amma Asante.
It's an interesting love story, based on real events. David Oyelowo
plays Prince Seretse Khama, a young African man studying law in London.
Rosamund Pike plays Ruth Williams, an intelligent, fun-loving civil
servant. They fall in love, and we know that their marriage will be a
difficult one, because of prejudice both in England and in Africa.

What we don't know is that their marriage has implications far beyond
each of them. In 1947, South Africa was gearing up for its apartheid
program. Bechuanaland was a British protectorate, and Seretse Khama was
its rightful prince. However, South Africa borders Bechuanaland, and
the South African government refused to tolerate a mixed race couple in
a neighboring protectorate. 

That meant that not only did Seretse and Ruth face prejudice from the
people around them, but they were pawns in an international standoff in
which Great Britain was willing to sacrifice them to appease South
Africa. What happened next became the plot of the movie.

David Oyelowo is a superb actor. So is Rosamund Pike. Ms. Pike has 42
movie credits, but I believe the only other film in which I saw her was
Pride and Prejudice (2005), in which she portrayed Jane Bennet. I
reviewed that movie for IMDb, and wrote that her performance was
"luminous."

Director Asante is skillful, and the acting and cinematography are
wonderful. We saw the movie at the excellent Little Theatre in
Rochester, NY. It won't work quite as well on the small screen, because
the film has some breathtaking scenes of the African desert. 

For some reason A United Kingdom has a dismal IMDb rating of 6.7. I
don't understand this--it's much better than that. Find it and judge
for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
In the hands of a lesser director than the hugely talented Amma Asante,
"A United Kingdom" might have been nothing more than another
inter-racial romance cloaked in a veil of sickly sentimentality but,
like "Belle" before it, this remarkable film works both as a genuinely
moving love story but, more significantly, as a powerful political
tract that draws attention to a very shameful period in recent British
history with neither the Tory nor Labour governments coming out of it
smelling of roses.

It is the story of Seretse Khama, heir to the throne of Bechuanaland,
now Botswana, who, while a student in London, fell in love with and
married Ruth Williams, English and, more crucially, white bringing her
back to his homeland as his queen, much to the chagrin and disapproval
of both the British and South African governments and his own people.
However, like all good love stories, if not quite all fairy tales,
Ruth's tenacity soon wins over the people of Bechuanaland while the
jaundiced, racist government of the UK proves a somewhat greater
obstacle.

The events portrayed in the film actually took place but until now
haven't't been much discussed here in the UK. Even today inter-racial
love stories can be unpopular and sadly racism remains a major issue
that has yet to be eradicated. It is testament to both Seretse and to
Ruth that their actions were finally instrumental in bringing democracy
to Botswana with Seretse renouncing his kingship and becoming the first
democratically elected president of his country.

In these roles both David Oyelowo and Rosamund Pike are superb and
there is sterling work from an outstanding supporting cast. If the
feelgood factor seems at times a tad on the heavy side in Guy Hibbert's
screenplay it is still heartening to see a movie about love and about
race that is largely unsentimental and politically astute. It is also
gorgeously shot by Sam McCurdy and is a credit to all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
A United Kingdom is a true and gripping tale which handles it true
historical source material with aplomb. With fantastic performances
from Oyelowo and especially Pike, the central characters plight is
beautifully illustrated. It's not perfect; some of the writing is a
little clunky, but the character chemistry is there, and you leave the
movie theatre feeling like a part of the story.

Quite how this movie receives the rating it does is completely beyond
me. I can only imagine that half the voters didn't in fact see the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard of this story, so it was fascinating to learn about
it through the movie. What was interesting was that while the heart of
the film was Oyelowo and Pike's relationship, it wasn't necessarily the
focus of the movie. The first half features them falling in love and
marrying, and the second half is about the political repercussions, and
the Botswanans attempts to gain independence from the British. It's
almost as if everyone in the film used the relationship as an excuse to
act on tensions that had been building for years. So in that regard, I
was surprised. The performances are also brilliant. David Oyelowo
absolutely shines in this film. I think he was ultimately better in
Selma, but he turns in an A-grade performance that unfortunately is
being overlooked. I do think Oyelowo outshined Pike, but she was still
very good. The two had excellent chemistry, and worked beautifully
together on screen...
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that is flying under the radar and deserves
to be seen. It is a wonderful story, well scripted, well acted, and has
terrific cinematography. The fact that is a true story makes one wonder
what the hell we have been learning in school when we have never been
taught this type of history. I give this a ten and really it deserves
it. It is a shame people have degraded the rating for some reason other
than the fact that this is good cinema. It is a very deserving movie
and is like the movie Hidden Figures or Queen Katwe, it is important
for history. I am a white conservative and think everyone should see
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I lived in Botswana for twenty-five odd years and enjoyed every single
moment of it, almost certainly due in large measure to Seretse's
enlightened politics and the genuine and natural warmth of the Botswana
people. I knew both main characters quite well. Seretse was a very
approachable man, even as president, and it was a pleasure to spend
some time in his company. He was a man well loved by everyone, black
and white. In fact, in Botswana one scarcely thought in those terms. As
a politician he had huge charisma and was a great orator. He was also a
born leader. I remember well being told by insiders that government
Ministers who were in trouble for minor abuse of office or the like,
would tremble in fear outside his office when they were to be
'carpeted'.

Ruth was an extraordinarily capable woman and even in her later years
had more stamina than almost anyone I have known. She was at work in
her office in Gaborone from early morning to the end of the day, patron
of the Red Cross, Botswana Council of Women etc etc. Contrary, however,
to one reviewer's criticism, Rosalind Pike's portrayal was quite
accurate. She was not a strident campaigner but a very effective mover
who enjoyed a social life and had many friends. In her widowhood she
received constant visits from senior members of the tribe and
government and was widely loved and respected by her people. She was
most certainly "Mohumagadi" - Mother of the Nation.

This film portrays their personalities pretty accurately and the
characterisation of the actors is extraordinarily true to life. Both
David Oyelowo and Rosamund Pike were absolutely convincing. The quality
of the acting very quickly overcame my initial niggling concern that
the physical likenesses were not quite there. The photography of
Botswana was outstanding and the familiar views of Serowe from the
Palapye 'road' and the scenes in the kgotla were quite emotional for
me; I unexpectedly found I had a lump in my throat.

I can understand that, for others, the film may not have the immediacy
it has for me, perhaps, but previous criticisms of 'cold' and
'unemotional' - No! Leaving aside my personal interest, it deserved to
be the opener for the London Film Festival. Maybe not a total
"blockbuster" but an unusual and great film nonetheless. Very close to
fact.
<|_=00=_|>
I love it when a story is told that many of us haven't heard of or
known much about.

Although possibly oversimplified due to the necessity of keeping the
movie within a normal viewing time, nonetheless, it's a very good story
about an amazing piece of history.

Well acted, well directed and beautifully filmed, this is a film I'm
very happy to have seen. It's an inspirational look at enduring love
and intelligence, at people power and a nation's faith in their leader,
as well as credibly showing yet again how the British Empire and their
bevy of crooked prime ministers deem to destroy nations for greed and
profit, and to boot, having the gall to treat anyone but themselves as
underdogs.

An excellent film for what it is and I would recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I can tick "based on a true story" and "British film-making" I
invariably know that I'm in for a treat. This important and emotional
true story, is a politically charged drama set in 1947 about (on one
side) an African King-in-waiting who risks losing his country for the
woman he loves, and (on the other side) his potential white Queen who
sacrifices her family for the man she falls in love with. 

The first half of the film shows their meeting and falling in love. The
second half shows the white racism that existed to a black / white
relationship and the black African culture that responds to a potential
white queen. What a difficult situation at a delicate period in
history.

A highlight is the emotional "I love my people" speech, which is where
the prince addresses a crowd to stake his case for why he should be
king and why they should accept his white wife. The film has an old
fashioned look and feel. There are strong performances, especially from
the lead actors and also the rest of the cast. 

The British Government's reaction is disturbing at times, but
ultimately the messages delivered are that governments and nations can
overcome prejudice and love will find a way, even in the face of bitter
adversity. 

Very highly recommended viewing.
