
I don't think I have ever written a review on IMDb before, but on this
occasion, I feel I must.

Thank you, Mr Cohen for giving me the biggest belly laughs I've had
from any film in years.

This film is comedy gold. Sure, the story-line is wafer-thin, but who
cares? Although on this turn-out, this film is a bit of departure from
Cohen's previous outings - less mockumentary and more narrative, but it
is gag after gag - non-stop. My sides were hurting before the end of
the first act.

Some of the other sourpuss reviews here miss the point. If I go to see
a comedy, I'm not expecting an Oscar winning, thought-provoking drama.
I want escapism. I'm willing to suspend my disbelief completely in
exchange for a few good laughs.

This film delivers that in spades - and more.

For when a film causes you to bury your mouth in your elbow in fear of
disturbing your fellow film-goers with your laughter, you know you're
having a good time.

And that's all I want from a movie.

Thanks again, Mr. Cohen!
<|_=00=_|>
Went to watch Grimsby last night on a whim and ended up having a great
time. Not everyone's cup of tea I'm sure, but surely anyone going to
see this new Sacha Baron Cohen film knows exactly what they are going
to get.

To be honest I was amazed how good the action scenes where played out,
they could rival any serious action movie, however I was there for the
comedy and that's what I got, I don't want to spoil this movie but I
can't remember the last time I cried with laughter or cringed at the
same time I was laughing, everyone in the cinema was in hysterics at
some of the parts, an overly long scene featuring Elephants (I'll say
no more) made my face and stomach hurt i was laughing that hard.

Rebel Wilson was great I love her in everything I watch her in, her
Aussie accent did come out a few times which I forgive her for, but the
line she delivered "am not pregnant am just fu*kin fat" was as Northern
as they come.

Go see this movie, you'll laugh, you'll cringe, you'll feel ashamed of
yourself for laughing at some parts but you'll be entertained, I
promise.

I do think Sacha Baron Cohen needs to go see a doctor, maybe a
psychiatrist as no one should be thinking up stuff like this, it's
wrong.

As for people getting upset about the movie making fun of Grimsby, come
on it's a joke, I haven't been their but I'm intelligent enough to know
its completely exaggerated for comic effect, I'm from the North,
Lancashire, actually and the funniest thing is how many people I meet
in London through work who think I come from a similar place...
<|_=00=_|>
The funniest movie for at least a year! Sacha Baron Cohen at the top of
his game. Rude, crude, filthy, but absolutely hilarious with numerous
laugh-out-loud moments. So many laughs in fact that I found myself
wiping away the tears from laughing so much. It certainly helps if you
are a Sacha Baron Cohen fan because he is politically incorrect and his
humour is guaranteed to offend anyone who is sensitive to issues like
AIDS, religion, sexual abuse and the disabled. Of course comedy is so
subjective that you mightn't find any of this funny but I had such a
fun time, I cannot wait to see it again to check out the jokes I might
have missed out the first time around from laughing too much. 

Norman aka Nobby (Sacha Baron Cohen) is an English football hooligan
who is happily married to Lindsey (Rebel Wilson). They live together
with their nine children in Grimsby in the north of England. He has a
brother, Sebastian (Mark Strong), whom he hasn't seen for 28 years as
they were separated when their parents died. What Nobby doesn't know is
that Sebastian is a top MI6 agent who doesn't reveal his identity. He
is on a case where is attempting to prevent the assassination of
humanitarian, Kate (Penelope Cruz) when Nobby spots him and
inadvertently causes him to kill the director-general of the World
Health Organisation. With only Margaret (Isla Fisher) in the operations
room advising him, Sebastian must rely on his brother to help him catch
the real perpetrators of the crime. 

There's plenty of gross out humour on display ranging from an elephant
bukkake scene to Nobby sucking out the poison from his brother's
scrotum. Other standout funny scenes include a case of mistaken
identity when Nobby masquerades as his brother to obtain vital
information and Nobby searching for Sebastian in a spa therapy centre.
And if you like celebrities being lampooned, people like Bill Cosby,
Donald Trump and Daniel Radcliffe are fair game for the jokes that are
heaped upon them.

Not only are there laughs aplenty but there are also exciting sequences
that would please action enthusiasts. The point of view scenes that
help Sebastian with locating his targets might be frenetic but they
inject variety into the typical chase scenes. There's even a touch of
sensitive family bonding scenes when Nobby and Sebastian recall what
they got up to during their childhood. Although the flashback scenes
are helpful in providing their adult lives with a backstory, they do
occasionally encroach into the comedy and action territory.

The people of Grimsby were apparently annoyed with the depiction of
their town but what is a Sacha Baron Cohen film without a little
controversy? The run down appearance of the town and hooliganism
representing the townsfolk add a lot to the comedic appeal of the film.

Supporting actors like Isla Fisher and Ian McShane don't get much of a
look in because "Grimsby" truly belongs to Baron Cohen and Strong. One
could say that Baron Cohen is typecast as the unintelligent Nobby but
he plays these sorts of characters so well. Strong is more of the
straight man to Baron Cohen's bumbling fool but it's the situations
they find themselves in that promote the laugh factor. 

"Grimsby" is known as "The Brothers Grimsby" in America. The film could
be called anything and it wouldn't matter for it's the material that
makes it so much fun. This is one of the best gutter humour movies ever
released and definitely worthy of repeat viewings if you're a fan of
this type of comedy, and especially if you appreciate Sacha Baron
Cohen's brand of humour.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big Sacha Baron Cohen fan. I particularly love him in his
documentary-style movies where he uses real people in each scenes and
plays his character around them. He's now proved with both 'The
Dictator' and 'Grimsby' that he can write very well in the standard
comedy style as well. The thing I like most about his films is that
nothing is off limits. Any thing can be said, any event can happen and
no one is safe from his ridicule. There is one scene in 'Grimsby' that
is particularly offensive and shocking to watch. I had seen a clip on
Jimmy Kimmel's show where the audience were seen reacting to this scene
(a very clever marketing ploy) and now I can fully understand their
disgust and discomfort at what they were watching. He pushed it to the
limit with that one.

There's more here than just shock value though. The dialogue is
constantly clever and witty whilst always adhering to Cohen's unique
style. Sometimes it's almost like he struggles with the pacing of his
comedy because the audience isn't even finished laughing at one joke
and another hilarious one is being thrown out there. The thing that
made this better than 'The Dictator' for me though was the story. The
action was genuinely entertaining and interesting. Combine excellent
action and hilarious comedy and the already short runtime absolutely
flies by.
<|_=00=_|>
Great raw humor no holding back in this flick...So tired of all the
negative reviews of this wonderful film from the sensitive wimps of the
comic book intellectual universe where every joke needs a proper set up
or delivery or can't be too much against my twitter world of
perception...I am a big fan of Sacha Baron Cohen and love his
humor...So nice to see him still pushing the envelope...I really do
believe only those with a real sense of humor get this and those who
don't go watch the PG or PG-13 world of politically correct don't
offend anybody sensitive let's all be friendly fantasy world you live
in...KEEP IT RAW AND KEEP OFFENDING THOSE WHO OFFEND SACHA!!! And for
all of you who don't like this movie go watch Blazin Saddles!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed a lot at this movie, and that is the soul criteria I measure
a comedy on. Did I laugh? Yes! This movie had a lot of funny scenes
(especially if you understand the English). 

It's not his finest work, but it's a very good comedy overall. Good
take on the working English class, Football Hooligans, Spy Movies.

To the people trashing this movie, clearly they are offended by the
very offside humour in this picture. I thought they where too much
truthfully at times (Elephant Scene), but overall it didn't ruin the
many other funny moments in this movie.

Definitely worth a watch, lots of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Good Lord this is filthy, and I laughed right through it, sometimes
crying tears. I can totally see why some people would hate it, many
scenes are hard to watch. The "plot" cracks along and the jokes are
pretty much continuous, and filthy. Mark Strong not only makes a
convincing James Bond type secret agent but is as equally committed to
embracing the film's sense of humour, following Cohen into new filthy
territory. Cohen, as usual, has no internal breaks and doesn't seem to
be even trying to figure out where he should stop, he just keeps piling
on the filth to levels hitherto undreamed of. The elephant bukake scene
nearly broke me.

Being drunk will help, but you have to be able to enjoy filthy humour.
Did I mention it's filthy?
<|_=00=_|>
Sacha Baron Cohen is back with his shock and in your face humour, did
you expect anything else. A fully produced movie that's rude in your
face politically incorrect and will more than likely offend those
sensitive movie goers. 

Reunited by chance with his brother after 28 years played by Mark
Strong. Wrongfully accused the 2 battle it out against henchmen, spies
and all sorts of bad guys to save themselves and the world. 

Baron Cohen playing the dumb lower socio-economic lead so well and only
complimented by Strong's solid hard lined acting. It's a good mix of
real world situations and over the top action fight scenes that would
be on par with any Hollywood film, extreme shock comedy and moments
that will literally make you gag.

I see it as a spy parody that works well and there hasn't been one for
ages. The line up of celebrities is nothing to poke a stick at Cohen's
real world wife Australian actress Isla Fisher plays a major part and
does it well and fellow Australian Rebel Wilson playing the wife of
Nobby also nails the part. But does let her Aussie accent slip a
little.

Is it Cohen's best probably not. Thats because I'm a huge Ali g fan.
But it's surely a close number 2. I'd probably put it in the same
basket as The Kingsman.

Grossed out, laugh out loud movie while still pulling on heart strings
and keeping me satisfied from start to finish. A solid 8 out of 10 you
won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this movie, and I say it all in my summary.
After comedy after comedy that makes you grin slightly it was
refreshing to see a movie that makes you laugh out loud. Often. There
was one point where I was literally worried that I would die laughing.
No joke. My health hasn't been the best, and I was laughing so deeply
that I gave a little worry that my heart or lungs would pop. I stiffled
myself. Didn't know what would happen if I just let it roll.

I'm sure that I will remember some things tomorrow that will make me
want to take away a star or two, but right now I can't think of a way
to make the movie better.

The two stars were a perfect match for each other. Their interactions
actually made this movie work more than the laughs. Probably because
they never do what you would expect them to do. I rarely like a movie
where the next move is easily predicted. 

This is easily the best comedy that I've seen since Borat. I get the
feeling that Sasha and I have the same sense of humor.
<|_=00=_|>
Incredibly raunchy and silly, although it's hard for me to admit, I
found myself laughing out loud a number of times during the movie.
Warning: the elephant scene, as other reviewers have mentioned, could
keep you grossed out and ruin your appetite for the next few weeks, or
months.

I'm sure by this point anyone who elects to watch this film, starring
Sacha Baron Cohen and Mark Strong, pretty much knows what they're in
for. My biggest problem, since I found parts of the movie funny, could
be to regard this movie as a guilty pleasure or seek therapy
immediately?
