
The internet can be a very dark place. It's that way because people
feel more comfortable saying how they truly feel on matters when
they're hidden behind a computer screen, rather than being face to face
with someone. Using this darkness as a film subject has been touched
on, but not really mastered yet by Hollywood. 2014's 'Unfriended' is
the best example I've seen of this subject so far. It has a lot of
similarities to 'Friend Request', but remains a superior film. The main
thing that it had going for it was that it was shown in real time,
which covered up the biggest problem 'Friend Request' faced - the
implausibility of no one being able to help.

'Friend Request' starts out as a very fine film. The '2 Weeks Earlier'
segment is brilliantly crafted and sets up what should have been a
great movie. Then, unfortunately, things start to fall apart.
Characters start saying and doing things that make no sense, and all
logic in regards to the social network problems go out the window in
order for the story to stay afloat. There are some very good jump
scares admittedly, however a number of the death scenes are a big let
down in terms of suspense. It still remains an above average horror
movie, but the disappointing thing here is the waste of potential.
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite looking forward to this movie, having seen the trailer, I
thought it looked promising. It started well enough, with Laura (Alycia
Debnam-Carey) meeting Marina (Liesl Ahlers), who is new at the school,
feeling a bit sorry for her and seeing that Marina has no Facebook
friends, Laura accepts her friend request. It is quickly apparent that
Marina is a bit strange and is practically stalking Laura. Laura
decides to unfriend Marina and that's when thing's take a turn for the
worse. It's here that the movie turns a bit flat and is pretty much
like any other run of the mill horror. A few predictable jumps here and
there and thats about it. Liesl Ahlers is perfectly cast as 'the creepy
girl' but we have all seen this movie before and it offers nothing
fresh at all.
<|_=00=_|>
"Friend Request" follows a college student named Laura (Alycia Debnam
Carey) who receives a friend request on Facebook from a lonely girl
named Marina (Liesl Ahlers) who has 0 friends. Laura accepts the friend
request out of pity but quickly regrets it as Marina becomes obsessed
with Laura in a very short amount of time. Once Marina's overwhelming
advances of friendship are rejected by Laura, she decides to take her
own life, film it, and put it on the internet. After Marina's death
Laura begins to lose control of her life and her facebook account due
to further harassment from Marina's ghost.

I felt like the plot was an OK lead in to a very familiar concept,
college kids getting picked off one by one while one person tries to
figure things out and find a way to stop the person or thing that is
terrorizing them. After the initial set up this movie really starts to
look a lot like a number of previous modern day horror films, it just
makes no effort whatsoever to try to shake things up a bit. They took
an overused formula and stuck to it pretty much to the tee. I even find
it hard to write much about the film because it was so bland and just
didn't really offer much at all. You will predict every twist, you will
see every death coming, and you will not be shocked by the ending at
all. 

I tend to like these kinds of movies so I was willing to forgive a lot
of the film's clichés, but it got to the point where it just felt like
the film makers were going down a list of horror movie clichés and
checking them off as they made the movie. It's not the worst movie
ever, it looks good, the acting is good enough, and a few of the kills
weren't bad. However there just isn't enough here to warrant watching
it over many similar films that are much better. "Friend Request" is
simply a film that is so Luke warm that it's hard to think of much good
things or bad things about it.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Cyber based horror has become quite a popular sub-genre in the last
couple of years, 2015's Unfriended being the other example that comes
to mind. Friend Request is directed by Simon Verhoeven (No relation to
Robocop director Paul), and is his first directorial feature that is
not a comedy, and in the English language.

Laura (Alycia Debnam-Carey) is a popular college student who is highly
active on social media, which includes her Facebook account (totalling
over 800 friends). She then receives a friend request from Marina Mills
(Liesl Ahlers) a classmate she barely knows who has no Facebook
friends. Out of pity she accepts the request. After being messaged
constantly by Marina she decides to lie about going out for her
birthday in order to avoid her, however photos from the evening end up
on Facebook and soon after Marina attacks Laura at school before
filming herself committing suicide, which is posted all over Facebook.
Following the suicide Laura and her friends come under attack from a
demonic force that appears to be Marina out for revenge.

Friend Request is a pleasantly surprising horror feature, which is
well-acted by the ensemble. The dialogue between the characters is
quite natural and creates a feeling of camaraderie between Laura and
her friendship group in the opening scenes of the film. The overarching
themes regarding our reliance on social media and how the platforms can
manage and manipulate our lives are quite cleverly staged for the most
part. Watching Laura's social media being hijacked creates a realistic
parallel with stories that are relatable for us watching. Sure maybe
when it happens to us it isn't a cyber-demon we went to college with,
but having a Facebook Page which serves as an outlet for our thoughts,
memories and, well, lives being hacked and seeing spam being sent from
a source masquerading under the guise of our identity is an upsetting
experience for most. We now see social media accounts as an extension
of ourselves, and each other, and Friend Request uses this parallel to
make the haunting Laura is experiencing relatable to the audience.
However Despite this praise Friend Request suffers from one rather
major flaw, it isn't scary. It's certainly jumpy, and had me leaping a
couple of times with its scary demons occasionally popping out like
demented Whack-a-moles. But it fails to create a sense of dread, or
withhold an unsettling atmosphere that makes a great horror movie. The
concept of fusing witchcraft with modern technology is quite
interesting, but has been covered in previous films to better effect
and in the final act Friend Request throws aside any attempt of being a
disturbing social commentary in lieu of illogical narrative choices,
that I will not disclose to any who wish to see the film. The music in
the film is scored by Gary Go and he does a fine job instilling a
chilling layer of texture in the latter parts of the movie.

Friend Request is an entertaining, thoughtful, film. But it lacks
further detail to make it essential viewing, along with not being
unsettling enough to be scary on a baser level. Having left the cinema
I, in an absent minded fashion, checked my Facebook page almost
immediately without thinking, which merited a chuckle. While there is
clearly some observant commentary in the film it doesn't transcend into
horror at any point, which is a missed opportunity, but it is still
relevant enough to entertain for 90 minutes or so if you're in the mood
for a jump-scare or two.

Review by Alexander Halsall, for more reviews of the latest films
follow my blog at thebeestheysting.wordpress.com/reviews/
<|_=00=_|>
I feared the worst for this movie from the very first minutes, but I
still truly wanted to give it a chance until the end. Despite some
mind-bogglingly unforgivably stupid scenes you want to think that maybe
somehow they can turn this crap-fest around in the end, so that it
makes sense. They don't and it doesn't.

This is the kind of movie that will actually make you upset that you
wasted over an hour of your life in it. Unless you're something like
16, entirely swayed by baseless emotions and not too brightly lit. Only
then might it be terrible for you, and that's the only way I can
explain the surprisingly good average rating on IMDb.

Certainly some actually talented people were involved with the
production: both the visual and audio design and FX are pretty good,
and that's what makes this somewhat of a tragedy. You know, because not
a grain of that talent is to be found in the writing, acting or
direction.

Watch only if for whatever reason you really want to annoy yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror movies about the evils of social media tend to be as transparent
and sophomoric as the audiences they are intended for, and after seeing
the abortion that was "Unfriended", I expected less than nothing from a
film with a similar premise. How shocked was I to find that this film
didn't suck, and actually did some very clever things despite being a
movie about fake online friend lists. The acting was good to great, the
SFX was extremely well done and nicely implemented, the script was
written by people who know how real teens are supposed to talk (with
swear words and sarcasm that isn't usually found in children's movies),
and the story just wasn't awful, and I mean that in the best way
possible. When you expect nothing and are still disappointed, it makes
you wonder why you bothered watching the movie in the first place (as
was the case with Unfriended). But this film does a great job of not
being made for children, is often clever in the best way, and some of
the events that transpire are the exact opposite of what I would have
expected. Overall, I enjoyed my time with this movie. It's not a
masterpiece, and it won't win any awards, but it was enjoyable. In the
end, any movie that can just be enjoyed as it is is a winner in my
book.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of horror. Generally, I'll watch every horror film that
released in theater, so last night I went to see Friend Request. I
didn't know it was opening night either and there were about 6 other
people there. I walked in a couple minutes late during the intro
sequence and found myself confused as I watched about three to five
minutes of Facebook snapshots set to weird pop music. The movie then
started, I guess, and that feeling of confusion never subsided. It got
right into the plot and completely skipped any character development. I
didn't care at all whether the lead character, or any other character
in the film for that matter, lived or died. I didn't understand the
motivation of the antagonist and it wasn't ever really explained.
Apparently she was a witch or something similar and had magical powers
for some reason. She wanted to kill all of the main characters friends
for no reason other than she felt lonely, I think. I don't even know.
The ending was even more jumbled and nonsensical. By the time the
credits rolled, nothing was explained whatsoever. This was by far the
worst film I've seen in theaters in recent memory. In fact, I don't
remember ever seeing anything worse. Spare yourself the pain and save
yourself two hours. I'd rather mow the lawn or something than have to
sit through Friend Request again.
<|_=00=_|>
We were looking for a movie to watch that night and we couldn't find
nothing. I finally stopped on this one, expecting it to be a kind of
"so bad it's good" horror film or for the least, something we could
have fun of It turned out that it was actually not bad at all. Sure,
that's not the horror movie of the year, but I still found some
satisfaction watching it. The actors are good, the direction also.
There's a kind of thrill at the beginning, but at some point it becomes
very predictable. Still, I was pleasantly surprised by that movie, and
it didn't turned out to be the joke I thought it would be. It was well
done and I think it's worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I swear I've seen this film before. 

Girl meets creepy girl, creepy girl more than she seems. creepy girl
haunts girl. girl cries. girl dies (or becomes new creepy girl).

Recycled plot with face book

And I'm sorry, but if i was a taxi driver and i had some teenage girl
bleeding out in the back of the car. i would definitely not drop her
off outside a spooky abandoned factory by herself.

apparently my review isn't long enough to submit so ill fill it with a
pointless sentence that doesn't really need to be here along with a
couple of cliché 'its in the mirror behind you' jump scares. quick turn
around, it'll probably be gone by the time you do. wait, sorry, now its
in front of you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a spin-off of the 2014 film 'Unfriended'. So there's no
comparison between them But you can't stop people doing that,
particularly saying which version they liked the most. For me, I
enjoyed the other one which was a bit different than usual in the same
themed films. This one was not a single day event based film. It was
stretched and developed, especially for the film characters to give
more depth in the storytelling. A brief flashback in the beginning, and
then comes back to the present with twist and turns in the tale.

Largely based on facebook culture of the youngsters and the filmmakers
applied the same old horror film formula to the rest. For some viewers
it will work, particularly facebook fans, I guess. But this was an
average film. Everything was already seen before in different film and
you are only seeing it which is associated with social media, that's
all.

A German film, but made in English language and cast. The actors were
decent, but in some case I was not impressed. There were many flaws,
but surely they all can be explained where the film did not do that
exactly as it should have even stretched further. That's the point, for
being too casual, so the film looked like one of those B category
horror-thriller from the past. For watching it once, okay. That
includes if you have seen the 2014 film or not, because it is
completely different and not fresh enough to impress us.

4/10
