
This movie was a great boost to my psyche as someone who has watched my
own mother lose her ability to be the fascinating and clever woman she
once was. The performances of Alec Baldwin and Ms. Stewart really
impressed me. Julianne Moore is always good. 

If you have lived with the loneliness and the torture of watching
someone you love lose his or her mind this movie may just give you the
strength to go on.

Julianne Moore's performance is particularly compassionate. This movie
depicts an excruciating illness, but also illuminates the heroes who
emerge and the grace which is possible despite loss.
<|_=00=_|>
It probably goes without saying, but in my opinion "Still Alice" is
right up there among this year's best pictures.

And what ultimately makes author Lisa Genova's debut bestselling novel
so personal, yet so universal and identifiable in it's messages, are
the performances. Alec Baldwin and Kristen Stewart are a part of a
strong supporting cast, that will leave a lasting impression in your
mind and it will be more than deserved. Both of their characters were
so real - warm, supportive and earthly. And while both Baldwin and
Stewart have taken the occasional misstep in their respective pasts,
both of them once again showed without a doubt their acting abilities
and scope, a word linguistics professor Dr. Alice Howland used, albeit
with great difficulties, to describe her daughter Lydia (played by
Stewart) in one point of the film.

And what a performance by Julianne Moore that was! She essentially made
an already rich character in Alice, a frankly too young Alzheimer's
disease patient, who also happens to be a renown linguistics professor,
even more dimensional and rich. Moore's Alice is a strong, intelligent
woman when we first meet her at her birthday at the beginning of the
film. At that moment, Moore is confident and full of purpose. As she
gets diagnosed with a rare form of Alzheimer's disease, that her
children might have inherited from her, and time goes by, Alice becomes
a shadow of herself, whose mental health deteriorates at an alarmingly
fast rate. And that is the part that Moore portrayed with such skill
and graceful pain, that the viewer can't help but get irreversibly
emotionally involved with her character. We feel for her, we cry with
her, we wish she would get better, although it is clear that is sadly
not going to happen. And Moore's Alice knows it as well. And that makes
the journey through her story even more challenging, difficult and
painful for the viewer. Or as Beverly Beckham of The Boston Globe put
it "This is Alice Howland's story, for as long as she can tell it".

The film was directed and adapted by Richard Glatzer and Wash
Westmoreland, who share both the writing and directing duties on almost
all of their projects to date. The two somehow complete each other and
find the balance, that is needed to tell such a delicate story in a
manner, which can do it proper justice.

I will probably be the only one saying this, but I thought the score
was tremendous as well. Kudos goes to composer Ilan Eshkeri, who did an
amazing job on the film. The music is often intense and minimalistic,
it feels like it is just an addition to the already rich environment
the characters find themselves in and I would love to see at least a
nomination at the Oscars for Eshkeri, although I highly doubt it.

So, to wrap it up in a nutshell: Still Alice is a wonderful film, an
intimate and fascinating study in the field of family drama, and one of
the year's best. I definitely hope to see some awards buzz mainly
around the cast - both Alec Baldwin and Kristen Stewart deserve it for
their delicate and supportive portrayal of husband John and youngest
daughter Lydia, respectively, who never gave up on Moore's Alice. And
Julianne Moore - well, what can I say - her brutally sad and honest
portrayal of Alice deserves to go down in the books of top-notch acting
and she will reap the fruits of her work a long time from now (well,
mostly, at the end of February, I hope).

So it is a nine out of ten stars from me, only because I felt there
could have been more screen time for the other children in the Howland
family, and therefore the film could have been at least 10-15 minutes
longer. 

But solely on Julianne Moore, Alec Baldwin and Kristen Stewart's
impeccable acting, I say this film is among the very best in the
subject and also among the best titles this year. 

My grade: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)

It's hard to put into words why "Still Alice" from writer/directors
Richard Glatzer and Wash Westermoreland is as effective as it is. A
cinematic experience that will pull you through the ringer, similar to
other tearjerking efforts like "Terms of Endearment" or "Stepmom," the
film is a heartbreaking measurement of storytelling that is one of the
surprising gems of the year. Helmed by a magnificent performance by
Julianne Moore, "Still Alice" dodges most of the cliché tropes of
disease-ridden dramas with spunk and warmth. It's not just about the
struggle of Alice (Moore), it's also an in- depth and informative
medical drama that not only breaks your heart, but provide valuable
information and sensitivity to anyone who may know or will know someone
in the future.

The film tells the story of Alice, a brilliant professor that is
diagnosed with early on-set Alzheimer's disease at the age of 50.
Terrified of the future, and the fear of forgetting the life she's
created, "Still Alice" reflects not only on the ramifications of
knowing such knowledge of your eventual demise, but how it affects
those who know and love you. If your loved one was stricken with such
an illness, would you, rather could you stand by their side no matter
what? It's easy to answer with the socially acceptable response until
you're faced with such a question.

"Alice" inhabits a simplicity that almost feels too uncomplicated and
transparent to warrant a positive take but alas, here we are. Glatzer
and Westermoreland create a sensitive, well-intentioned examination of
a woman struggling with early on-set Alzheimer's disease. May sound
like shameless, factory-standard Oscar bait, but its unlike any movie
you'll see this year, dealing with delicate subject matter in a tender
way. They cover different angles of the topic at hand without getting
too preachy. Of course, this is mostly due to the brilliance of
four-time Academy Award nominee Moore, but she's not the only one on
her A-game. Co-star Alec Baldwin, who plays Alice's husband John,
showcases one of his most layered portrayals yet. Internalized,
disturbed, but very compelling in the way he chooses to execute his
feelings. Baldwin's mannerisms and antics have not been put to better
use in quite sometime.

Kristen Stewart continues to revitalize her image as an actress.
"Clouds and Sils Maria" and "Camp X-Ray" are terrific examples of her
talents put to great use but what she achieves as Lydia, Alice's
youngest daughter is nothing short of spectacular. Glatzer and
Westermoreland understand her abilities and limitations but heighten
them to stunning results. If Stewart continues on this path, she could
easily become one of our greatest working actresses. She's certainly
one of the most exciting at the moment. Stewart is a gift.

After struggling to find her voice in the movies, Kate Bosworth hits on
all cylinders as Anna. As does Hunter Parrish, fondly remembered from
"It's Complicated." He's aching for his big, breakout role. 

I guess it's time to worship the aura of Julianne Moore. It's easy to
dismiss my take on her work since I'm unapologetically a Moore
enthusiast (loud and proud). Three of her Oscar nominations for "Boogie
Nights," "Far from Heaven," and "The Hours" are all worthy citations,
arguably winning performances that Oscar passed over. I've been able to
separate her overall brilliance from some of the choices she's made in
roles over the years. "The English Teacher" is an attempt to be change
it up, "The Forgotten" is a horror/mystery that lacks either of those
words, and "The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio" is wellthat movie from
2005. Julianne Moore is a revelation of epic proportions. Bold,
provocative, and emotionally gripping, she delivers one of her
strongest performances to date. She's takes a daring stand to be
vulnerable, and hits an amazing high. A destined winner of Best
Actress.

The film can feel like a factory-standard creation passed over by the
TV networks at times, mostly due to the style in which its shot.
Cinematographer Denis Lenior keeps things straightforward but isn't
adventurous enough to stand out in the crowd. Film Editor Nicolas
Chaudeurge should also take a few cues from the playbook of Pietro
Scalia, Stephen Mirrione, and Richard Marks, editors that know how to
milk a scene for everything its worth. There are moments that will
surely create a weep-a-thon in your seat, but there are missed
opportunities to really push the audience over the edge. Composer Ilan
Eshkeri however, takes his cues from famed musicians like John Williams
and Howard Shore to swell the tearducts to maximum capacity.

Overall, "Still Alice" is a very rewarding experience, wrapped in a
blanket of emotions held by Julianne Moore and Co.. It's one of those
rare films that makes you think and gives you a debate to have with
your loved ones. A deep, human movie that doesn't shy away from baring
its soul and the vast complexities that come with it. Just plain great.
<|_=00=_|>
Still Alice is a realistic and emotional story of a woman living with
Alzheimer's disease. Julianne Moore successfully shows the struggle,
confusion, anger, pain and isolation of having such a disease through
her incredible performance. She allows the audience to see what having
Alzheimer's could possibly be like. This film also has an amazing
screenplay, a screenplay that is raw and honest. There is also a great
ensemble performance from the cast, featuring Alec Baldwin as the
supportive and loving husband. The movie definitely makes the viewer
think deeply about aspects of life such as memories, family, loss and
bewilderment which are all addressed in Still Alice. See this film for
a moving story, but mostly for Moore's miraculous performance. It
wouldn't be a surprise if she won Best Actress in the upcoming Academy
Awards.
<|_=00=_|>
"So live in the moment I tell myself, it really is all I can do, live
in the moment."

Still Alice is a film that touches delicate subject matters, which
sometimes don't make for a compelling watch. It's hard to sit down and
watch someone suffering from Alzheimer's Disease and witness their slow
deterioration as they gradually lose their mind. Somehow, Julianne
Moore gives such a powerful performance that makes this delicate theme
worth your while. She carries this film, and elevates it from your
standard mental illness movie. Julianne Moore is on the top of her game
and following her strong performance in Maps to the Stars, she delivers
an authentic portrayal of a woman trying to come to grips with her
terrible diagnosis. The film intelligently centers on her in a very
authentic way instead of focusing on the rest of her family, like so
many films tend to do when the character has hit rock bottom with their
mental disease. As the title suggests, the focus is on Alice and her
character is fully developed even when she is at her lowest. As an
audience we sometimes tend to look away or find ways to ignore people
with mental illness, and many films do so by focusing on the reaction
of the rest of the family or on the loved ones as if the main character
has lost his or her personality. But we are reminded in this film that
Alice is still Alice, and Julianne Moore makes sure we come to grips
with this. Julianne Moore will probably be nominated for her lead
performance here and it wouldn't surprise me if she wins her first
Oscar after her fifth nomination. She is long overdue.

It's no surprise that this film was delivered in such an authentic way
when you take into consideration that the co-director, Richard Glatzer,
suffers from ASL and can't speak himself. If a film wants to deliver a
powerful and empathetic film about mental illness, then there is no
better way to do so than having someone who is experiencing this first
hand. Glatzer, who has co-directed his previous films with Wash
Westmoreland, reunites with him once again co-writing the adapted
screenplay from Lisa Genova's novel. I know the issue has been explored
many times before and one could assume it enters familiar territory,
but Moore's portrayal of the character makes this film stand out from
others. For people who have gone through similar issues with a family
member or close friend, Still Alice hits home, but it does so in a
compassionate way. It reminds us how fragile our minds and life can be.
Having Moore play a highly intelligent linguistic professor makes this
all the more shocking as we see how she struggles with the disease. The
most emotional moment of the film comes when Moore's character is
giving a touching speech about how she is dealing with the disease. It
was a powerful moment in the movie and Moore deserves all the
recognition she's been getting for her performance. Alec Baldwin and
Kristen Stewart both give strong supporting performances as well. The
entire film rings true in its exploration of mental illness, and the
performances never go over the top. Everything about this film rings
true despite the delicate themes that are touched. The subject matter
might not be appealing for most audiences and they may find the film
tedious, but for me it hits home and I found it to be a compelling
drama.
<|_=00=_|>
I had already marked this movie down as a "no" when the cinema preview
club we attend showed it this morning. And I'm very glad they did.

Few movies about Alzheimer's show things almost entirely from the
perspective of the victim, and even fewer try to grapple with her
internal thoughts and feelings as the disease progresses. Still Alice
does just that.

Taking an exceptionally verbal and smart person and giving her early
onset Alzheimer's and watching how she deals with it and how she feels
about it made this an exceptional film. So does the always-excellent
Julianne Moore, who outdoes herself in an Oscar-worthy performance.

The movie's full of highlights: the Skypeing between mom and daughter
Kristin Stewart, the relatively healthy Julianne leaving a video for
her much sicker self to discover; the question only one person asks:
"How does it make you feel?" And extra credit for the double use of
Lyle Lovett's "If I Had a Boat."
<|_=00=_|>
In Hollywood, medical conditions that are devastating in real life are
magically transformed into episodes that the leading characters meet
with stout resolve, a positive attitude, and a quite, sanitized unseen
ending. So it is with this movie.

The main character is diagnosed early in the movie with early-onset
Alzheimer's. The rest of the movie is about her gradual decline and her
family's reaction to it. There are some interesting possibilities in
the plot, such as the pull of the husband's career and the developments
of one daughter's career, but they are not developed well and simply
look shallow and contrived. The movie ends about where Alzheimer's
would become a real strain on the family, but as always with a
Hollywood depiction, the tragedy that is to follow is hidden. Real
Alzhimer's patients forget who their families are, scream mindlessly
about nothing in particular, foul themselves, cannot feed themselves.
The bodies are there but the minds are not. The person that once was is
gone, but the outward shell is there reminding us what once was and
playing havoc with our emotions. Only a sanitized hint of all that is
present in this movie.

The dialog is mostly predictable, sometimes overdone and sermonizing.
The characters are all shallow, even the main character.

The intention is good. The acting is excellent. The overall execution
is weak. Not worth the time unless you enjoy seeing good talent wasted
on a weak script.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on Lisa Genova's 2007 bestselling novel of the same name, 'Still
Alice' is a saddening, but beautifully made film, that stays on your
mind even after it concludes. Its A Well-Made Film with Strong
Performances! 

'Still Alice' Synopsis: Alice Howland, happily married with three grown
children, is a renowned linguistics professor who starts to forget
words. When she receives a devastating diagnosis, Alice and her family
find their bonds tested.

'Still Alice' is about a women's journey coming to an abrupt end.
Richard Glatzer & Wash Westmoreland's Adapted Screenplay is
consistently engaging, although difficult to watch, at most times. The
protagonist's journey with her family offers moments of pure love &
sadness. You feel for the characters & particularly, for Alice. Glatzer
& Westmoreland's Direction is under-stated, but impressive.
Cinematography captures the bleakness, exceedingly well. Editing is
just perfect. 

Performance-Wise: Julianne Moore brings Alice to life, with a splendid
performance. She becomes Alice & completes her tale, magnificently.
Alec Baldwin, as Alice's supportive husband, redefines "control" in
performance. He's restrained & patient all through. Kristen Stewart, as
Alice's rebellious younger daughter, is natural. Kate Bosworth, as
Alice's older daughter, is in true form, as well. 

On the whole, 'Still Alice' is an experience, that demands to be felt.
Two Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
Still Alice tells the story of a Columbia cognitive psychologist
diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease played by Julianne Moore
who in my opinion gave the best performance of her career.

Kristen Stewart and Alec Baldwin also give very good performances and I
think that Ms.Stewart successfully shed the "Twilight" vampire
stereotype.

Just like any disease, your fight is as strong as your support system.
Not only Alice's but Julianne Moore's support system is strong as well
with a supporting cast of Kristen Stewart, Alec Baldwin, Kate Bosworth
and Hunter Parrish, and a score that never has the audience wondering
about their emotions but has them focused on Alice's.

An amazing movie I recommend it to everyone
<|_=00=_|>
The real depredations of Alzheimer's disease and its toll on the
families of the afflicted are not on display in the flawed drama.

"Iris," the 2001 film that starred Judi Dench as British novelist Iris
Murdoch, was particularly frank about the effects of the illness, both
mental and physical. It also highlighted the special tragedy when
someone who has built a career as a communicator falls prey to the
affliction.

"Still Alice" should, by contrast, carry the label "Sanitized for your
protection." Everyone involved is highly attractive, articulate,
compassionate and virtually devoid of any flaws that would mark them as
human.

What's left is a sensitive and appealing performance by Moore as
Alice's mind fades from early onset Alzheimer's; her character has just
turned 50. As for the rest of the story, adapted by directors and
co-writers Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland from Lisa Genova's
2007 novel, it has plot holes large enough to accommodate a Mack truck.

Quite sensibly, for instance, Alice's three children undergo genetic
testing. Daughter Anna tests positive. That turn in the drama leads --
nowhere.

Another daughter, seems to be making bad choices both in her romantic
life and as a budding stage actress. What happens next? We're not told.

Husband John bears every crisis with a preternatural calm, even when
he's planning to pull up stakes from New York and move to a job at
Minnesota's Mayo Clinic. Surely he must have strong emotions about his
wife's illness. But, if so, they're never shown.

Having always been defined by her intellect and adept use of language,
Alice is sometimes reduced to making speeches about her frustration.
"Sometimes I can see the words hanging in front of me and I can't reach
them, and I don't know what I'm going to lose next."

She learns to get by using her cellphone as a reminder of tasks, and
the online game "Words With Friends" to shore up her vocabulary.

Alice has also made a video giving her future self instructions on how
to take her own life. Her eventual attempt to do so goes awry. Yet any
moral or even dramatic ramifications from this line of conduct are
ignored in the movie's final -- and perhaps most glaring -- default.

The 3/10 was for the wasted acting
