
Pan is one of those films where it's hard to pinpoint what is wrong
because the answer is basically everything. I'm confused as to how they
managed to turn such a simple story into such a convoluted mess.

At his core, Peter Pan is just a boy who escapes to a magical fantasy
land because he doesn't want to grow up. In Neverland he leads a crew
of similarly disenfranchised kids, plays games with Indians, swims with
mermaids, and fights pirates.

Simple right? Well not according to Joe Wright and the producers of
this film. For some reason they felt the need to cram in every single
cliché possible in order to 'modernize' the story despite the fact that
the themes in Barrie's stories were already timeless.

Levi Miller stumbles here and there but he was well cast as Peter.
However the script doesn't support the role. At certain points he
becomes secondary in his own story. His desires don't move the plot
forward and after the first 20 minutes he has very little to do except
"learn how to fly". We never seem him turn into the character we know
as Peter Pan except for the fact that *spoilers* he flies at the end.
And don't even get me started on 'The Chosen One' thing.

Tiger Lily, played by Rooney Mara, is bland, and I'm not talking about
the color of her skin. She's your typical warrior princess and for some
reason they try to set up a possible romance between her and Hook.
She's basically around to be walking talking exposition.

Jackman also does a good job, but his character, Blackbeard, isn't
interesting. His motivations are paper thin. He wants to mine some
fairy dust in order to live forever which doesn't even make sense
because Neverland supposed to be a place where people don't age.
Blackbeard is just shoehorned in there so they could have a villain
other than Hook.

This brings me to one of the most pointless things in the film: Hook
being Peter's ally. It doesn't amount to anything. You never get a
sense of conflict between the two. You keep waiting for a point when
Hook is going to betray Peter but it never happens. You want to see
that scene where Peter cuts off his hand and feeds it to the crock, but
it never happens. Hook's only motivation in this film is to escape and
go home. He doesn't seem like he could turn into the devious Captain we
know. At the end of the film, Hook and Pan are still friends and they
just hint at a possible conflict in the sequel with a throw away line.
Also, if you're a kid and this is your introduction to the character of
Hook the 'twist' will go right over your head.

And why is Hook American? Who made this decision? 

Another problem with Pan is the over-use and reliance of CGI. It looks
fake, especially Peter's flying. Peter Pan was better animated in 1953,
not in terms of graphical fidelity, but in motion. He had weight, he
had grace, and he was agile. In Pan he just kind of floats like he's
being dragged by a mouse cursor.

When you stretch the rules of reality too far it becomes unbelievable
even in a world like Neverland. You have to have rules. In Pan there
are flying pirate ships. Why? How do they fly? It's never explained.
The ships can fly both in the real world and Neverland. There is no
consistency.

I'm giving this film a 1 out of 10 because they squandered so much
potential. The source material is so rich and this is the best they
could come up with? I think a live action Peter Pan film could be
successful but if they ignore the themes that make the story
interesting in the first place it just won't resonate with the
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Pan bears a lot of similarities to other adventure films, family
animation and even role-playing games. It packs myriad of visual antics
across the journey of self-discovery. However, it's also painfully one
dimensional and predictable, using the "chosen one" plot to a fault.
While it's admittedly aesthetically pleasing, this is not the
innovative origin story it's advertised to be.

In a world tormented by pirates, one child must discover his destiny.
You've seen this before. Some angles have been changed, but this is
typical Peter's adventure to Neverland. It's so overused, one might
find half the script in Final Fantasy games. Not to mention it's
riddled with fantasy genre cliché and uninspiring romance subplot.

To their credit, the actors do a fine job. Hugh Jackman as Blackbeard
is a good antagonist, he looks the part by carrying the character with
ominous charisma, either it's by his flamboyant dialogues or even
timely singing. He can appear funny yet still threatening. Well, as
threatening as a villain in family flick can be.

While Blackbeard looks fit for Hook's replacement, Hook himself is
played by Garrett Hedlund, who ironically tries too hard to be young
Hugh Jackman. His delivery is forced to create a suave persona, but
most of the times he just looks out of place. Levi Miller as Peter
handles himself pretty well. The story focuses heavily on this boy's
fate, and although he can seem rough at some scenes, he brings a
commendable performance as the lead.

Graphical prowess plays important role, almost too much, and on its
better parts Pan definitely has the stylish charm of fantasy vista.
Setting is filled with colorful designs and details, although CGI takes
the helm on most cases. Its soundtracks are splendid, it simply doesn't
let go. From subtle chimes, loud symphony and even shanty version of
popular songs, the audio is brilliant.

Pan would've been great if it didn't copy so many elements from other
movies. In nearly every scene, there's a hint of Pirates of Caribbean,
Mad Max and multitude of classic Disney flicks. The straightforward
plot doesn't help either, it's tedious to see the predictable
developments ahead. Ancient prophecies, letter from the past and hidden
power manifestation are tired gimmicks. Please, you know he's gonna fly
at some point.

For a movie that looks so appealing, Pan never really takes flight. One
might find happy thoughts on the visual and songs, but the CGI charm
and adventure gimmicks will not last through its boring plot.
<|_=00=_|>
If there was a more awkward movie than Pan released in the last few
years I'd certainly like to know about it as Joe Wright's big budgeted
wannabe franchise starter is a lavishly coloured and extravagant
picture that lacks knowledge of what it actually wants to be or who in
fact it's aimed at and judging by the films flopping at the box office
the world over, it seems as though audiences too struggled to figure
out who should be watching this revamping of J.M Barrie's classic
material or why they should be watching it.

Tonally all over the place and with a story that seems to meander about
the motions until a highly lacking finale and lack of answers regarding
certain story questions (a glaring one being how Hook and Pan in fact
become enemies as they are adventures together here), for the first
time in his quietly impressive directing career Wright seems completely
lost within his narrative and fails to liven up proceedings despite
throwing every known colour onto the screen, plopping in Nirvana songs
and letting many of his actors ham it up to level 11 to try and cover
up the fact Pan's story is actually rather dull in a world that should
be anything but.

Our Pan here is played by newcomer Levi Miller and the poor young
performer labours in his first major turn injecting Peter with neither
the charm, smarts nor emotion that was needed for the role. When you
consider however how his cast alongside a horribly miscast double act
of Garrett Hedlund (who continues to frustrate as a lead actor) and the
beyond bad Rooney Mara, the child performer didn't really stand much of
a chance. The films only saving grace acting wise is Hugh Jackman who
has a blast playing Blackbeard the fearsome pirate who will stop at
nothing to collect that sought after pixie dust but while he has fun it
still doesn't make a whole lot of sense having Blackbeard in this
beloved tale.

Whilst normally it would not be something called out for by the masses
it would've actually been nice for Pan to stick more closely to the
original Peter Pan story that has enchanted readers and viewers for
decades upon decades and while its commendable for a big budget film to
take such a risk on a new take on a well-trod property, Pan is a
stinging reminder of what can go wrong when money is thrown all over
the place and scripts seem doctored to tick off as many set piece wish
lists as possible and for the first time in his career Joe Wright has
crafted an almost irredeemably bad piece of cinematic entertainment.

All those seeking a Peter Pan fix are much better off seeking out a
copy of Disney's beloved animated take or even the similarly styled
Steven Spielberg event Hook.

1 ½ awkwardly used Nirvana song out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
When this was first announced they sold it as being different and man
the tone of the early trailers just really made me feel like they were
going to go deep and abstract. The trailer song made me shiver. My dumb
ass thought it might even be something like "The adventures of Baron
Munchausen" full of metaphors and abstractions like "What dreams may
come". Like it was going tell a more emotional story about the
relationship of the main actors. 

Nope boring run of the mill peter pan adaptation with a couple
characters swapped to claim uniqueness. Damn I just rewatched the first
trailer and it totally sold me on a different story. 

What makes matters worse is the world is very well designed and there's
several hints at what could have been a really trippy adventure, but
for some reason they went incredibly cheap on the CGI which in several
spots is just unbearably bad. 

The story doesn't really make any sense. "chosen one"? For what? and
what exactly does he provide? He can control fairies? but the fairies
were perfectly capable of throwing a couple pirates around. The
relationship between Blackbeard and his mother was really dumb and
illogical, there's so much more they could have done with that. In
general it just felt crap and plodded along and then just rolled over
at the end. 

Man I'm just so angry. I would have killed to have Terry Gilliam to do
this, or David fincher, Darren Aronofsky. It sucks because Hugh Jackman
was wasted. Thats the one thing they got right. The design and
portrayal of Blackbeard was cool, but his story was so Blasé. I liked
the inclusion of modern music but instead of making it a theme with a
story nope you get one cool song and then generic music for the rest of
the film.(I know there was another one but it sucked) 

Damn you Warner Bros for greenlighting this garbage.

Im giving this a 1/10 because of how insultingly wasteful they were
with such a great idea. I've seen better execution of concepts like
this out of 50k indie movies. When we talk about twist of fairy tale
concepts I have to give the nod to Maleficent. Again the trailer was
chilling and though the movie had innumerable flaws it was the mature
emotional experience we were looking for. Guess now were just going to
have to wait for the Fables trilogy they'll inevitably screw up.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my nephew and niece to see this movie this past week, and one
thing was clearly noticeable. The movie is a bit to overwhelming for
small kids. 

However, if you don't go to this movie to see a funny and uplifting
'Hook' remake, but instead go to see a more deep and thrilling
retelling of a childhood tale, you will be most pleasantly surprised.
The movie, from this point of view, is fantastic. 

I feel bad that it has received such harsh reviews from parents that
apparently took their small kids to a movie without first at least
watching the trailer. Its a bit darker then its predecessors, but is
clearly shown that way through the trailer.

Let me put it this way, if the trailer looks like a movie you want to
see, you will not be disappointed here.
<|_=00=_|>
Pan has all the foundation to make a fantastic prequel for the Peter
Pan story, sadly the foundation doesn't have much on it and what's
there is shaky.

The main issue I had with this film is that it seemed like it couldn't
make up it's mind on whether it wanted to cater to children with goofy
and antic like behavior from the characters, or offer up serious and
gritty story telling for the adults. It flip flops from one to the
other from scene to scene and it's very noticeable. The incredibly
cringe-worthy use of "Smells Like Teen Spirit" in the Neverland
introduction scene represents my point the best.

I wondered all throughout the movie why they had given James Hook an
American Accent, I have seen other reviews say that it seemed like the
Director/Writer wanted Garret Hedlund to channel some Indiana Jones for
this role. They are right, but I am baffled as to why the Production
wanted him too. It makes no sense for what we know he will eventually
become.

This movie isn't ALL bad, however. Levi Miller as Pan is a lot better
than I ever expected him to be, the kid has some talent and it's going
to be interesting to see how he develops as an actor if he sticks with
it. Rooney Mara puts in a great effort as Tiger Lily too. Hugh Jackman
tries REALLY hard to lift this movie. He is easily the top performance
with his Blackbeard and it was easy to see that he enjoyed the freedom
of the character. In fact, they should get Jackman to play Hook in the
next movie. He'd be brilliant.

Shout out to Adeel Akhtar as Mr. Smee. Outside of Jackman he gets the
most laughs in the film and was a great casting choice.

If you have kids then take them to see it, they will like it but be
prepared because you probably won't.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always loved Peter Pan. I loved every single story told about
him and watched every movie involving him including Once Upon A Time
with Hook and Pan but when I saw this movie I was like "What the hell
IS this? Where is the ACTUAL plot? There is just too many questions
left unanswered. I am so disappointed because of this. If they are
going to make a sequel, AT LEAST leave answers this time and just
follow the original plot.

Pan is a 2015 American 3D fantasy action-adventure family film directed
by Joe Wright. The film is a prequel to Scottish author J. M. Barrie's
Peter Pan story, first staged in 1904. It serves as an alternative
origin story for Peter Pan and Captain Hook.

The story is basically about Peter, abandoned as an orphan, who gets
kidnapped by Blackbeard to mine for Pixie Dust so that Blackbeard can
live eternal youth. Blackbeard is also at war with the Red Indians and
a rebellion is taking place. It also shows the friendship Pan and Hook
had before they lead to what they are destined to be.
<|_=00=_|>
It's WWII London. Peter (Levi Miller) was left by his mother on the
doorstep of the Home for Boys and he's still waiting for her to return.
Kids have been disappearing. One night, pirates come to take Peter and
his friends away. Pirate leader Blackbeard (Hugh Jackman) has enslaved
the boys to mine Pixum, fairy dust, and looking to wipe out all
fairies. Peter is made to walk the plank and discovers that he is able
to fly. He escapes from Blackbeard with the help of James Hook (Garrett
Hedlund) and Smiegel. They are captured by Tiger Lily (Rooney Mara).
Recognizing the pan necklace from his mother, she reveals that Peter's
mother is Blackbeard's possession Mary. She had fallen in love with the
fairy prince and he is the child of their love.

I really like the start of this movie. Peter Pan is brash, mischievous
and heroic. I even like transferring the story to WWII which allows for
a fun dogfight in the skies of London. Then the movie goes to Neverland
and the problems start to pile up. I also like the wild colorful action
extravaganza. It does get repetitive during the climatic action scene
but the exuberance fits Neverland.

For some reason, the story forces Peter to turn into a self-doubting
taciturn. The flying story really hurts Peter's character development.
He turns into non-Peter Pan and not even the same character from the
first act. Blackbeard is a black-feathered peacock. He's not scary
enough. Garrett Hedlund is not flamboyant enough to be Hook. Rooney
Mara is perfectly fine as an action heroine but her pale white skin is
really distracting. They may as well paint her face as some kind of
warpaint like the Maori war paint. Her pale skin is too old Hollywood.
I can see a wild Peter Pan movie being made here but the little
problems overwhelm it.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon seeing the trailer I was hesitant that it might be good but I
decided to give it a shot and watched it during its premiere. 

And boy, was I surprised! 

I absolutely loved the simple things that foreshadow the events of the
actual story: James Hook using a hook in the mining scene, the ticktock
of the bomb that he placed to set Peter free, Tiger Lily scaring Hook
with the crocodile and many more. I have to give credit to the writer
with his different take on the Peter Pan story.

Also, the friendship between Hook and Peter was great, they got each
other's backs, with Hook saving Peter and vice-versa, kinda sad that
they'll eventually end up as enemies since this movie established that
relationship. 

Everyone was right for the role, Hugh Jackman was amazing as the
villain, how he looked here made me forget that he is Wolverine. Rooney
Mara was dashing in her Tiger Lily role and performed well even though
she was Caucasian in contrast to the natives. Garrett Hedlund played
this cocky, playboy-type, off-character Hook who always provides the
laughable comebacks. Levi Miller was great as Peter, that dude's going
places. 

Although, I have to note the lack of battle between Peter and
Blackbeard, since the prophecy stated that the former will defeat the
latter. They should have put at least a short duel between the two
because that'd be amazing. 

All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed the film, I don't care what the Rotten
Tomatoes rating or critics say!
<|_=00=_|>
've never hyped myself up for a movie more than Pan. I saw the trailer
the day it came out and watched every trailer since then. Well now I've
had my chance to watch it... And well...

The best part of the movie was the credits. The music is catchy...
That's about it. The animation and graphical affects were alright I
guess. And some parts of the story weren't too bad. However the amount
of plot holes made me want to cry, the relationship between Hook and
Tiger lily, and Hook and Pan, and Pan and Tiger Lily, and all of them
with Blackbeard was poor. The best character in it was Smeeh, but that
was only in the first half of the movie, so anything past that first
half for him was garbage. 

When I sat down and started watching it, I was disappointed by the
beginning, but I sat through it anyway, in hopes that the second half
would be phenomenal... And I can confirm it really wasn't. Nothing in
the film made any sense. Nothing was ever explored or explained.
Nothing was ever adopted on to get the main characters into their
positions before we get to the Peter Pan that everyone knows where it
is Pan vs Hook. There was none of that.

Hooks accent... Hooks freaking accent... Oh my god. It sounded so fake
it was painful. I hate writing this review, but I can honestly say I
don't think I've been more disappointed in the film... Whoever made the
trailers deserves the biggest pay rise ever, because the trailers did
look amazing, the trailer soundtrack was amazing. The movie did not
look amazing, the soundtrack was also not amazing...

That's another thing, WHY WAS THE FILM A MUSICAL?! I didn't sit down to
watch this so I could watch Blackbeard sing songs that hadn't been
invented yet. Because I think three songs were in this film and every
time I heard one, I was more tempted to turn it off.

Like I said, the graphics were good, the story telling wasn't that bad
and costume design was also pretty good and sets and stuff. But the
film as a whole makes me final thoughts 

5/10
