
I'm a big fan of Tom Cruise. He is a real old-fashioned film star,
generous with his fans on the red carpet and with real star power at
the box office. And I can happily sit down in front of just about any
one of his DVD's time and time again and still enjoy it. Unlike many
critics, I even enjoyed his last outing as Jack Reacher.

Unfortunately, and it pains me to say this but, his latest outing -
"Jack Reacher: Never Go Back" - is a bit dull.

Lee Child's Reacher has many years before turned his back on his
military past and wanders the country as a drifter righting wrongs
outside of the law. In this film, his military past again makes a major
("No, ex-Major") intrusion into his life. Potential love interest Major
Susan Turner (Colbie Smulders, from the "Avengers" world) is arrested
on trumped-up espionage charges and Cruise sets out to clear her name.
Along the way he accidentally (and rather too conveniently for the
plot) discovers that a paternity suit has been filed against him and
Reacher confronts the rebellious and light-fingered teenager Samantha
(Danika Yarosh, aged 18 playing 15).

Unfortunately the big-cheeses involved in the international arms
skulduggery are determined to tie up each and every loose end in their
intrigue, and that includes Reacher, Turner and young Samantha by
association. Needless to say, the villains - led by a one-man killing
machine (Patrick Heusinger) - haven't counted on Reacher's 'particular
set of skills'.

My problem with the film (after an entertaining opening) is that the
screenplay lumbers from standard thriller set-piece to standard
thriller set-piece in a highly predictable way. It's as if the scripts
from 20 different films have been stuck in a blender. Shadowy arms
dealing shenanigans: check; Cute teenager in peril: check; Gun fight on
a dockside: check; Rooftop chase: check.

Are all the individual set-pieces decently done? Yes, sure. But the
combination of these bits of action tapas really don't add up to a
satisfying meal. The story arc is almost non-existent as there is no
suspense in the 'investigation': the plot is all pretty well laid out
for you. 

Where there is some fun to be had is in the play-off between the born-
leader Reacher and the born-leader Turner, both trying to be top-dog in
the decision making. The romantic connection between the leads seems
almost plausible despite their 20 (TWENTY!) year age difference: this
is more down to how incredibly good Cruise still looks at age 54 (damn
him!). Turner makes a good female role-model right up to the point
where there is a confrontation in a hotel room and Turner backs down:
despite Cruise being the "hero" it would have been nice for female
equality for this face-off to have gone the other way.

The director is Edward Zwick, who helmed Cruise's more interesting
movie "The Last Samurai".

The trailer started off well and then progressed into general
mediocrity. Unfortunately - for me at least - the film lived up to the
trailer. Watchable, but not memorable.

(Agree? Disagree? For the graphical version of this review and to
comment please visit bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
My wife convinced me to go, even though i didn't not much like the
first Jack Reacher movie. I do like Tom cruise in general though.

The plot is very generic, i mean like we haven't seen something oh so
very similar a thousand times. No surprises along the way.

The action was extremely poor, Jack and his sidekick consistently not
carrying weapons even though their opponents are and even when they
beat down their opponents (who have guns) they don't then pick up the
gun and take it with them (ok maybe they did once). There was a scene
where Jack is fighting the professional killer, 

The dialog was boringly average, as if to just stretch out the movie,
most of it not really having much to do with the plot or moving the
movie along.

The girl is hyper annoying, keeps getting into trouble, Jack has to
save her yadda yadda yadda, except if Jack had acted as smart as he is
supposed to be, he would have made sure she didn't get into said
trouble in first place.

Worst movie i have been to in quite a while.
<|_=00=_|>
While the trailer gives too many of the best scenes away (as do
seemingly most Hollywood trailers of late), the second entry in the
Jack Reacher franchise fails in it's attempt to capitalize on the
momentum of the original. 

With the titular character ably portrayed by Tom Cruise as the
quintessential and confident bad-ass, the surrounding cast and
paint-by-numbers story-line struggle around his nucleus to present a
believable and involving action flick.

One of the issues that plagues the franchise is that the source
material portrays Reacher as 6'5" tall at a beefy 250 lbs, capable of
taking on 4-5 attackers at a time. Cruise is in great shape and appears
at least 10 years younger than his actual age but even with strategic
camera angles, at 5'7", it is fairly obvious that he is physically
outmatched when surrounded by 4 of his assailants. Yet much ass is
kicked with relative ease. This affects the realism meter as the film
progresses.

Another issue is the somewhat stilted dialogue and a few "Oh, come on,
that would never happen!" moments that elicited a few unintended laughs
from other audience members during the viewing I attended.

The supporting cast do their part in workman-like fashion and some of
the dialogue between Cruise's Reacher and Co-star Cobie Smulders'
Turner entertains and engages as they argue while being simultaneously
attracted to one another. Rounding out the cast as the chief
antagonist, Patrick Heusinger is an effective (if somewhat clichéd) ex-
Special Forces Psychopath who hunts Reacher throughout the film.

It's unclear at this point whether there will be a third film
instalment but based on early box office returns, a sequel is likely. I
hope they can take the best elements from the first film which had
better fight scenes, less stilted dialogue and fewer formulaic plot
devices. Seeing as the Jack Reacher Book series is currently at 21
novels, there should be a worthy successor in the Lee Child-penned
Canon to put the film franchise back in good stead the next time
around. 

If you are looking for a breezy action flick with low expectations
regarding plot twists or realism, Jack Reacher: Never Go Back fits the
bill.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read all of the Reacher books, I was one of those who cried
"What??!!" when Cruise was cast as Reacher, but I changed my tune when
I saw the first Reacher movie. I thought Cruise carried it off well.

So I was really looking forward to this next instalment . . . and what
a disappointment.

The difference between the Reacher stories and other so called
anti-hero stories is the realism that Lee Child brought to them. For
example, none of those long slugging punch ups, Lee Child made it clear
that a single punch would suffice and if not delivered correctly, then
there was a danger of broken hands etc. And they followed this ethos in
the first Reacher movie. But in this latest offering there was just
slugging match after slugging match after slugging match, with nothing
to show for it other than a cut above Reacher's eye. Where's the
bruising and swelling? I'm sure he got smashed on the arm by a pipe,
but there's nothing to show for it the next day when he's wearing his
t-shirt.

On top of that, there's a hell of a lot of running throughout the movie
- I'm surprised they didn't run to the toilet. This, with the camera
work and editing had a way of making the movie feel rushed. 

Finally, the script had one of the clever wit in the books.

All in all a disappointing follow up. Was it the Director? I think so.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Reacher: Never Go Back ought to be bi-lined "Never Go Forward".

This flick is firmly mired in 90's action "corniness". This seems to be
a "old" "new" trend. Revisiting past formula's that worked once upon a
time, with the hope they will work again, in the 21st century. 

Fact is, viewers have, for the most part, become more sophisticated.
For me, the new Jack Reacher is an anachronism. Its watchable but its
comes across as dated, "silly" and utterly implausible, even by
Hollywood stands. 

Jack floats around like an avenging wraith, solving crimes for the
military, whilst breezily moving in and out of military facilities, as
if he has been given a lifetime pass to a weird, uptight, country club.
Worse still, the antagonists come across as bumbling and inexplicably
foolish. His success is never in doubt.

The result is a film that's "light weight" entertainment at best. Its
not bad, as such, its just rather nondescript and not overly engaging.
Five out of ten from me.
<|_=00=_|>
It's just so so so bad. Cliché, No action and dreadful production.

I had heard about how bad this movie was from a friend, but since me
and some other guys were stranded in a shopping mall with nothing to do
for 3 hours, I decided to just let go and enjoy an action blockbuster
for once. I was so wrong. It's an atrocious piece of filmmaking, which
has literally EVERY cliché in it, from the stroppy teenager to the
Afghanistan reference to 'These people were under my command!!!!!!!' to
the person in the control room shouting 'I want eyes on every asset
they've got / I want to know everywhere he's slept in the last four
years, I want to know how he takes his eggs, what his favourite flavour
of ice cream is...'. This is why we need to stop Tom Cruise from
producing his own movies, because he can't carry a whole movie on his
own. The directing is atrocious and the script is disgusting. Tom
Cruise is okay, but everyone else might as well have been picked
straight from the street. There is literally NO ACTION UNTIL THE LAST
SCENE. Anyone who says this movie is 'Action Packed' is lying. Just
don't watch it: these people don't deserve any more money after putting
such sh*t in my face.
<|_=00=_|>
This is worse than part 1. Part was wasn't too bad, but this is plain
awful. It is wrong on many levels - the plot is incredibly weak, the
acting is awful, and the script is straight out of a 70s B movie. 

In an alternate universe this movie star Jean Claude Van Dame. However
in this universe Tom Cruise appears to have failed miserably, as did
direction, script writing etc.

Corny lines like, "They ran out of Medal" when referring to how heavily
awarded this former MP is, happen to be just one example amongst the
many.

Then there is the plot, the pointless proactive attempt by the bad guys
to lock up and kill Major Smulders, follow Jack Reacher, create a
professional baddie that takes things personally. 

This may well be the tipping point decline in the career of Tom Cruz,
he just looked past it, slow, completely unbelievable.

I won't say much more, this movie isn't worth wasting the time on the
critique.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie Street V.3 # 190

Tom Cruise is back with his new action thriller "Never Go Back". This
time he collaborates with the brilliant director Edward Zwick and the
gorgeous Cobie Smulders and trailer also gave some high expectations.

Jack Reacher after disbanding a human trafficking operation and he goes
back to the headquarters to meet his long time telephone friend Major
Susan Turner. But unfortunately she was framed and jailed. Reacher and
Susan Turner teams ups to solve the mystery.

Tom Cruise shines all the way. His screen presence was totally
impressive and his action performances were top notch. His energy level
is Cobie Smulders was equally impressive as Tom Cruise. But all the
other characters were actually dull and was nothing.

The storyline was an okay-ish but clichéd in most parts. It was
predictable and the narration was pretty weak and slow. Some of the
action scenes and car chase was good. 

A forgettable Sequel to the great action movie Jack Reacher.

An action thriller which lacks thrills

5.7 on 10

As a TC fan, this one was disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
The first JR movie was acceptable. This one, terrible! It opens with 4
guys beaten and laying in a parking lot. JR is inside a diner. We don't
know what exactly happened or why it happened. But of course JR is
responsible. Not even sure why this scene was there. It serves
absolutely no purpose or story enhancement.

There are so MANY plot holes it is impossible to keep count. JR may
have a daughter, conveniently he finds her almost instantly. Guys with
guns never used them properly or hit JR.

The scene when he is in prison and talking with his attorney, at the
exact moment he is looking outside the window (convenient), he sees 2
bad guys coming in. They of course look the part, and park right
outside the window at the exact time JR is looking outside. He then
gets his lawyer to go get him a sandwich and she leaves her briefcase
and wallet behind. JR then proceeds to escape a maximum security prison
with little effort.

It goes on and on like that. He spots his 'daughter' in a huge
Halloween parade in New Orleans, with literally thousands of people on
the streets. 

It is really a terrible injustice to Lee Child and his wonderful
novels. Typical Hollywood hack and slash job on brilliant novels and
story. 

Don't waste your money and pay to see it. If you must watch it, wait
for it to be on regular cable TV shortly.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes I am a Lee Child/Reacher fan and yes I have read all the books. I
am not a nitpicker though. I understand that for editing and thematic
purposes a book is butchered from time to time for the sake of creating
a script - this movie simply represents a poor job of it.

I watched the film last night and woke up with no clear memories about
the film so I watched it again to see if I was missing something.

From beginning to end too much of the details of the story are tossed
out. The film opens up with no explanation of why Reacher is in a
diner, where the diner is and how he knows Major Turner. Most of the
information is implied by incoherent flashbacks that also don't add any
details.

I would say incoherent is the operative term throughout. Each scene was
like being 35 minutes late t the film and walking in an sitting down
and watching it anyways. The minute you figure out what is going on,
its already a few scenes later.

Reacher was charged with two crimes in the book, and assigned two
lawyers. Neither of the crimes was much more than a back story to the
main plot, and certainly not the daughter, but these facts are
important because it explains why he is operating the way he does. The
reason for drafting Reacher back into the Army is not fleshed out and
his time confined to the base are completely glossed over. 

All the military officers in the movie are far too compliant and give
up classified and/or privileged information without putting up any kind
of fight or demanding a reasonable explanation.

Major Turner is scripted as some sort of helpless whiny side kick. 

There is action, but it doesn't fit in well with the story, it is also
incoherent and not well explained and seemed perfunctory as apposed to
essential. Again, I saw it last night, and I woke up trying to remember
is there was any action, or was it just Reacher on the run with Turner
and a teenager? 

It was like watching a bad Paul Greengrass film minus the shaky camera
work. Frenetic, and unconnected. Much like the film Alex Cross had
nothing to do with the book I, Alex Cross; Never Go Back has little to
do with the Jack Reacher novels.

All this would be somewhat acceptable if it were a decent action film,
but it is not even that.

Therefore I feel I have no choice to but say its just a bad film.
Sorry.
