
I watched this movie today and I can't help but think that the film is
more complicated than it might seem. I feel that this movie is more
about mental illness than it is about spirits in the Aokigahara. Let's
start with the facts, we have our main character, Sara, and her
identical twin, Jess. The story behind these sisters is that, when they
were small, they were going down a set of stairs with their
grandmother. When they are approaching the bottom of the staircase, the
grandmother yells "cover your eyes". What had happened was their father
had killed their mother and then proceeded to kill himself. Sara
covered her eyes and never saw what had happened, but Jess did not and
saw everything. Now here is what I think this whole movie is about,
there is no twin sister. There is no Jess. 

Bear with me here. I think that due to this traumatic experience in the
childhood of Sara, she dissociated her personality into two different
people, Jess and Sara, so that she wouldn't have to deal with the fact
that she saw both her parents dead. She claims throughout the movie
that she never helped Jess "carry the burden" of what she saw that day,
indication I believe that it is simply a place inside her head that she
locked away very deeply in order to escape the truth. Now, this theory
makes a lot of sense if you pay attention to certain details I believe
the director left there on purpose. Here are my top 5:

1. Early during the movie, we see a scene where Sara is going down a
set of stairs to a basement. In the basement, she sees a yellow tent.
From the outside, we can see two distinct shadows sitting inside it,
but when she opens it, there is only one girl.

2. When she tells her boyfriend, Rob (Eoin Macken), that she needs to
go to Japan, he has on his face a very concerned look. He looks
somewhat tired and not shocked by the announcement. I saw this as
someone who knows that she is mentally ill and thus tries to calm her
down in order to make her not go, without actually trying to reason
with her.

3. When Sara stays the night in the forest, she runs out at night and
finds this Japanese lady who tells her to not trust Aiden. This makes
her paranoid the rest of the movie whenever he's around. Now here is
the deal breaker for me. When she asks him for his cellphone to see if
he had any pictures of Jess, she yells at him that there are pictures
of her sister in his phone. Aiden denies that he had ever met her
sister and just looks at her clueless not knowing what the hell was
going on. I think, the picture she saw was one he had taken of her
(Sara). She thinks Jess is another person but she's not. 

4. Near the end, when she is in the cabin with Aiden, she loses it
because she puts her ear to a door and she swears that she can hear
Jess from the other side. Jess slides a note from under the door asking
if Aiden was there, Sara answers yes, Jess tells her to kill him (I
think). Bottom line is, if you look closely, the handwriting on both
"sides" of the conversation is the same. Anyways, Sara grabs a knife
and goes to Aiden and is all "Open the closet and let Jess out". Again,
Aiden is just completely clueless and tells her that the key is in his
boot in order to distract her and try to take the knife from her. In
the end, she stabs him, he dies. What's interesting is that the
"closet" door opens by itself, yet all she can see when she opens it is
that traumatic experience that she lived as a child. There is no Jess.
At this moment, she walks down the stairs towards the little girl, and
"sees" her parents lying dead on the ground. She yells at the girl that
was there to run upstairs as her dad comes back from the dead and
"convinces her" to slit her wrists. Again, only one girl there. So it
begs the question, who wrote her the note then? It was herself. This
further supports the theory because where "Jess" is supposed to be, we
only see the event that traumatized her.

5. After she runs away from the shack, her sister manages to somehow
run in the exact same direction at the exact same time. The way the
scene is recorded, we can see some sort of parallelism going on between
the two. When Jess comes out, Rob looks at her and asks "Sara?" Now,
given that the two supposedly have different hair color, I'm not
entirely sure he would confuse the two. When she doesn't answer, he
asks "Jess?" to which she responds. He then proceeds to walk her out of
the forest. I don't think he would have left that forest without
Sara...my theory is that he did leave with her; he left with Sara/Jess.
The reason why "Jess" was the only one that came out of the forest was
because Sara faced her reality back at the shack and accepted that she
was the one that saw her parents lying dead on the floor. Thus, two
different personalities finally came together into one single person
and Sara was forever lost in the forest that was supposedly one that
makes people "face their sadness" and "find themselves". That's why
Jess says "I can't hear it inside me anymore. The noise where Sara was,
it's gone".

If a sequel comes out, then I guess my theory isn't valid which makes
the movie not that good... So I'll stick to my theory. I enjoy it more
that way.
<|_=00=_|>
I had my eye on this movie since it came out earlier this year. It was
a January release so I was in no rush to see it, but it had a genuinely
cool premise: looking for someone in the suicide forest, which is an
actual place in Japan where people go to commit suicide. It's pretty
unsettling. In the movie, it's said that the forest compels people to
kill themselves due to supernatural forces or vengeful spirits. The
Forest focuses on Sara, whose sister has gone missing in said forest,
and Sara's desperate endeavors to find her sister despite the evidence
pointing to her being dead. Up until about the 30-minute mark, I was on
board. The pieces were set, the exposition was established, and the
characters (Sara, her journalist friend Aiden, and a tour guide) were
finally heading into the forest. Again, the atmosphere is creepy
throughout. The director clearly has a grasp on how to build tension.

The problem is that the promising build ups lead to zero payoffs. There
are handful of cheap jump scares, a couple of which admittedly shocked
me but only momentarily. Once the initial shock wore off seconds later
I was in the same state of mind as before. Effective jump scares linger
for a while; they imbue dread and usually add something to the
narrative. The jump scares here are your typical, "Boo! Something's
behind you!", which are easy to shrug off. Also, once they're in the
forest, the characters make some decisions that are unfathomably stupid
and out-of-character. Like, the main point of the forest is that it
makes you think you see things, a psychedelic effect if you will. So
after Sara receives this crucial information, she runs after the first
thing she sees scurrying around in the forest. While it's pitch black,
mind you. It completely takes you out of the movie and makes you lose
all empathy for the characters for putting themselves in these
avoidable situations. 

Also, The Forest focuses more on the bond between Sara and her sister
than the actual forest. So there are plenty of flashbacks, dream
sequences, all that garbage that just muddles the fact that, hey, this
forest is really f*cking scary. Why not focus on the forest instead of
forcing character development, if you can even call it that? It makes
no sense. Also, there's nothing we haven't seen before. People being
hung? First scene in Sinister. Claustrophobic underground tunnels? The
Descent. The only thing that makes the movie unique is the actual
setting which is used as a backdrop more than anything.

The acting is good, as is the premise, but the potential littered
within this movie is never fully realized. The director can definitely
creep you out but he'll need a better script if he wants to make a
truly great movie. The Forest just leaves you feeling hollow and
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Japan's Aokigahara "Suicide Forest" by itself is a creepy and gruesome
place because of its reputation as one of the most notorious suicide
spots in the world as well as its historic association with demons in
Japanese mythology. Its inherently scary atmosphere is perfect for a
good horror movie, but The Forest mostly squanders its promise by
degrading it to a hot spot for cheap jump scares. The Forest stars Game
of Thrones star Natalie Dormer in a dual role as twins Jess and Sara.
Jess has disappeared into the forest, and Sara travels to Japan to go
into the forest to look for her, unaware of the demons that lurk in the
forest. The film has a pretty interesting premise and could have worked
if executed correctly. 2014's As Above, So Below took an intrinsically
creepy setting, the Paris catacombs, and used an unsettling atmosphere
and good scares to make one of the better horror films of that year.
The Forest does not use its setting to its advantage. Any atmosphere
created by the forest is frittered away by a dull jump scare. Despite
all the loud noises and sudden shocks, the scares are just boring. That
could have been helped by a good story, but once Sara actually reaches
the forest, the plot just sort of stops. The last half of the movie is
just her running through the forest while demons pop out from behind
the trees. It's not until the end that the plot decides to move forward
any more, but by the time the big twist happens, you don't really care.
The Forest has a committed performance from Natalie Dormer and glimmers
of an interesting movie but mostly wastes them on predictable jump
scares and a bland story.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon seeing Jason Zada's "The Forest," I feel like I'm at a point of
indifference I have never been at before when it comes to watching and
reviewing films. Normally, I emerge from films eager to talk about some
aspect, or feel empowered to emphasize details or things in the film I
wouldn't have thought general audiences might have noticed themselves.
With "The Forest," I emerge with depressingly little to talk about.
It's become far too common to kick off a new year with an underwhelming
horror film (2012 had "The Devil Inside," 2013 had "Texas Chainsaw 3D,"
2014 had "Paranormal Activity: The Marked Ones," and 2015 had "The
Woman in Black 2: Angel of Death"), and if nothing else, that seems to
be the only constant in American cinema alongside with a surefire
hurricane of blockbusters starting in May and continuing through July).

"The Forest" is set in the Aokigahara Forest, located in Japan's sacred
Mount Fuji. It is a forest that was once known as the place where
family members would leave sick, crippled, or disabled loved ones to
die during times of famine and war, and in present day, is a popular
suicide location. We focus on Sara Price (Natalie Dormer), a young
woman who gets a call from the Japanese police telling her that her
missing twin sister Jess (also played by Dormer) is dead after she was
seen going into the Aokigahara Forest. Knowing her sister all too well,
and knowing that she is unstable but not suicidal, Sara commits to
flying halfway across the world to try and find her, as a strong part
of her believes she is still alive.

Sara's belief is only strengthened when she sees that the body
discovered is not Jess, leading her to believe that her sister is still
somewhere deep in the forest. At a bar one night, she meets an
Australian reporter named Aiden (Taylor Kinney), who decides to do a
story on her and her quest to find her sister. She tells him how Jess
was always the one that looked toward danger, when she turned her head;
she recalls when their parents were killed by a drunk driver and how
Jess saw the bodies while she closed her eyes. The next morning, the
two venture into Aokigahara with a park ranger named Michi (Yukiyoshi
Ozawa), in efforts to try and find Jess.

The idea of the forest, as explained in very disjointed and vague
manners by the locals throughout the course of the film, is that if
there is an inkling of sadness in your heart upon entering Aokigahara,
it will be exploited through things that you will see in the forest to
the point where you'll believe the only way out is suicide. Michi
explains to Sara upon entering deep into the woods that anything she
sees from here on out is a result of hallucinations and her own mind
playing tricks on her. The natural world leaves as soon as you abandon
the trail of the forest.

"The Forest" is marginally effective in creating atmosphere, especially
during the late night and early morning scenes when the forest becomes
less a collection of trees, branches, and leaves and more of an
abstract maze. The issue the film has is rooted in the screenplay,
penned by Nick Antosca, Sarah Cornwell, and Ben Ketai. In order for the
character relationships and the setting to be simultaneously
successful, or at the very least harmonious, they need to be equally
developed. Initially, the trio of screenwriters do this right by giving
Sara enough time before she has to go in the forest to allow her
personality to be open to us to get to know. We get to know about her
and her sister's backstory after she meets Aiden and we get a hold on
their characters quite nicely.

The problem is that once Sara, Aiden, and Michi go in the forest, the
focus should shift on the forest being the character in the film, which
it really isn't. Nothing about this forest feels that eerie, except for
the music and the jumpscares we experience when we are immersed into
it. The feeling of being trapped in the forest with the characters is
there, since there is no cutting to a search party or Sara's fiancé,
but there is still no real involvement or characteristic with this
forest aside from ropes and the occasionally successful jolt.

Because of this, "The Forest" grows repetitive, and at the end of it
all, we have a conclusion that doesn't answer any of our questions
about who Jess is as a person and why she would have wanted to go into
these woods in the first place. This is especially frustrating since,
from the beginning, Zada and company make it seem like they will
develop the story in a manner that's focused on the characters, only to
leave the most intriguing soul of the entire film undeveloped in her
motivations and her intentions.

Well-shot, but lacking sustenance and the graceful blend of character
and location, "The Forest" is a mediocre horror film, though its PG-13
makes it perfectly acceptable for the middle school/high school crowd
to experience a Friday night scare. It's a bit humorous to think that
the path the film took is the same the film's characters took upon
entering Aokigahara. Instead of following the path that would've keep
them safe (the filmmakers keeping both the characters and the location
in mind), they took a wrong turn and ended up losing themselves in a
sea of unfortunate circumstances.
<|_=00=_|>
This entire film is just set-ups for things which never really happen,
and a handful of really lame, and completely predictable, jump scares.

Plot begins in flashback-land, as Sarah travels to Japan, in search of
her missing sister, Jess, who disappeared in an area known for
suicides, and is said to be haunted by the vengeful spirits of those
who have died there. We are introduced, briefly, to her... husband?
Boyfriend? It isn't made clear. Whoever the bloody hell he is, he
really is only there for the seemingly contractually obligated twist
ending. He is mostly unnecessary to the plot, and could be edited out
of the film, and his absence would not be noticed.

After arriving in Japan, we're introduced to Rob, and the story can't
decide if he is trustworthy, or a killer. An interesting twist two
thirds into the film seems to portray him as being somehow responsible
for her sister's death, but then it seems unsure of itself, whether he
is a killer, or if it is the restless spirits in the forest trying to
trick her. Little is done with that, and it's unfortunate, because that
is the most interesting part of the film. 

A weird (although not as creepy as the film wants her to be) schoolgirl
is either following her in the forest, or is a few steps ahead of her,
luring her farther off the beaten path, deeper into the forest, not
because it has any relation to the plot, but just because it's a thing
which happens. 

A few unnecessary, and blatantly obvious, jump scares happen, again,
not for any real reason, they happen just because.

Judging by its writing credits, the three writers ( "Nick Antosca and
Sarah Cornwell and Ben Ketai" ) all worked on the screenplay
separately, independent of each other, as their names are all separated
by the word "and". If they had collaborated together, their names would
have been linked by an ampersand ( & ), as per Writer's Guild
regulations. That is an odd situation, I cannot think of any other
title with the writers credited that way. Perhaps that is why the film
feels so disjointed, and oddly structured, and doesn't do much with its
surprisingly good cast, and competent cinematography?

And this is probably the 6000th film in the past five years to end with
a character lunging at the screen in the final second, in the the most
predictable, over used twist/ jump scare ending in cinematic history.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as horror movies goes this one is not bad..The theme of the
suicide forest is intriguing.The stranger in a strange land them works
well here.the film avoids most of the horror clichés.

It has plenty of creepy moments and you'll jump a few times.The
production is high and Natalie Dormer gives a good twist on the scream
queen ..Her character is not dumb repeating cliché lines and
behavior..The questions that run though your head her character
answers.The film has a dark ending and is not fairy tale at all..I
don't understand why its so poorly rated its not that bad...its a good
scary movie.....
<|_=00=_|>
As a whole the movie works and is very satisfying. It's like a joke
that seems to have a weak set up that's made up for with a hilarious
punchline, but waiting for the punchline to come in a feature film can
be dull. 

It's not like pulling teeth dull or anything like that, It is a good
story. It really does not hurt that Natalie Dormer is fun to look at
for an hour or two as she plays a woman looking for her twin sister who
entered a forest in Japan known to attract those who want to commit
suicide and never comes out. For those of you not into Dormer, Taylor
Kinney is in it as well as a reporter trying to help, but has his own
agenda. If you you don't like either actor that will be a problem cause
for the most part it's the two of them in the woods for the majority of
the film.

It's not as scary or frightening as I hoped for. The disturbing images
did the trick, but it did not get my heart jumping like I expected, but
it feels like the overall story is what is supposed to haunt you. I get
it but I'm not all that impressed.
<|_=00=_|>
It was obvious that, sooner or later, someone was going to make a film
about the legendary forest of Aokigahara, widely known as "the Suicide
Forest" due to the big quantity of persons who commit that act there
(between 50 and 100 each year, even though the Japanese government
doesn't announce the total numbers anymore in order to reduce the fame
of that site), maybe inspired by the book The Complete Suicide Manual,
which recommended it as an ideal place to do that. But, well... leaving
its origin aside, the subject is undoubtedly fascinating and
disturbing. Pity that the film The Forest wasn't able to do anything
interesting with it. From the beginning, The Forest displays many
elements copied in the same degree from the old J-Horror and the
Hollywood horror (strident music, nightmares, faces deformed digitally,
etc.). And with those visual clichés and cheap thrills, The Forest
advances until leading to an unnecessary twist which is more irritating
than surprising, due to the arbitrary manipulation of events which
doesn't even adequately solve the "mystery" of the damned forest.
Another problem is the main character's characterization. As we can
suppose, she's completely skeptical on the beginning before the
warnings of the supernatural entities inhabiting the forest; her
purpose is finding her twin sister, and she won't let any local
superstitions to interfere in her mission. But she almost immediately
recognizes the fact that, effectively, the uncountable suicides created
a malignant atmosphere in the forest, and not everything is like it
seems. And then, she stops believing, thinking that everything has a
natural explanation. And then, she believes in ghosts again. And then,
she doesn't. And then, she does. And that's how things proceed until I
couldn't care less about the final answer, which ended up being
irrelevant anyway, because of the previously mentioned twist. On the
positive side, actress Natalie Dormer makes a good work in the dual
role of Sara and Jesse, displaying equal credibility in the suspense
sequences and the dramatic scenes she shares with her "sister" or the
gallant in turn. And the forest in which most of the movie was shot
(located in Serbia) is undoubtedly lugubrious and threatening, unlike
the squalid Czech forests we have frequently see in similar horror
films; pity that there are too many scenes in almost total darkness
which avoid us from appreciating the most dismal details. In
conclusion, I liked Dormer's performance and the Serbian locations, but
I found The Forest a boring and uninteresting film in spite of that,
and I can't recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
5.5 I would say is right on the money. Not academy material but good
for a couple of jump scares. Just saw the movie tonight. First jump
scare was so good lady next to me spilled her full bag of popcorn and
tipped over her drink...we laughed and laughed...then the usher came.

I had the movie pegged to go in another direction but I guess the joke
was on me, and everyone I was with thought the movie was going in the
same direction I thought, so it was pleasant surprise that it was not
that predictable.

Overall 5.5 is good, watchable, scary enough. More psychological than
it was Horror or Terror.

It was a little light on the Horror, and there was 1 single plot line,
but still enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Natalie Dormer plays a woman who is searching for her twin sister(also
Dormer) who has gone missing in Japan, last seen in a forest where
everybody seems to die, but she is determined to find her no matter
what, but will she find her, or will the forest drive her insane? 

The film does have some good scares, and Natalie Dormer does give it
her all here. But the story itself feels to cut down, and actors like
Taylor Kinney who play it so bland, he just does not have much to work
with. The movie tries to hard and it shows, the ending does not leave
much to be explained. All in all, it could have been better. Just don't
leave much to enjoy all of it.
