
The WINTER SOLDIER is the best MCU film, but its sequel has a serious
identity crisis. 

Captain America: Civil War wants to be great. But for the most part it
isn't. The film is an overstuffed 2 and half hour film that has one too
many ideas thrown into the mix. It is essential a cash grab of the BVS
variety. But why can't people see this? 

Now this is a Captain America as the title suggests. But in the end a
more fitting title would read: Bucky VS Ironman: Dawn of who's the
Captain's Bestie. The reason I say this is the film felt disjointed to
the point of it being a joke. It felt like two separate films weaved
together to try and make a film that makes sense. But it didn't It's
one half a Captain flick/ the other half a mini Avengers film. But they
both drown each other. 

It's clear this is a film Marvel wanted to make, but why on earth rush
into it? One film could never service this iconic plot line. It should
have been gradual, and while we did see Cap and Tony tense up in
Ultron, this is where a strain in their relationship should have been
definite and it should have still been in effect at the beginning of
this film.

For the most part of the Airport sequence there was no real danger. It
was a carefully orchestrated scene that showed these films are for
young cinema-goers. Even when one character is looked to be written off
"BAM" they are back, giving everyone some cheep laughs at the end of
the film. 

Now from a writing and filmmaking point of view and dare I say it, this
film has worse interconnecting scenes then The Amazing Spiderman 2.
Re-shoots are obvious, editing is sub par, cinematography lacked style
and was evident to be a "quick" point-and-shoot at the action affair.
Such a disappointment. 

But yes this film has it's fun moments (the same can not be said for
BVS). But they can't help a film tailored to a certain demographic that
leaves out those looking for a film that doesn't kill a few braincell
upon leaving the cinema. The laughs are hardly inspirational writing
and forced, so forced.

sidetone: ONLY SOME OF THEM HAVE SUPER POWERS, SO WHY DO THEY ALL
RECOVER FROM HARD HITS AND KNOCKS? it's just makes the stakes so much
lower and less respectable.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is so riddled with plot holes, flaws, horrible cgi and
horrible jokes its ridiculous the more i think about this film the
worse it gets and initially i loved it but man some of the stuff in
this film can just not be excused from the horrible villain, the weak
plot and character motivations i could go on and on all day. after how
great the winter soldier was i thought this next cap would be next
level especially with the russos at the helm and wow did it let me down
A lot. just not a good film at all

okay all of zemos plans made no sense think about it how would zemos
plan even work if falcon never told tony where they went? how and why
was there a random camera in the middle of an isolated road in the tree
line pointing directly across the road at more trees exactly where
bucky killed tonys parents like come on? also bucky broke free of those
restraints when he was getting interrogated by zemo why didn't he just
cover his ears so he couldn't hear the trigger words? also how did zemo
even get in there its a top secret government location not a nightclub
a fake id isn't going to cut it the avengers and the government did no
extra investigation into the sokovia accords bombing and just ordered a
shoot to kill order off of a fake picture? . thats pretty weak for the
avengers and the government. zemo is a flaw to me he is only used as a
plot device no development what so ever and he is the key to everything
happening he could've been great!! the cgi for spidey is horrible man
but thats not a big deal to me but spidey ant man and hawk eye are so
shoehorned in especially the 2 non avengers like think about it why are
they even there? its just for the spectacle but makes no sense you're
going to bring a brand new superhero who's 15 years old to a "war"
(which it wasn't) and he didn't even need to be there. there's more and
more i can keep going on about but they are all overshadowed and
clouded by the action and jokes. it was a good film its just not as
flawless as everyone is saying it has great action set pieces 10/10 but
as a film story etc it isn't that good. i don't want to seem
overcritical but thats how everyone was with BvS except i can explain
their plot holes no one can explain mine yet﻿

that being said I'm very excited for the black panther movie directed
by coogler so that looks like its going to be great because the
character has great potential that goes for spidey too they just need
to fix his CGI it was horrible in this film and he is one of my
favorite character in pop culture period so i hope they do him justice
<|_=00=_|>
I'm confused so much, all these movies sorta blend into each other.
Since they are tied together. Hulk, Thor, Cap America, Iron man,
etc.... Since the avengers were in this I assumed it was another
Avengers movie.

But no it's Captain America: Civil War? Huh? Don't you need the
Avengers for a civil war? What it being CIVIL and all. Umm....so
confused.

Where is Thor and Hulk, and Loki and and and.....I can go on and on,
but you get the point. We really know it was budget issues. They are IN
the Avengers, SO why are they not asked to sign? ?????

Confusion. WHY do, ALL OF A SUDDEN, half the avengers seem not to trust
Cap???? OH right since that is what the plot needed. This whole movie
is just trash. Random spider man and ant man thrown in too, why not?
Just whatever at this point. Explosions and random sh*t. Can anyone
make sense of these movies anymore?

All started with Cap, the Nazis stole something from Thor/Loki....then
he was frozen, woken up....umm Tony Stark's father knew Cap. Umm Cap
almost banged Peggy? She did stuff created shield or something....then
Hydra got in. Then Loki went crazy, and Thor stopped him, or didn't.
Umm then Iron man made suits....Black widow wore tight tight clothes.
She was in ballet??? Kissed Cap, but loves Hulk??? Umm....wtf is even
happening any more. Robin hood has a secret family??? And who was that
guy in a panther suit. RANDOM AS F***! LOL ?????

If you LOVE confusing white noise this is the movie for you!!!!!
"Confusing White Noise: The Movie!"
<|_=00=_|>
Superheroes may misunderstand and they make mistakes but, ultimately,
they are morally incorruptible. If they find themselves on the wrong
side of a fight it's because they've misunderstood the nature of the
problem. However, when reality finally hits home we can rely on them to
admit their error and go off to fight together in the name of Truth,
Justice and the American Way. People who die are unavoidable collateral
damage, superheroes are beyond reproach and we need them too much to
limit their powers. The world is just too scary and too dangerous to
shackle the mighty with red tape and bureaucracy. Superheroes are
better than us mere mortals, not just more powerful but also more
moral. They don't need to follow the same rules we do.

After Winter Soldier I was under the (apparently mistaken) belief that
Marvel's Capt. America franchise was criticising neoliberal America.
There was all that stuff about the ends not justifying the means and
about how politicians use terror to convince the population they need
to be oppressed for their own good. How wrong could I be! Now I see
that it's actually the opposite. It pretends to be anti-establishment
but really it's just about justifying a sense of self-entitlement. Like
Donald Trump, Capt. America criticises the State for oppressing people
whilst simultaneously adhering to exactly the sort of high-handed moral
superiority that inevitably leads to that oppression. He (I mean Capt.
America) obviously skipped school on the day they taught the importance
of checks-and-balances and why one of the central principles of US
Democracy is that of the separation of powers.

The message of this film is simple. If you believe you are right, then
you can do whatever you want as long as it's in the name of *insert
moral cause*. Anyone who tries to limit your personal crusade is either
stupid, naïve or oppressing you. Freedom from oppression means the
freedom to act like you're better than other people, because, well, you
ARE better than other people (go on, admit it, you're amongst friends
here).
<|_=00=_|>
This review contains spoilers and my English is kinda bad.... so lets 
start: After seeing 8.5/10 my expectations were really high but after 
watching this movie i was so disappointed (probably the worst marvel 
film since first CA what is really ironic since CA 2 was one of the top 
three... ) 

Story: story is meh, nothing special, just CA and his buddy (with 
support of 1/2 avengers) against the world 

My PERSONAL problems with this film :

1. Terrible villain again, didn't remember his name 20min after the 
movie ended, did pretty much nothing but showed some amazing prophet 
skills 

2.So many stupid things like how did villain know iron man will come at 
the very end, how did he know nobody told iron man how his parents 
died, also the big fight at the airport was just too dumb, pretty much 
all mighty jean nm.2 and vision in the same fight where black widow and 
hawk eye should just really be hoping, praying and dodging some random 
explosions... this list could really go on and on 

3.SO OVERCROWDED. Why the hell did ant-man join the fight? What 
is his motivation? How does random Nigerian prince have powers to fight 
CA and bucky ? HOW ??? Nobody but CA, Iron man and bucky had story 
behind them (pretty pathetic though),others were just useless guys 
fighting. At least they didn't ruin Hulk even more :-)

4.Really ? Tony tried to kill his friend CA and bucky and then after 
being defeated he is f***ing cool with it? Best buddies again? 

5.In iron man 3 tony was able to call 30 auto iron mans to fight for 
him, here he got challenged by a freaking falcon with his wings? Also 
at the airport he was unable to defeat CA and at the very end he almost 
rekt two of them ? ... Guess I'm back to stupid stuff...

On the other side, good things:

1.Spider-man - yea this kid with no story in movie at all was one of 
few good funny things about this movie 

2.Cool fights right ?

All in all , 4/10 (coz i love superheroes movies), 1/10 is to balance 
things...
<|_=00=_|>
1st, Civil War is basically a copy of BvS. A government building gets
blown up by a bomb, killing a prominent government official. A villain
manipulating heroes into fighting.

2nd, too many characters just popping up without any reason at all and
just shoehorned into the movie - Ant-Man/Giant Man - Black Panther -
Hawkeye (was retired, now suddenly abandons the girlfriend and kids to
come back and help a fugitive escape from the authorities) - The
Annoying Spider-Kid (more annoying than Jar Jar Binks in The Phantom
Menace; did more talking than fighting)

3rd, after all the buildup about a disagreement over the issues of
collateral damage and government oversight of the heroes, those issues
were completely trivialized by a "big fight" that was nothing more than
a friendly sparring contest with bad one-liners thrown in: "Are we
still going to be friends after this?" "We haven't met before?" "Mr
Stark. What do I do now?" "You have a METAL arm?" "I'm from Queens. I'm
from Brooklyn."

Was the "Civil War" supposed to be a real fight for something they
believed in, or just a "Joke-Off" to determine who could deliver the
best jokes?

4th, MCU fans had been saying for months that Captain America was
justified in opposing government oversight of the heroes because he
didn't want the Avengers to be controlled by HYDRA. But it wasn't HYDRA
who requested the Sokovia accords. It was the United Nations.

The Avengers had caused massive deaths and destruction so the United
Nations wanted oversight of the Avengers. But Captain America didn't
want the Avengers to be held responsible and have to answer to the
people for the massive deaths and destruction that they caused.

Captain America wanted the Avengers to be the supreme authority
(exactly like Hitler, Stalin, and Saddam Hussein made themselves the
supreme authority) to make decisions on what's best for the people
instead of letting the elected representatives of the people make
decisions on what's best for the people (like the way a Democracy
works). So basically, Captain America opposes Democracy and favors
Tyranny.

5th, plenty of plot holes and lazy, contrived writing. Tony Stark had
called Secretary of State Ross to evacuate the airport prior to the big
fight. So Ross knew before the big fight that the Captain America and
the Bucky were planning to hijack a plane at that airport.

So why didn't Ross just have military fighter jets hovering in the sky
nearby in case they succeed in hijacking a plane? There's already a
"shoot on sight" order for Bucky so if they succeed in hijacking a
plane, then the military fighter jets can just fly in and either shoot
at their plane to force them to land or shoot down their plane.

Since Captain America and Bucky can't fly on their own, their powers
are useless when they're inside a plane being fired upon by military
fighter jets. And their plane wouldn't be able to evade military
fighter jets. But the script needed Captain America and Bucky to escape
so that it could set up the final fight between Iron Man and Captain
America.

Also, the 1st half of the movie is all about Tony Stark trying to get
all the Avengers to sign the Sokovia Accords, which state that the
Avengers would operate only when approved by a UN panel. Then in the
2nd half of the movie, Tony recruits Peter Parker to join his team even
though Peter is a minor and wouldn't be able to sign a legal document
and thus wouldn't be approved by the UN panel to operate under the
Sokovia Accords.

Another egregious error is that the whole movie set up Bucky as the
killer of Iron Man's parents, thus setting up the main conflict in the
movie, but why would there be video footage of their accident on some
random back road in 1991? And how did whomever filmed the video footage
know to place the camera at that EXACT spot where their car crashed,
and not a mile ahead or a mile behind where the car crashed?

If there was video footage, then wouldn't Iron Man or Jarvis or even
Ultron have stumbled across it by now? Tony hacked classified
government networks in seconds in Iron Man 2, hacked Shield in The
Avengers and has apparently been watching Peter Parker on a regular
basis. Seems like he would have found video footage of his parents'
deaths a long time ago.

And better yet, how could the coroner rule their deaths an accident
when the ligature marks around Maria Stark's neck and the fist imprints
in Howard Stark's face would have been immediately evident in the
autopsy? Was the coroner just incompetent?

Also, Tony Stark believed his parents died in an accident and never
suspected foul play at all. So how did Zemo know that their "accident"
from 25 years ago was actually foul play? How did Zemo know there was
video footage from 25 years ago of Tony's parents being murdered and
how did Zemo find that footage when Tony never knew about or found that
same footage?

Tony Stark was more angry at Steve Rogers because Steve knew but didn't
tell him. So how did Zemo know that Steve knew the "accident" 25 years
ago was actually foul play?

Those are massive pills we're asked to swallow that exist only because
they conveniently set up the final conflict between Iron Man and
Captain America. Now that's some mighty contrived writing.

6th, another forgettable MCU villain. Zemo was about as invisible in
Civil War as Luke Skywalker was in The Force Awakens.

7th, critics and haters of BvS complained about how Lex knew Superman
is Clark Kent and how Superman knew Batman is Bruce Wayne, but there
was no explanation at all for how Tony Stark knew Spider-Man is a high
school kid in Queens.
<|_=00=_|>
Captain America is only a stupid cowboy in this movie. Why does he not
sign the regulation papers? He isn't a god like Thor or Superman. Who
is Captain America to be above the Law? Superman or a American cowboy?
Why did he not tell Iron Man what his best friend have done with
H.Stark and his mother? Does he know how to talk with his friends like
Tony? I think not. He only knows how to fight... like a perfect
soldier...

And what about the conflict? And the consequences? Will we see them? Or
Captain is already a friend for Tony? He has given a cheap cellphone to
Tony... so... the conflict doesn't matter...

Only the action scenes are good...
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw it. Not gonna go in depth but incoherent plot with lack of
motivations for a lot of the characters to even fight to begin with.
Didn't like the actor who played Spider-Man, his jokes were bad and
misplaced in the middle of action scenes. Spider-Man seemed like he was
added in at the last possible moment of production as he seemed out of
place. I mean Tony Stark shows up and just blindly follows Tony. Black
Panther was alright but oh boy does his mind change fast but like
Spider-Man, he was shoehorned in. Ant-Man dragged along to be beside
Captain America, he just blindly follows Cap.

Too many jokes in the middle of action scenes. Winter Soldier almost
killed some of the Avengers but Captain Americas gay love for bucky
blinds him from him. Captain America being so stubborn and showing his
true colours as a terrible individual as he doesn't seem to care about
anyone's safety. I thought Cap was suppose to be a leader but really,
this movie only showed lack of leadership skills as he almost got
everyone killed.

The highly praised airport fight was not impressive. I'm not sure what
people saw here. Zoomed-in action scenes, close up to the faces, lame
jokes in between, Black Widow asking if were friends to Hawkeye, camera
shaking. The heroes just scatter/disappear and end up on the raft?.

Terrible pacing from one scene to the next. Captain America just having
a casual talk with Spider-Man while they are fighting and you can see
Evans laughing after he mentions that he's from Brooklyn ugh. So bad
and so cheesy. Cap holding the helicopter ugh so cheesy.

They say bucky is brainwashed but in some scenes, he seems to have it
together but in other scenes, he don't. If he is brainwashed, why does
Zemo need to activate him when he says the code?. After Zemo says the
code, he almost killed some of the Avengers but later on, he fights
alongside them?. And now he has it together or what?. Is he brainwashed
or not, what's going on here?. Why is he back and forth on killing the
Avengers and then working beside them?. Ugh so awful.

Chris Evans wooden acting. Lack of facial expressions for the intense
moments of the film. Captain Americas lame letter to Tony Stark.

All these Marvel movies and they still can't make War Machine the true
badass he is like in the comics. The character has been under utilized
since Rhodes has put on the suit. They made him a laughing stock in
Iron Man 2. The character has very little screen time in every other
Marvel movie. Absolutely awful how they treated War Machine in this
movie and previous movies. Terence Howard should be happy that he's not
playing this character anymore. Disney/Marvel made him a joke.

RDJ as Tony Stark/Iron Man is fantastic as always. No complaints here,
his motivation for killing Bucky makes sense here. Captain America
protecting bucky nope other then that they are friends from back in the
day.

A lot of the faults people give to BvS which are warranted is also in
this movie Civil War. This is not even a Cap Movie, it's a Avenger
movie. It's a overcrowded mess with too much going and too many
shoe-horned characters and too many characters lacking any real
motivation for even fighting each other.

I could go on about why I think this is the worst Marvel film to date.
I'm not sure what critics saw here. I rated it a 1 as a place holder
and reserved judgement until I saw it. I finally saw it. I'm leaving it
at a 1/10. An absolutely awful dreadful film that's only to please the
fanboys and children.
<|_=00=_|>
The Marvel universe gets tenser with the most-awaited "Civil War". For
what fans clamor to be a storyline that the MCU is building towards,
here comes a showdown of Marvel's biggest properties.

"Captain America 3" starts off where "Avengers: Age of Ultron" ended,
when the New Avengers, led by Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris
Evans), are cornered by international concern in response to continuous
collateral damage. As a result, a governing act is proposed to the
Avengers, fracturing the team to two sides, one led by Rogers and
another led by Tony Stark/Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.). But when a new
threat is on the horizon, the team has to face the repercussions of
their brawls.

It is a huge help that the Russo Brothers returned to hold the weights
of Marvel's Phase Three, after their spontaneous effort in "The Winter
Soldier". Though "Civil War" may not be as solid as its predecessor, it
is still a worthy addition to the Avengers storyline and Captain
America's saga. Yet, it excels for taking a mature route that brings a
compelling character study, a token from the first Avengers movie. Out
of such character study is the major theme of vengeance. I am not going
to give any more details about it. It is best to be seen and be
enamored by how such themes are delivered with an affecting yet
entertaining vibe.

Kudos to the cast ensemble that all brought their A-game, even though
some characters are not that fleshed out, or feeling shoehorned. Evans
is at his most moving as the fading patriot who wishes the best for his
team and loved ones. Downey Jr. is still what we expected from RDJ.
Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow has a neutral but affectionate
presence, despite her rather little involvement. The rest of the cast
is great to see, with notable breakout performances from Paul Rudd as
Scott Lang/Ant-Man/Giant-Man, Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa/Black
Panther and Tom Holland as Spider-Man/Peter Parker. And Daniel Bruhl as
Helmut Zemo is a better addition to Marvel's lacking lineup of
antagonists. But despite the cast's collective efforts, there is an
obvious battle for screen time with all characters. Thankfully, it was
all salvaged as the two parties brawl in a cleared airport, in an
exhilarating action sequence that will surely make every audience
member cheer.

For all the makings of a summer blockbuster, "Captain America: Civil
War" gets it all started right. Besides being a loyal companion to the
comic book storyline, it is a worthy setup to Marvel's other properties
and one that truly can hold on its own, courtesy of its consistent
superhero action scenes, the Russo brothers' tense direction, the
excellent cast, its thought-provoking themes and its exciting story
with its signature Marvel snappy dialogue. Let us hope for the best for
MCU's future, including Tom Holland's "Spider-Man".
