
Before i saw this movie i looked at some people's opinions about it and
i saw mostly negative reviews, so i was really nervous going into this
movie thinking that i would have had the same reaction to it and
seriously i have no idea what those people are talking about. 

So War for the planet of the apes is the 3rd film in the new
prequel/Reboot of the planet of the apes movies. And this is about
Caeser going on a journey to stop a war between his apes and an army of
highly trained soldiers, while he also tries to control his more
violent instincts. 

First the obvious, the CGI is amazing and is truly a technological
marvel to cinema. Andy Serkis once again plays the ape ruler Caesar and
is easily the best movie character in recent years, in each film he has
gotten progressively better and in this one it is definitely the best
performance. The story is great and is well acted throughout. This
movie is also an amazing drama. There are a lot of moments that just
make you jerk a tear every once in a while and its believable. The
action sequences are pretty good too. Woody Harrelson plays the colonel
and he does a pretty good job at it (He is not as good as koba but
still good). He is just a character that you can relate to and you
understand why he is doing all of this. Caesar and the colonel are
pretty relatable. As much as i would love to say how great this movie
is, i better stop right here. 

I loved every part of this movie and i did not find anything i did not
like about it, but i am gonna talk about why i think most people were
disappointed with this film. So if you watched all the trailers and
looked at the title you may be expecting one thing, a ton of apes and
humans fighting with guns and rockets. But although there is some of
that in this movie, its definitely not the main point of it. This movie
to its core is about the war that a person faces emotionally while war
is happening around him. We see this concept with Caesar all the way
through the movie. 

It also talks about what terrible things a person or people would do in
a war. Woody Harrelson's character does what he does because he
believes that the entire human race is going to go extinct if he does
not act. I mean, would you do that if you knew that you could slowly be
replaced by another species? 

So some people do not like this film because they were expecting a full
on hardcore war movie. And it is that, but it really is a commentary
about how a person has a war within themselves when war is happening
around them. And people either missed, did not care, or did not
understand the more darker themes about this movie. 

But anyway, in the end i thought this movie was a masterpiece in every
way it could have been. It has amazing CGI, performances, action
sequences, dark themes, tear jerking moments, and a beautiful moral to
it. A+ or 10/10 APES TOGETHER STRONG!
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the first few minutes of fighting in the forest and the rest
of the movie is just insufferable. Nothing makes much sense and the
pacing is so slow that I almost dosed off for a while. The good
cinematography and CGI does not make up for the lack of a decent plot
and forced character build-up. 

One example is that the little girl did not give a sh*t when she
discovered that her father (who supposedly risked everything escaping
from the military to protect and care for her) had been killed by the
apes but later was clearly moved to tears by the death of one of apes
who's been round and for a few days and gave her a flower one time
(maybe daddy just never put flowers in her hair and that's like her
thing?). I guess the writers' reasoning is that Caesar and the apes are
the good guys, and the girl's father tried to kill them, so he must be
a bad guy, so no sympathy for him, oh no no no, not even from his own
daughter, who needs to be on the good side later, because plots! So you
can see how this kind of character development successfully makes me
unable to empathize with any of the characters in this movie (to be
honest, I did feel for the girl's dad, poor guy). 

Perhaps the most irritating thing is the messy way the apes communicate
with each other. While most of them seem to be fluent with sign
languages and occasional 'O-O-' noise that makes them 'apish', Caesar
and a few other main characters can also speak some English with broken
grammar. Sometimes Caesar speaks English to apes that only do signs and
they seem to understand it (then why don't they just speak English
themselves or why don't Caesar just use sign language which others are
more comfortable with?). I know these things are there to make the
movie more 'realistic' but they don't work and only add to more
confusion and unnecessary suffering for the audience. Sometimes other
apes sign to Caesar behind his back and he totally gets it without even
looking at them! This kind of mixing up nonsensical things just makes
my OCD explode, not to mention 90% of the movie is listening to this
slow and boring enunciation of infantile broken English or reading
subtitles. 

I can go on, but I don't want to. I wish I had the courage to walk out
of the theater half way through the movie but I was a coward and
instead I weep for the future of cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
I was first reluctant to see this film when my friend invited me but
after seeing that it has a whopping 8.1 rating and remembering that the
previous films were quite enjoyable I was prepared to see a truly good
movie. I was incredibly disappointed. **SPOILERS** My first trouble
with the film happened with the appearance of the little girl, who
seemed to serve absolutely no purpose other than to spontaneously cause
tear- jerking moments which were accompanied by sad music in every
instance. Throughout the film there must have been around 10 of these,
all of them completely pointless and forced. It also baffled me that
she had close to 0 reaction to her father dying yet, when a gorilla who
she had known for literally one day died, she wept like it was her
brother. Another massive problem is that the entire plot of this movie
hinges on one condition: that every single person out of the ~1,000
soldiers at the concentration camp is a complete and utter imbecile.
Caesar's crew is running around right outside of the walls of the camp?
Of course no one notices, why would anyone be on over-watch at a
military base? All of the monkeys escape from their cages? Of course
there was only one person watching over them. In addition to that, for
the duration of what seemed like 10 minutes no one else even noticed
that all the monkeys were gone or that the single guard watching over
them was killed. Are these real soldiers!? Even statistically, what are
the chances that not a single soldier looked at a cage that is in plain
view from any part of the camp. These were just the most glaring issues
I had with the film. So little thought went into the script. These are
incredibly basic problems which could have been fixed with even the
slightest effort, This movie was so incredibly dumb that even my friend
who doesn't have much interest in film asked me if I wanted to leave
before the film was over.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen the original Planet of the Apes with Charlton Heston and
Roddy McDowell, I've seen the remake with Tim Roth, I've seen thousands
of films during my life. War for the Planet of the Apes seemed to me as
simply a showcase for the digital ape effects.

It's full of closeups of different digital ape faces against a blurry
background. Af if it's 1957 and we should be marveling at new
Disneyland animatronic characters. It's full of distant shots of
digital chimps scurrying around. That's most of the movie.

What people are saying is thought provoking, is a simple illustration
of two groups in conflict. Draw comparisons to Nazis and Jews, black
and white, Shia and Shi'ite, slave and slave owner. The same "thought
provoking" questions arise.

The only difference here is that it's put into a science fiction
context - what if apes were as smart as humans? Well, what if cats
were? Or squirrels? Had this been an action film, I'd say OK, it's an
action movie and it's fine. But it isn't. It has some action, but is
not an action film. It's mostly a very slow moving, dull, inarticulate
drama.

Inarticulate in two ways. A lot of the apes use sign language instead
of speech, and the script is not clever or intellectual. A few flashes
of well written dialog come up during an exchange between the Colonel
(Woody Harrelson) and Caesar (digital ape) and that's all there is.
Less than five minutes. The rest of the dialog is mainly focused on
vengeance and war or merciful understanding. There's no complexity or
intellectual stimulation here.

I'm shocked that nearly all professional film critics give this movie a
high rating and praise. Perhaps they all received $5,000 checks from
the film studio.
<|_=00=_|>
I am astonished, truly, that a hollow movie like spider-man; homecoming
that is instantly forgettable and fixated on lame themes of stupid
first-world teenage angst scored better user reviews than this
masterpiece. it really says a lot about the mindlessness of modern
cinema audiences, especially when the main argument is that ' there
isn't enough war'. that said, user reviews are moronic. Planet of the
apes is a triumph, really touching and thought, provoking on so many
levels. i saw it days ago and the emotion of the film is still very
fresh in my mind. in fact the more it occurs to me, the richer the
movie becomes. if this is not nominated in the best film Oscars
category, then the Academy is as daft as so many IMDb users.
<|_=00=_|>
What I do not like about this movie is the basic message: Humans in
comparison to animals cannot be trusted, they show no mercy, the
animals reach the higher ethical ground and should survive and reign
the world.

How is the goal of this message achieved? First, the whole movie plot
is filmed from the perspective of the ape- society, their families,
their friends, their love and their sorrows. Unlike the perfectly
arranged classical Charleton Heston movies in the 60s which bore a
shock element in a dark post-nuclear, post-apocalyptic world, where
mankind destroyed itself, this movie aims at showing the worthlessness
of human beings. The little blonde girl whose father got shot dead by
Cesar, didn't loose a single teardrop for her father, but after a short
while befriends herself with the apes, starts crying for a dead
gorilla, who gave her a flower, gives water and food to the imprisoned
killer of her father, Cesar, and feels herself quite comfortable now
growing up as a monkey daughter in the sense of a Tarzan, yet in a
considerable lower social position. 

Second, other humans, except maybe for Woody Harrelson as a pittiful
leader of a small company, do not have character depth in this movie,
and are basically the enemies, and except for the little blonde girl,
they all die, either killed by monkeys, by themselves, or by a snow
avalanche.

What a stupid movie! What a stupid message! Worthliness of human beings
is being shown here. Of course the human is bad from nature (described
as sinner), as the Bible tells us, but he is not worthless, and as Gods
creation is above the animals. Here you see the perversion of this idea
to the extent.

Now to the ambiance: Cold, snowy, Alaska-like landscape, no cities, no
larger Human or animal dwelling places. Most of the time 5 apes and the
little blonde girl take the central part in the non-inhabited boreal
wilderness on seek of revenge.

The fights: starting with a tactical nonsense Human uphill assault with
well equipped tactical weapons against spears and still being lost.
Only 3 humans and a silver-backed Gorilla get captivated, and after a
short interrogation get released by Cesar, but later become his
fiercest enemies again. Major explosions quite in the end of this
almost two hours movie. I spare to pinpoint the many flaws of the
fights there, just dumb.

Better title in this case would be: "War for the little ape reserve in
the Northern Alaska (or whatever landscape it represented)"

Cesar's portrayal - in the beginning: the good leader - in the middle:
the bad revenge seeker - at last: and the ugly Spartacus in the
workingcamp Conclusion of the movie: all humans dead (except girlie who
feels herself as a monkey) and the long exodus to sunny monkey land
next to a big evening-sun-bathed lake, where they all lived happily
there after,...oh no, not all, Cesar finally died from his arrow wound,
which he survived for the 1000 km trek through the deserts of death
Valley (or whatever location it represented), with a last glimpse of
his little monkey-boy playing with the little blonde human girl, he
died right in the arms of his Orang-Utan friend Murksy, Mopsy...forgot
the name. Bad.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolute trash. I am a huge fan of the franchise,
including the first two installments of the reboot. This film was
incredibly disappointing. The plot was almost non-existent, the pacing
was all over the place, the tone kept juggling and the development was
forced. 

It felt like they had no clue how to end the trilogy, so they threw
together a ton of walking inserts, and landscape shots with sprinkles
of action sequences sparingly used throughout. Slow movies do not
bother me but pretentious garbage like this film is entirely not
watchable. The solid cinematography and good use of CGI to not make up
for the nonsensical plot. 

Do yourself a favor and wait on this one. Believe all the bad reviews,
I was anxiously awaiting the release of the film, only to be let down.
Biggest disappointment of the summer by far.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh I tried to ignore the propaganda, I really did, the first two films
of this trilogy are very good films (and not in a back handed "for a
summer blockbuster" sort of compliment), but this is an awful 150
million misstep. This is my 2nd review ever and I don't review things
unless they particularly rub me the wrong way.

I'll be spelling certain words wrong to get around word gagging orders
on IMDb.

War of the Planet of the Apes literally beats you over the head with
this defecation of the human spirit, I'm in awe of how blatantly
forward it is and I love good sci-fi commentary. (Battlestar Galactica
and The Wire are some of my favorite pieces of fiction)

Here in this script we have no sympathy for Harrelson's and humanity's
understandable dilemma as to how to beat a virus that is causing humans
to lose their speech and higher faculties. They don't even have the
balls to have the apes wipe out what's left of the human army as that
would make the apes even more obviously terrible than they already are;
so they have a natural disaster do the job. The blond girl/child that
they carry with them goes to live with the apes, dumb(from the virus)
but happy.......and humanity's downfall is complete. Even though exalt
the child's beauty early in the film! But what is beauty without brains
ultimately?

What great moral lesson was I supposed to glean? That humans are so
terrible that we should walk quietly into the night? Oh look the apes
are thick.....but some of them are funny Totally worth it!

Conversations and plot points are so monosyllabic that it was almost
orgasmic when Woody Harrelson turned up to speak more than than the few
grunts that we hear up to this point and FINALLY gives us a reason to
care.

Bonus points for cultural maxisms (spelled wrong to get around
censorship) is when the blond child cries over the ape who is killed
that she has known for all of two scenes but doesn't even flinch when
her father is killed by said group of apes.

Go out to the beach with your kids, hell even go the beach or lake by
yourself, hell go further, go out when its raining and make some
memories.

Also I'm not the slightest bit Christian and I can see this picture is
blatantly not only anti-Christian but to the non religious out there as
well its this......anti human, anti intelligence
<|_=00=_|>
Pierre Boulle the French novelist wrote Planet of the Apes (Originally
The Monkey Planet). A classic SF novel. In 1968 it was filmed and so
started the cinematic journey which leads to this. I watched Battle for
the Planet of the apes as a young man. I thought that this movie was
going to be along the same lines as that movie. After all, all of the
trailers pitch it as a war between the apes and man. I was really
looking forward to it. I liked the last two movies. They were not as
good as the original series but were still interesting SF movies in
their own right. Also, everything has been better than the Tim Burton
Planet of the apes.

So I put on my 3d glasses and sat down in Wood Green London to watch
the war that would change the face of the planet. So there is a brief
skirmish. Then the head ape Corny (as the plot is) sets out to find
those responsible for doing wrong to him (yawn). Bring on the WAR I
thought. Then they ride around for a bit. Next, we get Escape from
Colditz, the great escape or Prison Break. I am still waiting for the
promised war. At that end, there is a battle. Not against the apes as
they are all escaping. Though unfortunately none of them get on a
motorcycle and try to jump over barriers.

I walked out of the cinema and thought what a pile of dung.

The 3d is pathetic. Really this is a movie that could have been good in
3d but wasn't. It is at least 40 minutes too long. Also, it is not the
movie they promised. There are no wars in it. It is littered with
mistakes. My favourite is the 350-pound gorilla on a horse. No, that
horse would have been dead.

Lastly and this is my normal grump. Why did it not say it was based on
Planet of the apes by Pierre Boulle? No mention of him in this
shamefully bad movie.

I really wanted to like this movie. What I got was a movie that
surpassed Burton's POTA's for the worst one in the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I should have read the reviews here before going to the theatre, would
have saved me the ticket, petrol, and parking.

I must have dozed off at least four times and the plot has more holes
than a slice of Emmental cheese.

No war whatsoever, nada, zero, zilch. Some guerrilla combat(?) and that
was it. The only war I saw was me fighting to keep awake.

Go read a book instead 

1/10
