
Speed 2. Caddyshack 2. Exorcist 2. Star Wars Episode II. These are what
are typically named as the worst direct sequels ever.

Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 may be worse than a quadruple feature of all of
those. I mean it when I say Paul Blart 2 is one of the most unfunny,
moronic, brain cell killing experiences I've had in a cinema. There's
an extended sequence where an old man eats a rotten banana that goes on
for around 15 seconds. The film begins with Blart's elderly mom getting
killed by a milk truck. There's a part where Blart interrupts a stage
show and knocks out all the dancers by spinning around on a rope while
squealing. There's a part where Blart is attacked by and beats an
exotic bird while a piano player nods and smiles (DUDE JUXTAPOSITION
LMAO). There's a entire segment dedicated to showcasing multiple
Checkov's Guns in the form of a mall cop convention (As if those even
existed). I dunno  I didn't enjoy it.

Blart is somehow more unlikable this time around. Rather than a smug
dumbass, he's now a smug asshole. The "film" is 50% him making fun of
people, 30% Blart falling down, 20% plot holes, and 0% funny. I maybe
chucked at some points, but truth is I don't even remember the movie or
what it was I chucked at. I can say for sure there are more helicopter
shots reminding the target audience (Who to be fair also probably need
to be reminded to breathe and blink) that the movie is set in Vegas
than there were chuckles.

You know that rotten banana I mentioned? Paul Blart 2 is that banana,
and the man eating is is the decrepit and moronic public eating up the
film's schlock yet again, probably paving the way for another
opportunity for Adam Sandler and co. to shill even more money out of
Hollywood for his posse. Like my painful experience with Transformers
4, people once again applauded upon conclusion, one elderly couple
saying "That was too funny!"

There's tastes in humor and then there's standards in humor. Paul Blart
2 wasn't unfunny to me because it did not pander to my sense of humor.
If anything it should have; with all the misogyny and ridiculing of fat
people it should have struck my dark humor funny bone. However, there's
no gags, there's no punchlines, there's no jokes. There's also no
emotional backbone, chemistry, or even real characters to back it up.
Characters literally appear and disappear throughout the narrative. I
don't even think the villain had a name. I don't think anyone not buds
with Blart had one.

This time around, not only is Paul Blart a bland copy of Die Hard, but
Taken and Ocean's 11. The plot is a cluster-f of nothing. The first 45
minutes are, like I mentioned, just Blart riding around and getting up
in everyone's faces for "comedic" purposes, with plenty of empty time
given for the target audience to laugh hysterically at like a bad
sitcom. The actual "Paul Blart beating baddies" isn't until the film's
finale, and even then he doesn't actually beat anyone, because all of
his "weapons" are stupidly non-lethal, including a stun gun that only
stuns people for 5 seconds, a gun that shoots gum, a gun that spills
marbles vertically, and a bean bag cannon. Two characters actually fall
asleep in the movie, one of them twice. I felt a kinship to them for
that reason.

There's a romantic subplot with Blart's daughter and a bellhop that
goes literally nowhere and an even more forced "romantic subplot"
between a hotel manager and Blart. She gets progressively wetter and
wetter for him throughout the film, which to me is too far of a stretch
of imagination to comprehend and accept. This also leads to nowhere.
The female cop on the horse in he trailer? That is literally the
ending. Blart himself is beyond unlikable and revolting. He is not
reluctant like John McClain from Die Hard, he craves to be the center
of attention since his saving on the mall 6 years ago became utterly
irrelevant the day after (I wish I could say the same for the movie
itself). He's incompetent, rude, crude, and physically unable to
actually do anything heroic. He'd make a good anti-hero if he wasn't
presented as this humble all American goody two shoes as the movie
does.

The movie doesn't even take place in a mall. What's up with that? With
truly atrocious jokeless dialogue ("I will bring a folk guitar to a
pumpkin fight, because that's how crazy I am!"), beyond unlikable
characters, an incompetent lead, a transparent and personality-less
villain, disappearing subplots, stretched imagination, cliché and trope
filled writing I can say Baul Plart: pop Tart Too is one of the worst
films I've ever seen. Offensively stupid and brash, this blatant
cashgrab managed one seemingly impossible feat, sink even lower than
the previous film. Utterly baffling, this 1.5 hour Wynn commercial (Not
a single scene takes place outside of it once they arrive) is to me the
Transformers 2 of comedy, a wretched anorexic piece with no soul,
craft, or effort put into it at all. The fraction of points I award it
are for the laughs my friends and I had at making fun of it and a
single shot that lasted a third of a second that looked pretty cool.
<|_=00=_|>
Who are theses people who loved this movie. It is a complete waste of
time and any resources required to produce this steaming pile of
garbage. Everyone involved should be ashamed. I ashamed that I watched
it. It cost me a whole 75 cents to rent this disaster and in my history
of bad investments this is definite the worst offense. That is how bad
I think this thing, I can't even call it a movie, is. I can't even
believe I have to write ten lines to have this posted. How many ways
can I say I hated everything about it. The acting was grade school
quality, the plot was nonexistent. To say every bit of cheap comedy and
slap stick was predictable is an understatement. Seriously, I only gave
it one star because that's as low as the ratings go.
<|_=00=_|>
With the reviews here, I was expecting a terrible movie. I probably
wouldn't have bothered with it but it was a free On Demand option
recently. The worst thing about it was the lengthy setup, with plenty
of exposition from the previous film followed by a lot of nothing
before the actual story takes place. Once that began, I thought it had
reasonably funny moments reminiscent of the original. I also
appreciated that it had no memorable profanity that would have made it
unsuitable for children, like so many "family" films these days.
However, it was a one and done film; I don't see subjecting myself to
repeat viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't write reviews very often. I have to feel moved to write one.

I liked the first Paul Blart movie. It was goofy innocent fun.

IMDb can be a joke as people rate and comment on movies they have not
seen. Many of these comments and ratings come even before the movie has
even really been released. Many comments out there were bashing the
first one and saying there was no reason for a second one. But yes,
there was reason for a second one if it is well done.

I will keep it light and avoid spoilers. This movie lacked the charm of
the first one. Paul Blart was likable in the first one. For this one he
was a total buffoon.

In addition, the first one made sense as Paul Blart was the only person
other than the criminals and hostages in the mall as it was closed.
This one takes place in a casino in Las Vegas and everyone knows that
they are open 24 hours a day. Why were the police never contacted? Paul
Blart was never even hired by the casino as security he was only there
for a convention.

Also, the fighting scenes with the bad guys last 15 to 20 minutes. Paul
actually only fights 2 guys on his own.

I really wanted to like this one, but the 3 of us that tried watching
it were all bored.

There are a couple laugh out loud moments and this movie is suitable
for families, but it was awful. Reminded me of the old Dana Carvey
movie the Master of Disguise. Just a moronic stupid movie and not
likable either. Do yourself a favor and leave your Paul Blart memories
with the conclusion of the first movie. This script needed a major
overhaul.
<|_=00=_|>
PAUL BLART MALL COP 2 review by Mike Smith

After six years of keeping our malls safe, Paul Blart has earned a
well-deserved vacation. He heads to Vegas with his teenage daughter
before she heads off to college. But safety never takes a holiday and
when duty calls, Blart answers.

Well the first film wasn't the best movie I have ever seen but it was a
good family movie and I did have some chuckles. On the other hand Paul
Blart Mall Cop 2 was an unbearable watch; the jokes fall flat and they
feel really forced. The first movie was a good family film, but to make
your family watch this god awful sequel is more like torture.

The cast did feel like they had fun making it but I wish I felt the
same way about watching this movie. There wasn't anything good about
the film at all so take my word for it and save yourself some time.
Cheers and remember I watch the crappy movies so you don't have to.

1 out of 10 

edited by Samantha Locke 

twitter: @FatMikeTPK 

facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/FatMikesMovieReviews
<|_=00=_|>
Only two parts were funny. The cape and walking across the street when
he sees a cop on horseback.

Everything else torture beyond words with every cliché you see in all
Happy Madison movies over and over and over.

They always use the same plots only changing the location. Save your
family. Save your time. Save yourself from a complete waste. I am only
writing these lines because you need 10 to post. I just don't want
anyone else to waste their time. I will never , ever watch any happy
Gilmore movie again or one by those affiliated with such. They have
really gotten lazy and lack creativity and imagination in the worst way
and keep running the same plots.
<|_=00=_|>
Although the original "Paul Blart: Mall Cop" was a box office hit, I
don't think anyone was exactly clamouring for a sequel. But here one
is, and it's pretty much like the first movie, namely that it's a comic
take on the formula the action movie "Die Hard" gave birth to. While
there are a handful of gags that this adult did find to be (mildly)
amusing, the humor for the most part is simple-minded and lame, with a
number of gags recycled from the first movie. Kids (YOUNG kids) might
find the humor to be funny, but I think other adults like myself will
sit in silence like I did. Is there anything of merit to be found in
the movie? Well, Kevin James does bring in an instant likability, like
he did in the first movie. But he really needs someone else to write
his material. And the movie looks great, with expert photography and
lighting that makes the colors pop out of your television set. So if
your kids insist on dragging you to see this movie with them, make sure
you get the Blu-ray disc.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I liked of the first Paul Blart movie. It was a cute story with a
humour that was family-friendly, somewhat cheesy but nonetheless,
harmless fun. 

Maybe thats why I had higher expectations for this sequel. But when you
use jokes from the previous movie, you're left feeling robbed. Did they
seriously think we weren't going to notice? Literally the only thing
that changed was the setting, which instead of a mall its a
hotel/casino.

With that said, it does not totally blow. Some funny bits here and
there, cheesy jokes, and action scenes. 

Conclusion: Don't expect to be moved by this film, expect to chuckle
once in a while, and spend 94 minutes watching an typical plot unfold.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Blart is a fat mall security guard who falls down a lot and takes
his job way too seriously. That is what this entire movie, no wait
actually two movies, is based on. I guess we are supposed to find it
funny every single time he falls down on the ground because he is
overweight?

Also he has a silly little mustache so I guess that is also supposed to
make us laugh non stop too. Every single character in these movies is
unbelievable and annoying. The writing is garbage and none of the
predictable jokes are funny.

Please stop making Paul Blart and please stop watching Paul Blart.
These movies will kill your brain.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tried so hard to be funny like the first one. Had a really
cheesy storyline. Paul Blart (Kevin James) the main character was too
slim to fit his old chubby persona. Sloppy writing/bad jokes. Mistake
in the movie at about 1 hr 10 mins (you can see the boomstick)

My summary (OPINION) about the movie Paul Blart (Kevin James) was a
really giddy happy funny character in the first movie, started off
introducing his glaucoma and that he needed sugar every 5 mins or so,
then in this movie it seems to have lessened? The glaucoma somehow got
better (impossible) without medicine.

And he isn't really a "Mall Cop" so to say in this movie.
