
I am not sure what a movie like this is doing in a theater and not on
the Lifetime channel. It's predictable, stupid, and boring. I kept
looking at my watch, hoping it was over soon. Once you have seen a
terrific movie like "Fatal Attraction", a poor man's version of crazy
other woman just won't do. And why is it that a terrific actress like
Rosario Dawson seems to get stuck in poor flicks like this. She
deserves better. Katherine Heigl, not so much.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea of recovering from a broken relationship is one that could
make a very heavy emotional movie. The deep feelings we have for one
another when in love and the discovery that your partner no longer
shares those feelings is lot to bear. But why explore such issues when
you can just make another psycho ex movie.

They must make at least one or two of these every year. However, such
films are not being made because they portray deep themes that resonate
with the audience. They're being made because they're cheap and pretty
much guarantee a return on investment for multi- million (sometimes
billion) dollar movie studios.

With the exception of Rosario Dawson, who gives her role a better
performance than it deserves, no one in this movie even attempts to do
anything compelling with this material. Katherine Heigl's character
seems copied and pasted from her role in Home Sweet Hell (2015).
Although that cinematic experience was also a suckfest, at least it
tried to be something unique. In that film's world, her role as the
stuck up housewife who's willing to do anything (including murder)
worked (within the established parameters). Here, she plays the same
role but in a more grounded universe where you have to seriously wonder
who could possibly marry such an abysmal characterization of a human
being.

I could criticize the movie's pacing if it had any. Each act feels
prolonged far longer than it should be with Heigl repeatedly messing
with Dawson as we wait for Dawson to figure out that her fiance's ex is
truly, unbelievably, Simon Legree evil. When we finally get to the
third act rather than following a natural progression the movie is
dragged there kicking and screaming as it allows characters to discover
things not because it makes sense but because even the filmmakers
finally recognized that this thing must end.

What might be worst of all is that this movie concludes with a bit of
clear sequel baiting. At that point, all I could think was "sure, why
not". Let's get Unforgettable 2. Hell, let's build an Unforgettable
Cinematic Universe with spin-offs and team ups. In that way I hope that
I can leave this particular movie's universe and be sure to never come
back.

In short, if you need some painful dental work done that would be a
much more entertaining expenditure of your time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
Obvious melodrama about a woman being harassed by her fiance's
sociopathic ex-wife, and her own violent ex- boyfriend. Sleazy,
depressing, and is pointlessly​ told through flashback (from six
hyperbolic months earlier) for three quarters of its lazy story, before
jumping ahead another six hyperbolic months for the ending.

Heigl is chilling in this, but everyone and everything else is
laughable.

It was also a bit unclear when this story is taking place, as
characters still have landline phones (along with cell phones) and
still have the newspaper delivered to their front door.

The final " Oh, here we go again " end scene, with the grandmother,
made me shout, " Oh, f*** off! " at the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
A curious note first of all: this is the first movie directed by Denise
Di Novi. She's been a producer for years - I thought I had seen her
name somewhere before, and then it clicked when Tim Burton came to mind
(she's produced many of his best films) - but now, only now, does she
step behind the camera. Why for this? Did the original director walk
away or the producers couldn't find someone? It's not strange to see
that this is a directorial debut, but it is odd to see that this is
made by an industry professional, nay a veteran, and that it's so...
bland. Unforgettable rests in an uncomfortable area: not fun enough to
be a trashy/campy movie like a No Good Deed or Obsessed (perhaps Idris
Elba is the x-factor?), or even like a made-for-TV Lifetime stalker
thriller like Stalked by my Doctor (imagine Eric Roberts in the
Katherine Heigl role!), and it's not unique or interesting enough to be
good.

Actually, that's not wholly fair: Rosario Dawson, as the new lover (and
soon to be fiancé) of the ex-husband of the jilted Heigl character, is
quite good. It's hard for her to be anything else, and she takes a
movie as middling as this as seriously as she would Sin City or Danny
Boyle's Trance or whatever the case. She's here to work, while an
actress like Heigl is here to be in her one quiet-but- crazy-B-word
modus operondi, and Cheryl Ladd (yep, ex Charlies Angels Cheryl Ladd)
is more apt for a Lifetime movie, albeit her profile is just right for
this character of Heigl's mother.

We've seen this all before, even if we think the divorced angle makes
it a little different (only barely, maybe), and as it involves people
of mega privilege it feels distanced from a lot of our lives so the
emotional immediacy will only be there for those who really stretch to
feel it. It's a telegraphed story put upon a movie that somehow has the
even stranger luck, speaking of people behind the camera, of being shot
by Caleb Deschanel(!) Perhaps if you have less than zero things to do
(or are a master at procrastination) and this pops up on a Sunday
afternoon on TV it's passable. But in a theater? Well, let's just say
you'll be 80% of the time dulled, maybe 19% of the time entertained in
that trashy-campy way (which is not a great ratio)... and then the last
1% is a complete WTF last scene ending that made me curse the screen I
was gazing.
<|_=00=_|>
This was not an actual Lifetime film though I'm sure they will show it
at some point. So I thought I'd love seeing Katherine Heigl play a
villain since she hasn't stopped playing Izzy from Grey's Anatomy in
years. She is literally the exact same character in all of her films. I
thought her performance was pretty decent but sadly the part was poorly
written like the rest of the movie. Nevermind that I predicted just by
watching the trailer Katherine's character was going to die in the end
most likely at the hands of Rosario but where is the mystery in
between? There was no suspense, every move was predictable right down
to the end and the end cat fight sucked. The leading male who is cast
basically to play the clueless moron that these cats are fighting over
had no chemistry with Rosario Dawson's character. At one point there's
the most forced and awkward "sex" scene between the two. They both
looked uncomfortable before, during, and after the "sex". Mostly the
film was boring and the pace was ridiculously slow the whole time. My
last complaint is casting Rosario Dawson to play the bambi eyed damsel.
If you cast her as a tough gun toting bitch (Sin City) or a ball
busting boss lady(Unstoppable) I believe that but she's too "hard" for
this role not soft as needed. Same thing happened casting Kristen
Stewart as Bella but I digress. If it's that they wanted a woman of
color do Kerry Washington or better yet Hallie B. They both do the
shaken damsel in distress beautifully. Not the worst film in the psycho
obsessed "fatal attraction" genre but certainly not the best. Pretty
forgettable though ironically enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Nope, it IS forgettable ... predictable and after twenty minutes, just
not that good. The ending? It seems to be pure schlock, no wait, it IS
pure schlock.

You know, I kept waiting for the crescendo, the thrill ride down from
that pivotable moment, SOMETHING, give me something here ... nope,
almost nothing.

De Novi (bad- bad girl) builds a story, fleshes it out right away, then
meanders to a ... what surprise ending? (It was flat ).

You want to like this, the cast is capable, the story deserves twist
and turns not a long boring road trip. The directing is good, but that
is the most you might give her. The acting is good, but the story is
FORGETTABLE!
<|_=00=_|>
I need to write this review quickly before I forget that I even watched
this. Was the title supposed to be a paradox? 

They must not have spent very much money on this film because it shows.
It had the potential as a plot but failed in execution. It seems that
this film wants to be Gone Girl, but you have to actually be able or
want to write a script for that to have happened.

Rosario's character is too weak and needs more lines. 

Heigl's character (I don't remember the name in the film and I'm not
putting effort into remembering) is overly developed. Julia (played by
Rosario) is unfortunately not balanced against this development; this
leaves the viewer feeling too frustrated to root for her. As the
viewer, I feel manipulated into wanting her to finally stand up to
Heigl's character.

This script is too formulaic and insulting to the viewer. For Lifetime,
yes this is fair quality but unacceptable for a WB production in 2017. 

1 star and this is for the styling team that maintained Rosario's wavy
hairstyle.

The film does try to explain why Heigl's character is the way she is,
but this is also as hackneyed as Rosario being a weak abuse victim.
Give me something throughout the rising action so that I am not left
underwhelmed by the climax. Speaking of climax, the sex screen was dry.
I like math so I am all for a formula if it works but this 1+1=2 is not
as exciting as something like a system of equations with nuanced and
dynamic characters vs. these very stale and static ones. Why is the ex
husband so dumb? Is it because he is that self-absorbed that he
couldn't put together that his ex is crazy and capable of madness?
These characters were written so poorly that I really didn't care about
anyone. So if the goal of this film was an exercise in apathy, then
well done!
<|_=00=_|>
Spare yourself from wasting an hour and forty minutes on this miserable
poorly acted snorefest. This is a story that we've seen many times
before. You know the one about the couple in love who are ready to take
the next step in their relationship when suddenly the psychotic ex
comes to make things troublesome for them? We've been there before. It
isn't new ground, nor is it a unique story anymore. This story takes no
effort to make it's self unique from those other films that focused on
this very same plot. Had it been different than the others in some way,
it would have been better. Furthermore, Unforgettable mostly felt like
an evening Lifetime movie and most of the scenes were dreadfully boring
and uneventful. It doesn't even begin to entertain until the last 20
minutes. The saving grace is that it stars not one but two beautiful
leading ladies: Rosario Dawson (Marvel/Netflix's DareDevil and Luke
Cage, Sin City), who was actually the reason I decided to watch this
film in the first place, and Katherine Heigl (Knocked Up, Life as We
Know It). The tension between Dawson and Heigl at times felt forced and
awkward but both did a great job overall. Heigl in her role as the
psychotic Barbie- type really made us believe that she was truly
unhinged. The way she menacingly glares at Dawson in her scenes. The
way you could actually see when her blood begins to boil...she played
the role well. The problem is that even though Heigl and Dawson led the
film, they were bound by the limitations of bad writing, bad directing,
and bad production and no amount of talent from either Heigl nor Dawson
could save this film from it's own failures.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie belongs on lifetime, not a theater. I would demand my money
back if I saw it in a theater. Rosario Dawson does NOT belong in the
damsel in distress role EVER. Poorly written and cast. There was zero
consistency in character development other than Katherine H's role.
This movie was entirely predictable and the fatal scene at the end was
ridiculously laughable comparable to a Shakespearean parody.
<|_=00=_|>
Like so many below par movies, you really have to suspend your
knowledge that people behave logically for it to work. It's always a
sign of lazy writing when the progression of the plot continually
relies on implausible occurrences to advance. There are other problems
that arise which are difficult to overlook. There is hardly a scene in
the movie that the two women aren't together. They seem to spend so
much time together it's difficult to believe they're no related or
living next door to each other. Conjoined twins spend less time meeting
than these two. Of course none of this seems out of the ordinary to The
lead, played by Rosario Dawson. In fact the whole cast seems oblivious
to situations and circumstances that are too far fetched for reason
that any normal person would flag in five seconds.

Rosario Dawson is really the only outstanding cast member in this film.
In spite of the short comings of the film she does a very good job with
her role. Katherine Heigl takes stoic mannerisms to the next level with
a 'Wax works' like performance that would put a store front mannequin
to shame. The rest of the cast is reasonable and given Geoff Stults
character seems to suffer from some form of dysfunction that renders
him oblivious to human feeling and interaction, he does a reasonable
job.

The nuts and bolts of this story are nothing new and a bit laboured
given it's all been done before (on numerous) occasions. It isn't even
a particularly good rendition so I'm oddly surprised its been chosen as
a remake without anything novel being added. There are no surprises
twists or developments you won't see coming a mile off and actually the
pacing here is pretty even from start to finish.

OK as a stand alone movie it isn't bad. Fatal Attraction is really the
standard movies from this category seem to be judged by, but there are
others with varying levels of success. If you've seen any of them, I
would say don't bother this one, as I said, there's nothing new to see
here. If you haven't, give it a shot and you'll probably enjoy it.
