
OK - if you've already seen the movie and hated it, my review won't
change your mind, so move along folks, move along, there's nothing to
see for you here, thanks.

Now for you, dear film fan, who is about to watch 'The Hateful Eight',
but who is now slightly worried because of some very mixed critical
reactions - for YOU I'm writing this 100% spoiler-free review.

Judging from many comments here on IMDb and other forums, I gather that
many long-time Tarantino fans apparently don't like his newest film. I
had feared such a reaction as soon as I had finished watching the
movie. It's obviously Tarantino's least accessible effort yet, and
there's a number of reasons for that, not the least of which being that
this is simply not the film most people expected (or felt they were
promised). So if you haven't seen it yet and you're a bit doubtful
because of the negative reviews, let me tell you: you'll likely end up
loving it - as I did - IF you prepare yourself juuuust a little. And
because I really liked the movie, I would like to help you do that via
a short list of recommendations. Ready? Here it goes:

1. Don't go watch 'The Hateful Eight' expecting a "classic" Western. It
might belong to the Western genre, but if all that talk about Ultra
70mm Panavision had you thinking of lush outdoor scenery, vast
landscapes or anything resembling a Sergio Leone movie, you'll end up
disappointed. There are a few nice shots showing snowy mountains, but
95% (perhaps more) of the story unfolds indoors (in one single room) -
which isn't to say that the cinematography isn't absolutely fantastic.
In fact, it's more than fantastic: it's stunning and worthy of an
Oscar.

2. Don't expect any exciting "action" scenes (for lack of a better
word: I don't mean the 'Fast & Furious' kind of action scenes) every 10
minutes or so; in fact, don't expect anything other to happen between
the characters than dialog for a loooooong time. Unlike in Tarantino's
previous films where we got almost "spoiled" by unexpected over-the-top
moments in nearly every scene (except maybe for 'Jackie Brown' and
'Deathprooof'), this film has a very, very slow build. But: that's not
to say it ISN'T exciting (or that nothing does happen) - it's just that
the excitement and tension result mainly from the dialog and the
excellent performances by the cast (at least for roughly two thirds of
the movie).

3. Best approach this film as you would theater; for that's what 'The
Hateful Eight' really is: a stage play disguised as a movie. A stage
play of a "Who-Done-It" murder mystery with a touch of Agatha Christie.
But then again, that's also a disguise, for the murder mystery is just
a ploy to cast a look at a torn society rife with racial tension after
the civil war. Which, of course, again serves as an allegory for racial
relations in modern-day America and as the director's angry commentary
on how hateful that situation still is today, on all sides. Now that
sounds awfully serious, but don't worry; despite some hard-to-stomach
ugliness and the highly political undercurrent, there is plenty of
Tarantino's trademark humor throughout the whole film.

4. Don't expect to find a likable character you can root for. There's a
reason for the film's title, and unlike in all his previous films,
there is not a single person in Tarantino's latest movie you'll feel
any real sympathy for. All the main characters have committed
despicable, hateful acts, and they're all beyond redemption - but that
doesn't mean they're not compelling to watch (especially given THIS
cast: everyone is fantastic, but Jackson, Russell, Jason Leigh and
Goggins are just a joy to watch).

5. Don't expect a complex plot. In my opinion, among Q.T's films this
is the one with the most straight forward and most simple plot to date,
yet at the same time it's arguably his most complex - and most
ambitious - film.

So, dear film fan, that's it: adhere to these here 5 "commandments",
and there's a big chance you'll end up loving Mr. Banana Chin's latest
oeuvre as much as I did (mind; you might love the film just as much
without taking any of the above advice). I admit, it took me a while to
get into this dialog-heavy stage play and would-be Western, but once I
did, I never looked back (and I can hardly wait to watch it again). 9
stars out of 10.

P.S. (for new IMDb users): If you want to get a better reference
whether this review might be valid for you or not, just click on my
user name and you'll see what kind of films I like.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is too well crafted to get the really low scores, the
cinematography is too good, the acting too high caliber, the direction
too solid, the score too nice, and the flick too engaging for such
ratings.

This also applies to the other end. The "twists" are unimportant and
add no spice, the pacing just slogs along, the joy too nonexistent, the
characters evoke too little emotion either way, the story too light on
satisfaction, the story telling too inconsistent, the length too
needless,the magic (other than on the technical side) too absent, and
the rewatchability too minimal for me to see greatness but maybe a
second viewing will change my perspective but it will definitely be on
video for me, only the lure of a hot date fixated on going could get me
into the theater again other than maybe just for the experience a 70mm
screening.

I'm a pretty avid Tarrentino fan but I didn't overly enjoy this effort.
I more appreciate it and can't say I wasn't engaged but I also can't
say that I'm eager to see it again and worse for the first time I have
little inclination to do so with a flick by Q.

A generous 7/10 (rounding up from 6.5) for me but I could see ceiling
of 8 and a basement of 4 at the lowest.
<|_=00=_|>
If your willing to jump on the bandwagon and avoid this movie just
because a couple of thin skinned reviewers are complaining about all
the blood and all the "n-words", then you might as well just shovel
your money into Disney's pockets and see star wars because that's the
movie for you. This is the first real piece of cinema that has come to
the theaters this year; with all the audacity, the balls, and the
fearless will to show anything on screen that real filmmakers are brave
enough to commit themselves to. If all these negative reviewers would
just look past the blood and the guts, they would find a truly
masterful piece of cinematic art that reflects both the expertise and
effort that went into making it. The storyline is a simple one, but
it's told in a complex, interesting, and relatively unique way that is
guaranteed to keep your eyes glued to the screen throughout the entire
3 hour run time of the movie. Tarantino's direction is unparalleled as
usual, and the performance of the entire cast combined with the
wonderful cinematography and deeply engaging dialogue make for a
remarkably fun time at the theater, if your willing to sit through a
lot of grisly violence and mean spirited subject matter. And although
many people are complaining about the heavy political undertones of the
film's storyline, to me that is one of the main components of this film
that stands out the most. The plot of this film serves not only as a
compelling metaphor for the racial tension amongst the American people
immediately following the civil war, but actually manages to outline
the visceral anger and unpredictability of the racial tension that the
American people are facing today within society. In a world hell bent
on purporting sensitivity and being politically correct, it's nice to
see a movie that's willing to raise a middle finger to that social
stigma so as to hold a mirror to the racial confrontations that are
still plaguing the American people to this very day. Obviously this
film is undoubtedly the most sick, twisted, and violent of Tarantino's
filmography, and I'm willing to admit that it's not for everybody, but
for those of you willing to toughen up, keep your trigger happy
insecurities in check, and enjoy a mean, gritty, and badass film that
offers no apologies for what it does best I highly recommend this film.
And for those of you who are willing to let Tarantino's comments about
the police force get in the way of your enjoyment of this film, like I
said; Disney is more than willing to take your hard earned money.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a short review I am forced to write after noticing the critics
and the haters. Hateful Eight is another Tarantino masterpiece. It may
be similar to his previous movies, but great directors don't come often
and in a single life they can make only so many films. Now if Tarantino
decides to make another 'Tanrantino' western with all the fine work
thrown in as in his other films, I am no one no complain. This guy is a
legend and I am privileged to see the handful of movies he will make in
his lifetime. Even if he makes similar movies a dozen times, I would
still watch it, cause this guy knows filmmaking at its finest. Hateful
Eight is a blizzard of fine acting, fine dialogue, humor, darkness,
snow and that incredible eye for perfection and storytelling. 

Go damn watch it and be prepared to be a told a western story Tarantino
style.
<|_=00=_|>
Even tho i was expecting more action, I've found myself at the edge of
my seat at times. The characters were nicely developed. The dialogue
was as expected from a Tarantino movie. The story is 3 hours long, it
takes place mostly in a one single room and it's still not boring.
That's something not everyone can do. All of the actors we're perfect
for their roles and the acting was great as well as the character
design, all of the characters were memorable and well written. The
movie is divided into chapters in most of which a small twist takes
place that makes you more interested in the movie. I enjoyed the film
but my biggest flaws were the length and the spontaneous introduction
of a narrator mid- movie, that was a pretty 'out of nowhere' lazy way
to develop the back story, but oh well, Tarantino is known for making
risks and doing crazy sh*t
<|_=00=_|>
So I've finally seen this much talked about film and I have to say I
was a bit disappointed. The H8 is a 168 min long movie which is
described as a sort of mystery thriller and a lot a noise was made
(mainly by Quentin himself) when the script leaked early and therefore
would harm the box office chances of this flick. The movie did indeed
not make big waves money wise but that was mainly because the overly
long movie does actually not amount to much story wise. In other words
there is no real clue. The dialogue, normally the strongpoint of
Tarantino films, is actually not that great. Conversations are drawn
out without the characters actually saying anything. It does help a lot
that we do get a great cast (Kurt Russel, Sam L Jackson and Jennifer
Jason Leigh) because without them the movie would fall apart rather
quickly. The film was shot on 2,76:1 70mm widescreen because retro
elitist Tarantino thinks digital isn't good enough and I do have to say
the snowy landscape shots look awesome but they make up only 2% of the
flick. The rest of it is in a cabin where standard 35mm or even a
digital camera could have perfectly captured the images. About the
music I can be short: there is almost none. It' might have been
composed by Moricone who unrightfully got an Oscar for it, but it does
not add much here in this film. I'm glad I didn't see it on the big
screen. It works just as well on the small screen, maybe even better
coz you can pauze it to get more booze and a snack. So despite my
rather harsh comments I would recommend it but know that this is far
from Tarantino's best work.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, that alone could be enough, but i must add something to the
summary. first of all, i love (almost) every Tarantino movies. all but
"death proof" and obviously this one. i didn't need to get as far and
into the homestead, i was already bored while still riding into the
forest. that's when i had "death proof" bad memories coming up. but i
thought: "hey, there's still two and a half hours to go, give the man a
chance..." and i did. and i regret every minute of it. and for every
wasted minute (there are at least 120 of them), the angrier i did get.
it was terrible. if i didn't have to wake my girlfriend up i would have
been out of the cinema after 90 minutes. have you ever heard of many
people falling asleep the first time they watched a Tarantino movie?
but it did get worse, and then worserer, and then more, and more, and
more. i don't know what the master was thinking, or doing. i won't use
offensive language, although i think i am entitled to it, since i drove
almost two hours to watch this, whatever it was, on the first night it
was released, as i usually do with all of his movies. all i can say is:
"even the master had a bad night at the office". we all had one of
those and it can happen to anyone. only difference is that a few
millions were watching... it. Mr.Tarantino will have to make amends on
the next one('s), or it will loose us, the fans that made him (very
rich) who he is. if by any chance anybody will read this and still go
and watch this movie, let me know. i do have a dungeon that cater for
you, the true masochist... cheers...
<|_=00=_|>
This movie just goes to show what happens when a director is given
totally free reign in terms of script and running time, purely on
account of his name. Tarantino has always been a fan of long
conversational sections in his movies, but where they were engaging,
entertaining and scalpel-sharp in the likes of Reservoir Dogs, Pulp
Fiction and Jackie Brown, here they are just interminably long, boring
and dull. 

For the first time EVER, my girlfriend actually fell asleep in the
cinema watching this bore-fest of a film, and that was way before the
interval arrived. Talking of which, there was an audible groan that
went up from the audience when the interval sign turned up on the
screen, and not because everyone was soooo enthralled ; more that
everyone was just willing it to end. While we were kicking our heels
during the interval, I overheard the guy behind me say, "this is
clearly Tarantino's Phantom Menace", while another guy was heard to
say, "hmmm, after an hour and half at least SOMETHING usually happens
in a movie". After an intriguing first 15 mins, nothing (and I mean
NOTHING) of any note happens for the remainder of the first half of the
film. The dialog is also painfully predictable in places. More than
once, a conversation would start and I knew how it would end within the
first couple of seconds...and yet the characters on screen would take
several minutes to get there. Truly painful stuff.

The swearing, the liberal use of the "N" word, and the violence (when
it eventually arrives after hours of plodding and highly unrealistic
chit-chat), are not the problem with this film in my opinion. After
all, this is a Tarantino movie which (while coming across as all rather
juvenile), is designed for adults, so adult language and themes should
surprise absolutely no-one. The problem is purely the fact that it's
just too bloody long for such a threadbare plot! If this movie came in
at somewhere between 1.5 and 2 hours, then it would've been just about
OK (still not great, but OK at best), but at over 3 hours it's just a
director's masturbation piece. It desperately needs a NON-Director's
Cut to trim at least an hour out of the first half. There's a line in
the movie where Samuel L Jackson's character says, "Let's slow this
down. Let's slow it way down"... and at that point I physically curled
my toes in my shoes, thinking please god, don't make this any slower!
Watching this movie is an ordeal, almost as punishing as what the old
General's son has to go through at the "business end" of Jackson's
"Johnson"!

Granted, the second half is a little more engaging, but unfortunately
by that point the damage has already been done by forcing the audience
to sit through the turgid load of garbage that comprises the first
half. But just when things are potentially looking up, Tarantino
decides to feature an appearance by Zoe Bell who must have a fantastic
chance of being crowned 'The Least Convincing Actress Ever To Grace The
Silver Screen'! She is a truly atrocious performer, who's apparently
picked up no additional acting skills since her abysmal showing in the
marginally better Death Proof. If grinning inanely and reading a few
lines like a child in a school play is "acting" then sign me up for an
Oscar please.

By the way, how the hell did this thing cost $62m to make? Apart from a
few outdoor scenes, the whole thing takes place in one room in a log
cabin! So much for making the most out of the much vaunted 70mm format
which is perfect for grand landscape vistas...and entirely wasted on
indoor scenes.

In many ways this film comes across as all rather childish. Here
Tarantino seems like a first-year film school student who's been given
a camera (and a 70mm one at that), free reign to use some "fruity"
language, and the keys to the fake-blood cupboard. I'm almost surprised
he didn't try to shoehorn a couple of naked women into the movie as
well...

In short, this is by far and away the worst movie Tarantino has ever
made, and if it hadn't been made by him it would have a rating far
lower than 8/10 on here. (In fact, after seeing page after page of 1
and 2 star ratings, I'm completely at a loss as to where the (current)
8/10 rating comes from!?). All I can say is if you INSIST on seeing
this plodding mess, wait until it comes out on Blu-Ray and watch it in
the comfort of your own home over the course of, say, three or four
evenings with several espressos. If you're really lucky you may be able
to stay awake through the whole lot if you watch it like that.
Otherwise....sweet dreams.
<|_=00=_|>
To begin, if you want to make it through the whole film in one sitting
it's best if you are locked and loaded with caffeine or some form of
amphetamine because it is very slow, very long, and very boring. Don't
get me wrong, I'm a big QT fan and usually enjoy the great slow, long
and creative dialog in his films, but sadly the "great and creative"
doesn't exist here. Normally I can't wait for his next film to come
out, but even after seeing the trailer a couple months back I said "uh
oh, this doesn't look anywhere near up to par." Little did I know what
an understatement of epic proportions that would be.

As other reviewers have pointed out, the single positive aspect was the
beautiful wide landscape and horse drawn carriage scenes. Unfortunately
they only lasted a few minutes in total.

Here are just a few of the things that really stuck out:

- Not a single character (of the main eight) was likable in the least
bit so it never mattered who got killed. Kurt Russell is one of my
favorite actors and I wanted to like or root for him but even he
couldn't save this stinker. After a short amount of time I was wishing
everyone would start killing one another so this travesty would come to
an end.

- At an early point I got the feeling QT made a bet with someone to see
if he could outdo himself by using the "N" word more times than in
Django. Or, more likely he has a sick fetish and loves to hear the word
as often as possible. Needless to say it is overwhelmingly painful
having to unnecessarily hear it hundreds of times. "But wait!" the
blind loyal Tarantino Kool-aid drinking followers will say, "it was
extremely racist back then and he's just being authentic to the times!"
Well in that case riddle me this: how is it that Sam Jackson along with
everyone else had perfect straight white Hollywood teeth which we got
multiple close- ups on??? If he was trying to be authentic all those
pearly whites would have been closer to gruesome than the straight,
white perfection we saw. Ever see Barry Pepper's character in the last
"True Grit"? Now that was realistic! There are plenty of other similar
things even slightly perceptive viewers will pick up on which were
simply wrong and out of place for the times. You'll see for yourself if
you decide to mosey on down this steaming poop trail.

- Speaking of which and it doesn't last long, but as much as I love Zoë
Bell her Kiwi accent and NZ background here were also completely out of
place and just plain wrong. Not nearly as bad as the pathetic attempt
Tarantino made in Django at an Aussie accent but still completely
unreal for the setting. (At least he didn't include Jonah Hill in this
one.)

- I don't even know where to begin with the full blown gay BJ scene out
in the snow. Many will most likely chalk it up to a typical Tarantino
shock value type of situation and he probably believes it's wild and
crazy and original, but it ends up as just another sad attempt at
trying to be any of those things. Either that or maybe he has more
personal fetishes he wants to portray to us (yet again) on screen?

- Last but not least, there's a whole narration scene which was so
completely unnecessary it was insulting and offensive to the viewers'
intelligence. This, along with the regurgitated "chapter" style setup
appears to be him struggling to get back to the success and originality
of Pulp Fiction or Kill Bill, but simply ends up firing blanks. There
were no surprises in the least bit, everything was completely
predictable, and the casual viewers and hardcore fans alike who are
honest with themselves will be offended and want their money and 3
hours of wasted life back. That is, unless you passed out like a few
others I saw do halfway during my screening.

With this spectacular regurgitated catastrophe watching the snow melt
for the three hours wasted would have been more pleasurable and
exciting than this debacle. Go and see "The Revenant" if you want a
real masterpiece. Only those who are blind cult followers should gorge
for hours on this yellow snow.
<|_=00=_|>
You'd have to go back 80 years or so to the film adaptation of Sidney
Kingsley's Dead End to find a film where the set qualifies as a living
participant of the action. The house in the adaption of the Eugene
O'Neill classic Long Day's Journey Into Night also qualifies here.

The action is set up when the stagecoach where bounty hunter Kurt
Russell is taking his prisoner Jennifer Jason Leigh to the town of Red
Rock to be hung. A couple of prairie hitchhikers also come on board
another bounty hunter Samuel L. Jackson and Walton Goggins son of a
former Confederate general who says he's the new sheriff in the town of
Red Rock. Kurt Russell replete with full flowing beard and mustache is
one suspicious man. He has those suspicions justified before the film
is ended.

80% of the action takes place on set of the 19th century bed and
breakfast during the time of a nasty Wyoming winter and does the dialog
crackle. If you think you're going to see a western the kind that John
Ford or Howard Hawks or Henry Hathaway did back in the old days, then
don't watch The Hateful Eight. Hateful is the operating word with these
characters, there's nothing really noble about any of them.

Besides the set of Minnie's Haberdashery to recommend it, Quentin
Tarrantino selected a truly fine ensemble cast who play beautifully off
each other. As the outlaw queen Jennifer Jason Leigh got a Best
Supporting Actress nomination, but in my humble opinion she doesn't
stand out any more than any of the rest of them. The Hateful Eight also
earned Ennio Morricone an Oscar for the best musical score for 2015.

The Hateful Eight is a great western, but it ain't your grandpa's kind
of western.
