
While trying to bury his acorn, Scrat accidentally activates an
abandoned alien ship that takes him into deep space, where he
unwittingly sends several asteroids en route to a collision with Earth.

Meanwhile, Manny is worried about the upcoming marriage between Peaches
and her fiancé, Julian, while Diego and his wife Shira want to start a
family but their fierce appearance tend to scare kids, and Sid is
dumped by his girlfriend, Francine, just as he is about to propose to
her. During Manny and Ellie's wedding anniversary party, some of the
asteroids strike the place and the herd barely escape with their lives.
Meanwhile, at the underground cavern, Buck returns a dinosaur egg back
to its rightful owner after it was stolen from a trio of Dromaeosaurs
led by their father Gavin, only to discover an ancient stone pillar,
which he takes to the surface, where he meets Manny and the others.

Buck explains to the herd that according to the pillar, the asteroids
had caused several extinctions in the past and with a massive one still
incoming, he claims that the only place they could find a clue to stop
it is on the site of the impact of the previous ones, as according to
its engravings, they always fall at the same place. However, the three
Dromaeosaurs, having listened their conversation, decide to stop them,
believing that they could be safe from the impact, as they can fly,
thus not only getting their revenge on Buck, but also killing all
mammals and securing domination over Earth for their species.

As the herd travels to the crash site, they discover that the asteroids
have electro-magnetic properties, thus if a huge quantity of smaller
asteroids should be gathered and launched into orbit, they could
attract the main asteroid as well and prevent it from falling on Earth.
After facing several obstacles and the interference of the
Dromaeosaurs, the herd arrives at "Geotopia", a community of animals
formed inside one of the asteroids that have fallen long ago, where Sid
meets Brooke, a female ground sloth who falls in love with him.
However, Shangri Llama, the leader of Geotopia, refuses to cooperate
with Buck's plan to send the city's crystals into space in order to
prevent the imminent impact, as they are the key to the residents'
longevity, until Sid unwillingly destroys the entire city when he
attempts to remove one of the stones to present Brooke with, making all
the Geotopians grow old up to their real ages, including Brooke
herself.

Once Brooke convinces the Geotopians that preventing the asteroid's
fall is more important than their lost youth, they and the herd help
with Buck's plan, which is to fill up a geyser with the crystals so
that the pressure launches them into space to draw the asteroid away,
but the Dromaeosaurs attempt to intervene, until one of them, realizing
that they will not survive as well if the asteroid falls, convinces the
others to also help. The plan works, and the asteroid is pulled back
into space. The herd then departs back home, including Sid, who parts
ways from Brooke, but just after they leave, an asteroid piece falls
inside a hot spring, giving it rejuvenating properties and making the
Geotopians and Sid's granny, who stayed behind with them regain their
youth. After the herd returns, Peaches and Julian celebrate their
wedding, Diego and Shira become heroes to the kids who were scared of
them before, and a rejuvenated Brooke appears during the ceremony to
reunite with Sid.

In the film's epilogue, Scrat keeps struggling to control the alien
ship until it crashes on Mars, destroying all life on the planet.
<|_=00=_|>
People need to chill about this movie! Like, seriously, based on all
the negative comments I've seen, I've come to the conclusion that
people have a tremendous lack of sense of humor! This movie is not to
be taken seriously, to be analyzed, or to be hated upon - it is to be
ENJOYED! I laughed my a** off :D The characters are absolutely
adorable, as usual,the voicing is brilliant! I loved everything about
it (obviously) and I don't know why I felt the need to come here and
read the comments...I always seem to make that mistake. All in all, I
had a great time, planning to watch it at least another 3 times :D
*need to have 10 lines of text*
<|_=00=_|>
From the first minute, it's clear that the writers are really desperate
to bring out fresh ideas, but it just comes across as purely that;
desperation. It borders on the ludicrous. My kid watched on silently,
but I never heard her laugh once. Not good for a comedy. It's dull.
It's ridiculous. It's way over the top, even for a animated kids film
with talking mammoths. It's just plain stupid. This series has reached
its end. I really hope it's over but I hear there's another in the
works. While there's still a modicum of profit, the machine keeps
churning. It's really sad, and an insult to the first few films, which
were fun and fresh. Let it die. It's begging to be put down.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, ice age 1 was hilarious and a new standard for animation humor;
together with Shrek, that came a year earlier. But where Shrek kept
pretty consistent through the sequels (the attack of the princesses in
part 3 was a absolute high in animation comedy), Ice Age dropped away
further each sequel. Shrek stopped in time, Ice age should have stopped
after 3. Continental drift was already hardly worth watching.

This latest sequel is maybe one of the worst animation movies ever. The
story-line is horrible and it is simply not funny. The writers are
clearly struggling to make up a story the use all clichés they can
find. Even Scrat is not funny most of the time, although he lifts the
rest of the movie up.

Will kids like this movie? Probably, but it lacks the wonder and
quality of the first Ice Age. An Ice Age fan better avoids this movie
<|_=00=_|>
My youngest would watch a movie so many times you would start to quote
it in your sleep. But when the film is as great at the Ice Age movies,
you don't mind. I was concerned that this one could not be as hilarious
as the others and I am so glad I was worried for nothing. Until now
"Dawn of the Dinosaurs" was our family's go to Ice Age movie, but this
one is even better... and I didn't think that was possible. In addition
to having lots of silly laughs for the kids, there is a ton of great
humor - great clean humor - just for adult belly laughs. And an actual
plot, which some kids movies tend to forget. It has such a strong,
positive, family message. Every member of our family agrees that this
is one to own, each of us for different reasons. So here is a huge
thumbs up from our gang, ages 7 to 42.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh that was a surprise. I'm a fan of ice age movie series. Honestly i
didn't like the previous ice age at all. 

The old granny is so cool. And the other kids. 

This movie! Oh man this is so good to be happy and laugh like a baby.
Story wasn't so bigger or complex but it's OK. To bad that stupid
adults giving awful reviews. It's a kid movie. So don't listen to old
people. I really liked this.

Oh come on people, why giving 1 star? You grumpy old donkeys stop this
nonsense. Don't try to give your rude opinion on internet.

And the soundtrack that Jessie J made. This was awesome. I'm thinking
to watch this again and i will .
<|_=00=_|>
The fifth Ice Age installment to come out in theatres, Blue Sky Studios
has once again made me love this franchise. After the cute yet
sometimes cringe-worthy Secret Life Of Pets and the good yet slightly
overrated Finding Dory, I was expecting another typical average
everyday kids movie, but what I got was a really funny family flick
full of laughs for all ages. The whole theater was in stitches from how
much they were laughing and giggling! The animation is amazing, from
the photorealistic textures of the animals to the colorful backgrounds
full of purplish vibe, and it makes great use of 3D effects, with
countless gimmicks being thrown towards the audience and a fantastic
sense of space in almost every shot of the movie. The voice actors are
all energetic and they fit their characters perfectly, with Simon Pegg
and Chris Wedge's priceless comedic performances. Overall, Ice Age:
Collision Course is the only animated film worth seeing this year other
than Zootopia, with everything you could possibly want from an animated
family comedy. And by the way- Scrat is again the most hilarious
portion of an already hilarious film!
<|_=00=_|>
"Ice Age: Collision Course" is the fifth Ice Age movie in the
adventures of the ice Age crew. Once again the earth is about to
collide and they're set to save the world. This time a huge asteroid
coming towards the earth and Manny, Sid and Diego joins up with Buck
who have a crazy idea to save the world.

The fifth Ice Age film is probably the worst and hopefully the last
film in the movie-series. It has gone to far. I remember the first
movie to have a charm the other movies couldn't obtain. Anyway the
movie had a few funny moments, but the story and the cheesy characters
and humour just made this worse than I had expected. I miss the old
grumpy Manny and the slink Diego. They have changed a lot since we meet
them first time back in 2002. the whole world have changed from being
an ice cold almost desolate landscape to a green and populated place
where all the animals act like humans. Not like they did in the first
move, and that have me thinking why this movie went so wrong. I really
hope they're not making more sequels to this, because they've killed
the universe I once saw as one of the best animated movies. The
animation failed nothing. It's beautiful and have lots of details. But
I think it's sad the story was so bad and cheesy.

"Ice Age - Collision Course" is not a movie i enjoyed. They should have
stopped making these movies after the second. Not a good movie. 

"Ice Age - Collision Course" gets 4/10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Before I begin this review, let me state that I have IBS. For those of
you who do not know, IBS stands for Irritable bowel syndrome. This
diagnosis causes me to have very impulsive, and often inexcusable
bathroom troubles.

On to the review. I have to just say, wow. Ice Age: Collision Course,
being the 5th installment of this animated franchise, is still as good
as it gets while Blue Sky has a say in it. Sure, some people may say
that the last thing a franchise does is launch its characters into
space before its torn apart, but Blue Sky has once again found a way to
picture its beloved Cg characters in a fresh, and beautiful light.

The animation was as beautiful as ever, the fur seems to be better
facilitated- simulated and cached with each film, and of course, being
in space, Blue Sky had the opportunity to take its effect simulations
to outside of the planet, itself.

The work that Blue Sky put into this film, in my opinion, may have even
been too beautiful. I got a bit too excited and had to run to the
bathroom about 2/3 into the animation, causing me to miss a pivotal
moment. If there was one problem with my experience watching the new
Ice Age, its that I had to watch it with Irritable Bowel Syndrome.

-Henry
<|_=00=_|>
Original is not a word that comes to mind when watching the fifth (yes
FIFTH) entry in this tired, worn, quite frankly burned out franchise.

What does come to mind however is the fact this franchise has gone on
for far too long.

If you can't come up with any original ideas and you have to scrap the
deepest barrel for the most unoriginal idea as possible, it's time to
go.

If you can't keep your characters fresh and funny and make them more
boring, dull and annoying to watch, it's time to go.

If you're out of jokes to use and you pull some random rabbit out of a
hat and it's a rabbit that says "Think of some really bad jokes mate.",
it's time to go.

If you have 4 (yes, I do mean 4) writers and not one of them can give
any good dialogue out, it's time to go.

And when a franchise that is constantly dead in the water is still
going like THIS, it's time to go.

I don't care if these films still make money, Fox, it's time to put
this franchise on ice forever!
