
Set against the beautiful Pacific Northwest backdrop, Captain Fantastic
is easily one of the most nuanced films to come to mainstream cinema in
the last few years. It's main plot addresses the struggle when everyone
has the best intentions but not the same values. Additionally, the film
makes honest and straightforward comments on controversial issues in
today's society that are often taboo in the media such as mental
illness, the hypocrisy of children's exposure to violence and sex,
religion, and the flaws in the American education system. This sounds
heavy and uncomfortable but these issues are paralleled in such a way
that parts of the film had us in tears; from laughing so hard. Director
Matt Ross says the project started as an exaggerated exploration of the
difficult choices that must be made in regards to raising children in
today's society. I think the film goes a step further and awakens an
internal dialogue in each of it's viewers about the way that we live
our own lives based on societal influences. Furthermore, the
performances given by the perfectly arranged cast enhance your
investment in the story in a way that will cause you to question what
right and wrong really are when you're only trying to do your best and
do what you think is best for those that you love.
<|_=00=_|>
Aesthetically on high-level, questioning the most important points of
human life and importance of verbal, mental, physical, social,
emotional development and the inability of developing them all on the
same level. There are so many factors that influence one's development.
And there is space for many mistakes.

High quality acting. Viggo Mortensen gives one of his best
performances, a devoted father that wants only the best for his kids,
an authority, a leader, a teacher, loving, loyal husband, a grieving
human with tough, determined, honest attitude he transmits to his
children. Kids, from the youngest to the oldest, act with such
naturalness that you simply dive in this masterfully-made journey.

Film doesn't show how one should live and not live because both sides
are flawed. Internal and external conflicts make you question the
reality of the present, giving you space to find your own balance of
how one should live.

I personally started thinking of how there is a massive space for
improvement in every field of our lives. An example is school. And how
devastating it is that one could neglect the knowledge at that extant.
Kids need to be inspired and motivated to learn. And more important is
that they have to build inner-motivation that will make them interested
and ambitious as they improve the world around them. And of course kids
can't be accused for not wanting to learn if the teachers don't show
them how and why to love their subject. And of course parents to
support them.

This (above) is just one point of where this movie has taken my
entranced mind.

This is a movie for every generation. It needs to be noticed, it
deserves to be talked about, and discussed. Because that is the point
of Captain Fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it worth the price of a movie ticket? Yes!

I felt that this film was captivating in all aspects of story-telling.
Especially in it's acting where all characters in the film did a superb
job with special mention to Viggo Mortensen (Ben - Father) and George
Mackay (Bo - Eldest Son). This film depicts the difficulty of parenting
at the highest level as Ben has to raise his 6 children in the
wilderness alone in the way he thinks will be best for them. Bo shows
the rational side of this story as he accepts who he is, how he was
raised, and who he wants to become in the future. We clearly see the
struggle of a young man who will take care of his siblings yet long for
a life he has never known. This was my first time seeing George MacKay
on the big screen with a big part and he certainly did not disappoint.
His performance along with Viggo Mortensen was the perfect balance for
the film.

The realness and rawness of this film aligns perfectly with Ben's
choice in parenting and survival instincts in the wilderness. We are
easily immersed into the idea that civilization and it's systems of
government are toxic and that we as a people who take part in it are
living the wrong life. A film that can manipulate at such a high degree
is a great example of a film with a genius plot.

The cinematography was beautiful as to be expected. Our setting for
most of the film is in the Pacific Northwest and it was a pleasure to
see that they didn't saturate the screen with wide aerial shots of the
forest and mountains throughout the film. Instead they focused more on
the home within the mountains. Details highlighting living spaces
indoors and outdoors was a beautiful contrast to the another setting
later in the film. Kielyr "This house is a vulgar display of wealth"
Vespy "and an unethical use of space!". I believe the cinematographer &
director chose not to concentrate on details of the luxurious house as
they did with the home in the forest. Mostly shot on wides to display
its enormity and that was all that was needed.

The soundtrack I felt fit perfectly with the film. Times of quiet were
also used very well here. The editing was seamless and kept the story
moving perfectly.

I take my hat off to Matt Ross for a genius script that focuses on
ideas of socialism, the complexities of human relationships, and coming
of age story. With his role as director, he was able to execute the
overall emotional effect of the viewer with the film's well balanced
blend of comedy and pathos.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. There seems to be no end to the
theories on how to be an effective parent and raise kids who are
productive, well-adjusted and successful. Writer/director Matt Ross
offers up a creative, entertaining and thought-provoking story of one
family's unconventional approach in a world that seems to expect and
accept only the conventional.

We are first introduced to Ben (Viggo Mortensen) and his six kids as
they are stalking a deer while deep in the Pacific Northwest forest 
only this isn't your buddy's weekend deer hunting trip. Each family
member is covered head-to-toe in mud and other means of camouflage, and
the oldest son Bodevan (George MacKay) takes the lead with his knife in
what is presented as a rite of passage into manhood.

The family carries out a daily ritual that includes extreme physical
conditioning, lessons on survival and living off the land, and advanced
education that includes reading such diverse material as Dostoevsky and
Lolita. Each evening is capped off with an impromptu musical jam. It's
evident that self-sufficiency, intelligence and family loyalty are
crucial to Ben's approach  an approach that is challenged when
circumstances require the family board their Partridge Family bus
(named Steve) and take a cross-country road trip into a civilization
that doesn't know what to make of them (and vice-versa).

The film is jam-packed with social commentary on education, parenting,
societal norms, societal influences, and even grief. Who gets to decide
what is best for a family or what's the best method for education?
Sometimes the dysfunctional family isn't so easy to identify. Director
Ross proves this in a gem of a dinner table scene as Ben and the kids
visit Kathryn Hahn, Steve Zahn and their two sons in suburbia.

In addition to the terrific performance by up-and-comer George MacKay,
the other actors playing the kids are all very strong and believable:
Samantha Isler as Kieyler, Annalise Basso as Vespyr, Nicholas Hamilton
as Rellian, Shree Crooks as Zaja, and Charlie Shotwell as Nai. Screen
vets Frank Langella and Ann Dowd bring presence to the role of their
grandparents and provide the greatest contrast to the off-the-grid
existence of the kids.

Viggo Mortensen truly shines here and gives a performance full of grace
and depth as he displays many emotions (some of which aren't so
pleasant). He even goes full-Viggo for one of the film's many humorous
moments  though the comedy is balanced by plenty of full scale drama.
His best work comes in the scenes when he begins to question that there
may be some flaws in his plan  the moments of self-realization are
stunning.

Many will note some similarities between this film and Little Miss
Sunshine (2006), though this one carries quite a bit more heft. It's
beautifully photographed by cinematographer Stephane Fontaine (A
Prophet, Rust and Bone) and captures the danger and solitude of the
forest, while also capturing the more personal family dynamics. It's a
film that should generate plenty of discussion, and one of the
questions is  will Noam Chomsky Day ever match Festivus in popularity?
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this in Sundance earlier in the year, and was captivated by
the storytelling, acting and cinematography.

The story follows Ben (Viggo Mortensen), a father of six, living deep
in the forests of the pacific northwest, far from modern life. All six
children, from seventeen year old Bodevan to seven year old Nai are
fluent in philosophy, history and quantum theory (!), and can hunt and
fend for themselves in the wilderness. At least that is until the
suicide of their mother forces the family to clash with modern society,
and then Ben realizes that he has in fact not prepared his children at
all for what lies outside their forest. Bodevan, for example, accepted
in a swarm of the top colleges and adept enough to kill a deer
single-handedly, cannot bring himself to talk to a girl without
immediately proposing to her.

The family's ideals further come under stress when his late wife's
father (Frank Langella) who hates the life Ben has created for his
family comes into the picture, and forbids Ben from attending his
wife's funeral, threatening him with arrest. In what could have easily
turned into a one-dimensional harsh/rich character, Frank Langella also
projects empathy and deep grief over his daughter's death. When Ben and
his children visit his sister's much more conventional family, and her
smart phone-obsessed children, Ben criticizes their upbringing, only to
have his sister bring his own parenting skills into question. Director
Matt Ross skillfully presents both sides here without picking
favorites.

Acting-wise the film is captivating, with Mortensen fitting the
renaissance profile of Ben like a glove. He projects all the arrogance
and hardheadedness of Ben together with his warmth, adoration for his
children, and respect for his wife's wishes with grace and subtlety in
one of the most seemingly effortless performances I have seen. He is
also surrounded by an excellent supporting cast, from the children to
his in-laws and sister.

In summary, Captain Fantastic is a rare case where family dynamics,
with their controversies and dilemmas are not oversimplified to a
preaching doctrine in the finale; the film allows the viewer the space
to find their own balance on what it means to raise a child.
<|_=00=_|>
This is simply the best movie I have seen since Shawshank Redemption.
It tells the story of a family living in the wilderness who are forced
to face modern society. Its funny, with a pinch of sad, and a huge
dollop of thought-provoking.

Matt Ross is a genius who has found his voice and style in this film.
The direction is just incredible. The script has all the fluff stripped
out so it moves along at a great pace. It is edited to perfection so
every scene draws you further in. It feels like "Into The Wild" as
directed by Clint Eastwood. I have been going around telling random
people about how great this movie is and how it will clean up at the
Oscars.

I don't see it appealing to everyone however. That is what makes it
such a great film because no one left the screening ambivalent. The
open-minded Austin, Texas audience was vastly in the Fantastic camp,
but I can see this film is not going to go down well everywhere with
everyone. If it did, it would be some fluff piece and not the classic
it is destined to be.
<|_=00=_|>
"Captain Fantastic" (2016 release; 119 min.) brings the story of Ben
and his 6 kids. As the movie opens, we are looking onto the
breath-taking landscapes of western Washington. The camera then zooms
in on a deer, and before we know it, the deer is killed by a brutal
knifing (with audible gasps in the theater audience). It turns out to
be Ben's oldest son. Ben exclaims proudly "today a boy is dead, in his
place is a man!". We get to know Ben and the 6 kids, ranging from 17 to
about 7 or 8 in age, as they live completely off the grid. As we wonder
"where is Ben's wife/the mom?", we learn that Leslie is in the hospital
due to bipolar disorder. One day Ben drives into town to call the
hospital to see how Leslie is doing... At this point we're not event 15
min. into the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your
viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all
plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the second feature length from
actor/writer/director Matt Ross, who previously directed the under the
radar "28 Hotel Rooms". Here he brings something completely different,
and a social experiment at that: what if you raise a family completely
off the grid, in a utopian but clear anti-capitalistic setting, without
any interaction with the "real" world, and what would happen if at one
point those children are forced to confront the "real" world.
Fascinating idea, and one that Ross examines quite nicely. The movie
excels even more due to the performance of Viggo Mortensen, which is
out of this world, but truth be told: the six kids are quite
outstanding as well. The movie is pretty much perfect for the first 90
min., but then struggles to come to a reasonable conclusion,
regretfully. There is also an outstanding score for this movie,
courtesy of Alex Somers and performed by Somers and Jonsi (of Sigur
Ros). Apart from the score, there are a number of other good song
placements throughout the movie (but not Elton John's "Captain
Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy", if you were wondering). Can't
wait to check out the soundtrack.

"Captain Fantastic" won Matt Ross the best director award in the "Un
Certain Regard" showing at the Cannes Film Festival in May. The movie
finally opened at my local art-house theater here in Cincinnati and I
couldn't wait to see it. The Saturday early evening screening where I
saw this at was attended very nicely, I am happy to say. It seems that,
other than the gasps in the opening scene of the movie, the audience
really enjoyed the movie. I know I did. If you are interested in a very
solid family drama with a unique social experiment, you cannot go wrong
with this, be it in the theater, on VOD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
"Captain Fantastic" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front
only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it
had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not
lived." Henry David Thoreau

I just happen to be reading Henry David Thoreau's book Walden for a
philosophy club. When I saw this trailer I told myself I had to see
this before it left my city. The similarity between the book Walden and
this film are pretty high. With similar topics of arguments against
commercialism and full industrialism. Then throw on top a yearning for
spiritual truth and self-reliance. Still, this isn't just a stick your
middle finger at the system film. It's way more than that.

Matt Ross has an interesting meditation on what it means to live
outside society in America. He shows a couple reasons why someone would
do this and show the pros and cons in a very interesting way. The views
evolve as the story moves on. Such is life eh?

Viggo Mortensen acting is amazing in this role. With that said, don't
overlook Jack (Frank Langella) acting in the film. For a good portion
of the film, we only see the point of view from the family and mostly
Ben (Viggo Mortensen) at that. But later in the film, you see Jack's
motives too. I can see why he acted the way he did and I may have done
this same if I was in his spot too.

Bo (George MacKay) gets a couple good scenes too. It's great to see him
fumble through interactions throughout the film and to discover what he
wants out of adult life. This may or may not conflict with what his dad
wants.

I highly recommend this film and can't wait to see what Matt Ross does
in the future. If this film comes to your town do yourself a favour and
see it. Clever films are rare and need to be supported.
<|_=00=_|>
Mortensen plays Ben, A father of six children, whose wife suffers from 
mental illness and Ben thought it would be good for her and the kids to 
live out in the wild, living off the land and tossing the rules of our 
society out the window. However, Ben's wife did not get better.

Captain Fantastic mostly focuses on the children. On a road trip 
towards their mother's funeral, they get a culture clash with the rest 
of the world. It lays out all the info for the question of weather 
these kids were raised right or raise wrong.

Captain Fantastic starts off showing you the children's lifestyle, were 
organic met growing and hunting your own food and made their own 
clothes and were home schooled.

Then they come into society where everyone looks at them as if they are 
freaks, but why is it weird that these kids don't know the name brand 
of sneakers? The look on their faces when they experienced Street 
Fighter for the first time makes sense when your not use to such 
things. Besides, it's a shame on our Society that an 8 year old can 
comprehend the Bill of Rights better than those older than her.

Watching these kids tackle the woods than watching them adapt to 
society was a bit of an eye opener. Some times the movie punches you in 
the gut, like when the talk about religious "organizations" and how Fat 
everyone in the city seems to be, but the blow is softer cause it's 
coming from children.

But Captain Fantastic is not all one sided, detailing some down 
qualities of living in the wild , like the eldest son's overzealous 
first encounter with the opposite sex or the fact that It was the 
parents choice to live out in the woods, not the child's.

Mortensen played the part well of a man who sometimes got too clouded 
by his beliefs of doing the right thing by his family and who sometimes 
went to far to prove a point.

Also like Frank Langella's character, the father who just lost his 
daughter and blames his son-in-law. It's was good cause you really know 
people like the character he plays.

Steve Zahn and Kathryn Hahn were also terrific in the movie playing yin 
to Ben's yang, as parents who don't fully see eye to eye with what he's 
doing.

Overall, everyone has a upbringing different from everyone else and 
Captain Fantastic takes that statement to a different level, but at 
it's core, he's just a parent who loves his children and is trying to 
do the best he can in a difficult time. This theme radiates from 
Mortensen and the rest of the cast, which is what makes it so 
Fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had wonderful child actors and a great family story. Yes it
is a unusual family but that is why I liked it. The story is
believable. You will laugh and cry. A great story of a family that you
will grow to love. You will like the scenery. It is thought provoking
and shows all different aspects of family life. There is a small short
scene of male frontal nudity but other then that it is fine. You will
enjoy the full two hours of the movie. I think the child actors should
be nominated for Oscars. They were very believable. It makes you think
about the different ways we raise our kids. The dad may seem strange in
his beliefs but that is why I liked the movie We are all different.
