
Seth Rogen is a rather intelligent producer. He and his pals (including
Evan Goldberg, James Franco, Mindy Kaling, Lizzy Caplan, Randall Park
etc.) have created an unusual semi-surreal kind of weird comedies, like
"The interview" and "This is the end".

In The Night Before (2015/II) (because there is another (2015/I) movie
with the same name in 2015 starring David Faustino!)...3 friends spend
every Xmas together in search for a great party and having a good time.
The dramatic element here is that one of them lost his parents in a car
accident and the other 2 are trying to be supportive.

The problem is that this movie seems like it is designed to provoke,
even shock. Trying to extrude laughter through harsh and dramatic
situations without actually entering the limits of a black comedy.

Drugs and "tripping" play a major part in the movie. A tone of
supernatural. And of course sex and relationships and friendships, the
"bro" kind. Yet there are a lot to be desired and a major part of the
film, although uneven, takes the lead and makes lifelong friendship to
seem like it is just an excuse for some crude jokes like blood from a
dripping nose into someone's drink or vomiting into a church during
Xmas mass.

Overall: You wont be missing much if you avoid to see this. In the end,
the basic idea of bro-friendship seems like an excuse from some surreal
gags.
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason I got to the end of this stinker of a movie is that I
paid money for it. 

I thought the premise for it was alright - 3 longtime friends go out on
the town for their last Christmas together. As it turns out, each of
them is dealing with a personal issue. One is going to be a father and
is afraid he's not prepared. One is a professional athlete who is using
steroids to stay in the game. The third is making excuses for why his
life is going nowhere. 

Then, it gets really, really stupid. Isaac's wife gives him a box of
street drugs for Christmas and he takes all of them. Instead of dying
of an overdose, he throws up, bleeds into a woman's drink, and
generally goes around being gross. This is, believe it or not, one of
the main punch lines of the movie.

Drugs are so prevalent in this movie, they are practically a character
of their own. There is a superficial attempt to draw on Dickens'
"Christmas Carol" by calling their dope dealer the Spirit of Christmas
Present, and drug-taking in general is made out to be synonymous with
partying and friendship. Even the fabulous party they finally get to
after years of trying literally has a bowl of drugs on the table. And
yet, for some reason, their athlete buddy is called out and shamed for
taking steroids. I don't get that steroid use is so horrible when
everyone else is taking cocaine, dope, mushrooms, and every other drug
they can find.

I also disliked the fact that nobody in this movie could actually
explain anything or say anything adult. Isaac's wife says to him that
she is a "f*cking piece of sh*t". As it turns out, she means that she
fears she might not be a good mother. What happened to "I'm worried" or
"I feel unprepared"? Why can't anyone actually articulate anything
beyond the most basic grunting sounds? These are meant to be educated
people (Isaac is a lawyer) and yet they all speak like 14-year-olds who
think it's cool to swear when their parents aren't around. 

At the end of this movie, I just felt depressed. I feel sorry for
anyone whose life is anything like these pointless characters, and
anyone who thinks that the "partying" portrayed in this movie is even
remotely fun.

There was no real plot to this movie. The characters are flat and
uninteresting, and don't actually learn anything or develop, despite
the premise of the movie. The humour is beyond juvenile. Conclusion: a
complete waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was reluctant to see the film. I heard it was vulgar and tasteless. I
saw bad santa in the day, and although it was filthy and offensive, I
laughed a lot. the night before is neither vulgar or tasteless. it's
just nothing. no one in the theater laughed, no one walked out. I
actually couldn't give it a number. seth rogen is, well, seth rogan. no
acting stretch of any kind. Joseph gorden levitt, who reminds me a
great deal of a young johnny depp (pre-stardom), is totally wasted, no
pun, here. I was hoping for laughs and instead was wondering what the
film maker had in mind. I couldn't tell. I know movies are subjective
and we all don't see the same movie. reviews are mixed. I wanted to
laugh. no luck there.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a teen I warned everyone I knew to look after their
relationships: parents, siblings, children, lovers, and especially
friends. Nothing in this life lasts forever. The only constant - is
CHANGE. Blah blah blah.

People move on with their own agendas and perceived roles in their
lives and this puts a great strain on previous interactions that we
often take for granted after our formative educational years.
Friendships are usually the most likely things to suffer, fade, and
disappear once people grow up. This movie is a fun , veiled tale of
what we ALL must go through with regards to those changes ,and I
sympathize with it, fore tis a central part of the human condition.

There's laughs, spills, not too many thrills, or chills, though for a
xmas movie, thats just mein penchant for terrible har har making. But
some people do these types of things, no gender analysis needed to ruin
a good time. HOWEVER...

The film will of course appeal a tad more to the male perspective, but
honestly when you look beyond Seth Rogan's ever intentionally placed
molotov of druggery and mazel tovly awesome beard, and the strangely
balding J G Levitt and their mysterious drug dealer associate, we
remember that we all go through the same things, regardless of our
individual attitudes, perspectives and the colors they take on. A good
"holy" season watch when your bored and want some entertainment.
Seasons Greetings and keep your heat beating. 

Pe@ce ^~^
<|_=00=_|>
This is one the worst pieces of so-called "movie" I have ever seen. I
put is in the same category as "Flesh Gordon",' only with panties still
on. This is the kind of film that ends, or should end, careers. The
beginning narrative and first scene, the funeral scene, are
promising...that's it. No redeeming qualities after that. Although,
growing up Jewish in Los Angeles, I did understand the Chinese
restaurant humor (bunch or Orthodox Jewish guys eating Chinese on
Christmas Eve). We had a couple of those types of places we used to go
when I was a kid...one was called Wan Q...they asked if you were Joosh
when you walked in the door. Anyone saying yes got a menu with no pork
dishes, but I digress. Next, the drug thing was idiotic. Having lived
through the 70's, I understand what effect all those things have on a
person...the movie's depiction was terrible: Unrealistic, bordering on
asinine. I can't say anything after the "let's have sex with our
panties on in the bathroom" scene, which followed, because I left. It
was that bad...I walked out. Don't go see this crap. It isn't funny.
The acting is terrible. The writing and plot line are worse. One of the
worst movies I have seen in my life.
<|_=00=_|>
Fourteen years prior, Ethan Miller's (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) parents
passed away on Christmas Eve. His two best friends, Isaac (Seth Rogen)
and Chris (Anthony Mackie), have been with him in support on this night
by having an annual tradition of going out on Christmas Eve. However,
because Isaac is going to be a father and Chris has become famous, all
three decide to have one last Christmas Eve out in New York City.

I loved this movie and my little son Muhammad did,but was embarrassed
by the strong sexual content since he is a child. I told him to close
his eyes if he sees nudity.

This movie is great for teens and adults,but has unsuitable adult
material in it which offend kids.

I am a Muslim woman and I celebrate Christmas too with my only one
beloved son Muhammad.

Honestly the Jewish men were so cute and funny they really made me
laugh from start to finish.

Most Muslim Community Around The World Buy Kosher Jewish Food. Me As A
Secular Belly Dancer,I respect every religion and wish you all a Very
Merry Christmas & Happy New Year and I Wish The Evil Of ISIS Terrorists
Muslims Will End Soon & Peace Agreement With Israel & Arab Muslim
Countries Will Happen In The Year 2016.
<|_=00=_|>
not gonna give anything away but i had to pause the film sometimes
because i was laughing too hard... yeah, there's a lot of drugs in the
movie but i kinda fell high while watching so that's a thing. different
movie in the Christmas "genre" and it's funny - definitely will re-
watch while stoned, should be fun. peace, y'all
<|_=00=_|>
The real-life link: the obvious-even the best friends can not take care
of you forever because they too have their own lives. It makes you
think how unless you have a partner that cares for you, no one else
that is not family will never become family. People get shown this
often that sparkly why people rush into relationships as long as it is
a relationship. But is that true? Is it true that when your family is
gone, unless you have a girlfriend/boyfriends wife/husband no one will
ever become your family? 

Plausibility: poor. When you loose your family, two friends showing by
your door will not make you totally forget what happened. This movies
seems to believe that they do. 

Character development: we do see growth. We see Ethan realising that he
needs to accept change and its fears in order to be able to grow. We
see him and the others realising that things will inevitably change and
that change needs to be accepted. Diana is a character I liked. She
knew that Ethan proposing to her was on pure intentions, he just wanted
to escape the fear of abandonment, she knew that he still had not
reflected on what was the actual reason why she did not want to be with
him. She knew she wanted commitment and hope for a future, family. She
realised that she won't get that from Ethan until he accepted that
change was necessary and that he wanted that change. She did not get
back with him until he understood that. That is a strong character. 

Storytelling: poor. The story moves slow and as much as the nutcracker
party tries to steer the movie in one direction, the story lie falls
apart and in some instances even becomes boring. Not to mention some
Christmas clichés that the movie has.
<|_=00=_|>
And other rude stuff of course. But you can guess that by seeing not
only the rating this has on its sleeve but also by the cast list.
Having said that, this is an adventure 3 friends go on every year on
Christmas. And as everything that has been done too many times, it
wears out (for them that is, maybe for the viewer too?).

You have to like the three main actors or at least not hate them, to
kind of enjoy the movie. There is of course at least one love interest
and a lot of side characters (family), not to mention the clear
connection to the Christmas Carol. But this Carol takes you on a
different kind of a trip .. well you get the pun. If you think this is
funny, then you passed the first test of "Should I watch this?". The
rest is up to you and your mood/feelings towards this type of comedy
...
<|_=00=_|>
Review: This is a mediocre comedy, which does have a couple of funny
moments but it did seem more silly than funny. The movie is based
around 3 best friends, Ethan (Joseph Gordon- Levitt), Issac (Seth
Rogen) and Chris (Anthony Mackie), who are spending there last
Christmas night together, before Issac's wife, Betsy (Jillian Bell) has
a baby. Ever since Ethan lost his parents at Christmas, due to a car
crash, the 3 friends have made it a ritual to be together on Christmas
night, and they have tried to get an invitation to the exclusive
undercover club, the Nurcracka Ball but they have never succeeded.
While Ethan is working in the cloak room of a club, he sees 3 tickets
to the ball in someone's pocket, so he steals them so he and his
friends can finally get to go to the ball. Meanwhile, Ethan has broken
up with his girlfriend, Diana (Lizzy Caplan), because of commitment
issues and Chris has become an sports star and Ethan is determined to
win back Diana's heart. Before they set out on there magnificent last
adventure, Betsy gives Issac a box of drugs so he can have the perfect
night out but he goes completely overboard and he doesn't know if he is
coming or going. Once they set out on the last voyage, it just goes
from bad to worse but they remain close friends, even though they end
up on separate missions at one point of the night. The acting was what
was expected from Mackie, Rogen and Joseph and the director does push
the barriers with religion and sexual innuendos. Michael Shannon (Mr.
Green) was brilliant as the drug dealing elf and I enjoyed the Run DMC
tribute but it's not in the same league as movies like the Hangover.
Watchable!

Round-Up: This movie was written and directed by Jonathan Levin, who
brought you 50/50, which also starred Seth Rogen and Gordon-Levitt,
Warm Bodies and the Wackness, so he hasn't got loads of experience
behind the camera. The scale of this movie is pretty big and you can
definitely see were the budget went but it still lacked originality and
Seth Rogen seemed to be the only one, out of the three, that was
bringing the comedic aspect to the film. I enjoyed the old school Hip
Hop throughout the movie and those traditional jumpers did make me
laugh, and the girl who played the grinch type character, Rebecca
(Ilana Glazer), was completely nuts but there wasn't any moments that
will stick in my mind. Its still a watchable movie which will make you
laugh in parts but I have seen better.

Budget: $25million Worldwide Gross: $52.3million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies starring
Seth Rogen, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Anthony Mackie, Jillian Bell, Michael
Shannon, Tracy Morgan, James Franco and Miley Cyrus. 4/10
