
I watched this one tonight and was pleasantly surprised. As I had never
heard of this movie, I didn't expect much . . . but I ended up being
moved enough by the film to write a review on this Saturday night.

The movie is about a boy whose mother has just died. He is going to
live with his grandparents in New Mexico and a mysterious stranger
offers to give him a ride. Of course, he has no idea what he is in for
by accepting the offer and a fascinating "road trip/coming of age"
story ensues (with a few surprises toward the end).

I hate long reviews, so let's get to it: I grew up in Texas and the
locations used by the director are lonesome and add great authenticity
to the movie. The directing was above average by Trey Nelson (who
appears to be primarily a TV guy until this film) and I thought the
acting was excellent by Josh and especially Josh Wiggins as Louis.

This is a pretty good film if you are in the mood for a lonesome road
movie. 7/10 cheers
<|_=00=_|>
I sort of stumbled across this film, and thought yeah it has got an OK
cast, the ratings on IMDb (specially the amount of 1 votes) were sort
of on the low side, but glad I gave it a go.

It has a very simple story line that guides you along from the minute
it starts, and I really got caught up in it, the music was partly to
blame, but it was filmed with a feeling most high end Hollywood
products would kill for.

Great performance by the whole cast, especially the kid, and seeing it
has a low score of 6 on IMDb, I gave it a 10 as it deserves a way
better rating than it has. If you like a film that gives you that chill
kind of feeling, with out blood and guts purely because of the great
acting and simple but very effective story, than you will love this
film!

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Stumbled across this gem. Superbly crafted, fabulous cinematography,
brilliant casting and great performances from everyone. Outstanding
locations. The expansive angles capture the southern mid-west
perfectly. 

Characters are rich and absorbing, even those who only feature for a
few moments. 

The only thing that lets it down is the script, which is a little
predictable, but does have the occasional surprise. But the excellent
acting carries it off, and for me it's still 8 out of 10. 

If you enjoy watching a truly well made film, you'll love this one.
<|_=00=_|>
A road adventure that brings together two completely different
characters. A man that is constantly haunted by his past and has many
flaws in his personality and a boy whose innocence collides with real
life. Opposites at first glance they create a powerful bond.

The story is simple and that's where its charm is. It doesn't pretend
to be more than it actually is. It doesn't try to distinguish right
from wrong, nor it tries to judge any of the characters. It presents a
short moment in time and leaves all the conclusions to the viewer. It
has a bit of European feel to itself, especially in the way the scenes
don't rush one after the other but rather flow into one another. The
dialogues are good and they reveal not only the plot but the characters
as well.

The performances are very good, most notable the one from Josh Wiggins.
He looks very natural in his role and shows a lot of potential for
future success in the field of acting.

Lastly, but not least, the photography and the scenic sets, combined
with the beautiful music, give a sense of tranquility and peace.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a well-acted film for sure. It's nice to see Josh Duhamel in a
gritty, dramatic role (brown teeth for the part even). The actor who
portrays the kid was excellent as well.

This is a road movie drama with suspense and intrigue. Slow-moving at
at times, it's got a moody, eerie feel that just pulls you right in.
Should you like Josh's character, should you not? Those answers are not
all forthcoming immediately. It's interesting to watch the bond develop
between his character and the boy, and at times, your perspective on
that may change (true bond? Stockholm Syndrome?). In the extra
features, Josh says this was a movie he was trying to make for a long
time. It's a independent film definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lost in the Sun" (2015) is a good neo-noir, set in the southwest of a
sparsely populated rural America. It's a road and crime movie in which
Josh Duhamel is driving 14-year old Josh Wiggins to his new home with
grandparents after his mother has died. Along the way, Duhamel involves
the boy in several robberies. This is a story of a man seeking to do
one thing right in a life he characterizes as full of his own mistakes
and no one else's. Noir has a way of depicting characters way off the
beaten trap, often criminals, whose personal dramas nonetheless shed
light on the realities of the society's myths and the many
non-criminals. Everyone makes mistakes and has regrets, after all, in
common with Duhamel. He'd be classified as a loser with bad habits he
cannot shake, and he knows it. Wiggins is actually more mature and
stable. This role reversal works well in the story. The photography
nicely captures a southwest that would be hard to find in a major city.
Writer-director Trey Nelson does fine work in this, his first feature
film after over a decade of TV work.
<|_=00=_|>
I, like most reviewers here, stumbled across this movie and didn't
expect to get pulled in like I did. I've watched it 4 times now, and
I've noticed some new detail that makes me like it even better each
time through. The acting was so good that I forgot it was a movie, and
as other reviewers have said here, both male leads show lots of
potential for future success. Everyone else seems to have predicted the
ending; guess I'm naive or slow, as the final scene when the boy is
looking at the photos on the wall in his mother's childhood bedroom is
when it all fell into place for me. No one else has mentioned the
excellent acting by the grandmother, maybe because she has such a small
role, but she was really perfect. Just the kind of grandma this kid
needed at the end of a hard and dusty road. I hope to see more from
these two "Joshes", as both were so well-cast in their roles that one
must attribute such a good fit in part to talented acting. Even though
we never really see the boy's deceased mother alive in the film, she
plays a strong role, too, and her presence in photos, lying in her
little casket in the church, and in the newspaper obituary "John" is
holding near the film's beginning, add the right amount of
believability, and made me care even more about her boy and his
eventual safe passage to his grandparents' home.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so here goes,

I'm normally not a big fan of these kind of movies but there was
something about this film that made me keep on watching.

The start is a bit slow but keep on watching it to get sucked in to
this great little film. Yes I agree it is a bit predictable with the
story line but if you can see past that you are onto a winner.

Both Josh Duhamel and Josh Wiggins had a strong character play in this
film and I'm looking forward of seeing more of these actors.

so as a summary: slow to start and slightly predictable but once you
get sucked in its a great film to watch on a quiet evening. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Lost in the Sun" is a small independent film that itself gets a little
lost on the way, but you can enjoy the ride because of the terrific
acting from Josh Duhamel (Leo from "All My Children", Major Lennox from
"Transformers"), Josh Wiggins ("Max"), Lynn Collins ("Wolverine"), and
Emma Fuhrmann ("Blended"). It's a non-traditional road show and it
delivers a fascinating look at the back roads of Texas and the meager
life of a small time crook with a good heart but little else.

We are all looking for a place that feels like home and people to share
it with. For most it isn't a cottage with a white fence and two dogs,
and we make the best along the way. Sometimes the search is in vain and
sometimes we can get back home, but we can get lost in the sun along
the way.
<|_=00=_|>
Lost in the Sun is about family, and the discovery that families differ
from person to person. Not every family turns out to have strong bonds,
and from time to time, we can downright despise them at times. Lost in
the sun centers on a young boy who has lost those bonds and a trip that
brings his life into focus.

It's a fairly dramatic story. A young boy loses his mother, and has to
travel across the country to live with his grandparents, whom he's
never met before. Along comes drifter and lowlife John (Josh Duhmal),
who offers to take this young man to his destination. Against his
better judgment he hops into the car with this stranger, and begins a
journey of self-discovery.

I didn't think it was a copied story. There was a lot of interesting
and heartfelt moments. The plot line delivers a lot of teary moments,
and as you travel through the country with them, their bond becomes
stronger, as does yours with the characters. It was an interesting
story too, as each reveal brings you closer and closer to their
destination, and it's inevitable end. The thing I did notice is how
similar the story was to the movie "Road to Perdition." If you've seen
that film, you'll know it's not EXACTLY the same story, but remarkably
close in many points. The lost boy, the father figure, the journey they
take together across the country. Many of the same elements and
emotional moments were in both films.

Overall, it's a decent movie. Better than I thought it would be and I
found myself pretty drawn in to the story. It's sad, but in a good way.

5/10
