
Firstly this is not your average Spielberg movie, it's more of a feel
good family movie. The reason people hate this movie is because they
are comparing it to a proper Spielberg movie. I think Spielberg was
trying to do something different this time for kid viewers. My family
loved this movie and if you hated this movie while you're reading this,
just give it another try. Lot's of people think this is very immature
because of it's fart jokes, I was counting how many fart jokes there
were surprisingly there were only four in the entire movie. The
director has had a few bad movies recently (Indiana Jones and the
kingdom of the Krystal Skull etc.) Basically what I'm trying to say is
that this is a good movie and it is too much hate.
<|_=00=_|>
I do understand that people are disappointed when watching a Kids movie
and expecting an exciting and challenging plot. What is wrong with you
guys? Just because it says Steven Spielberg doesn't mean this is a
movie that is specifically designed for your needs. I am 30+ and I like
this movie a lot, watching it from a kids perspective you even
understand the breakfast scene and I bet all kids would laugh at it. It
is kinda sad, seeing how incapable some people are recognizing a movie
for kids as such. This is a proper 8! I like the accent, the CGI is
fitting, the story is for kids, so if you are not a kid, stfu. I can
fully recommend it to anybody with an open mind, who is not looking for
the kids version of an Captain America Civil War CGI fest.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't get the bad reviews here, were they watching the same film? or
maybe they have lost touch with their inner child. I loved this film
and I'm not a kid I'm a 55 year old bloke. The film follows the book
faithfully and keeps hold of Roald Dahl's odd humour well. The girl
playing Sophie is an excellent Northern British actress who plays the
part very well and is well cast, the giant character is funny, magical
and full of warmth and charm with the CG very well done. Sure its a
kids film but as such it is a very good one, if you want more adult
material then don't watch kids films but if you like magical fantasy
with humour and great visuals I recommend the BFG wholeheartedly.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this adaptation, it is charming, funny and engaging. I've read
some pretty scathing reviews, saying it's Spielberg's worst film - or
one of, and I couldn't disagree more. It's really a kid's story,
dressed up as a family movie. It's also a simple tale, requiring a
simple plot and that is what you get, along with some Spielberg magic.
The (gas) scene in Buckingham Palace is one of the funniest I've ever
seen - it was hysterical! If you want to get all serious and pick fault
with the plot line, you shouldn't be watching this kind of movie. It's
a fantasy movie, involving some.... well... fantasy! There were some
stereotypical British elements, which to us might be a bit overdone,
but Spielberg isn't British. Whoever is slating this movie's plot and
the movie in general obviously doesn't remember: E.T, Back to the
Future; Poltergeist etc, who's plot lines were crackpot in the extreme.
BFG is what it is... a lighthearted and delightful fantasy, which kids
and adults will adore together.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'm not a huge children's movie fan, but this one was just
so charming and cute I couldn't help but like it. The real star is the
BFG. The funny way he talks and the emotions on his face really made
the movie for me. The little girl does a pretty good job as well. 

This isn't the kind of movie you watch for the story. It's simple
enough, but does the job. It's more for the interaction between the
girl and the giant, and in that department the movie delivers. Sure
there were some childish jokes, but there were plenty of other moments
that made me laugh out loud without involving body functions.

I don't get why so many people hated on this movie. Where they
expecting Schindler's List? This wasn't that kind of Spielberg Movie.
It was more about the interaction of a child and magical friend, akin
to ET - and while it may not be quite as good, I still got a lot of
enjoyment out of it. If you don't think you're going to be a stick in
the mud about it, go ahead and give it a watch. You might end up being
surprised at how much you like it, just like I was.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie with my 7 year old daughter yesterday, literally
10 times back to back. Not only are the graphics in this movie
beautiful but the message is as well. My daughter has been experiencing
bullying lately and this movie couldn't have come at a better time. It
taught my daughter how to stand up to bully's and not to let them
affect or change her. The movie teaches you that it is OK to ask for
help. It is OK to be different. It is OK to dream and believe in magic.
I cannot understand why someone would give this movie under 10 stars.
One of the best Disney movies I have seen in a long time. "Those who
don't believe in magic will never find it."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm also quite surprised by all the negativity thrown at this film.
Yes, it does have its slow spots and could certainly use better
editing, but it can be quite wondrous, humorous, and has some important
messages to relay as well. 

I thought the scenes with the Queen (Penelope Wilton) were highly
imaginative, funny, and warm-hearted. Both Mark Rylance and young Ruby
Barnhill were excellent in their lead roles.

As others have noted, this is not the best Spielberg film ever, but
perhaps over time it will gain more favor. The late Melissa Mathis
wrote the screenplay, as she did for Spielberg's classic "E.T.". It's
based, of course, on the great Roald Dahl book.

All in all, I agree with those that don't think this movie deserves the
pummeling it's getting, and I feel there's lots to like here, for those
that want to give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember reading this book as a kid and I was glad that it go the
proper film adaptation that it deserved. While the film version forgoes
many of the darker elements from the novel but it does stay faithful to
the story, the premise deals with ten year old orphan Sophie who is
living in an orphanage in London who dreads staying there, one night
while having difficulty falling asleep, she encounters the bfg aka big
friendly giant who takes her to giant country. She also discovers that
the bfg is a kind and friendly giant. However Sophie also discovers
that other giants in giant country aren't as friendly and eat human
beings.
<|_=00=_|>
i liked it so much and I had mixed feelings before I saw it.Graphic
it's so good and i liked it.the story take you to a dream world which
we escape to it from our world to be happy and make our needs without
any thing i think it's so good to children to know a good and bad
moment.It may not awesome to all adults and teens but it is a great
choice for kids and family's to watch .It's really a true new concept
for giant peoples. living in truly new world. and the main thing is
animation, its beautiful. and all the giant people acting are
awesome.Recommend this movie for everyone who has a child's heart, a
youthful dream. And thanks for the movie makers, thank you very much to
being us this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a whopping 25 years since Steve Spielberg's last real
children's film, when he disappointed children and adults alike with
his Peter Pan re-imagining Hook. After a long period of going back and
forth between monochromatic, Oscar-wary history lessons and
crowd-pleasing blockbuster fare, Hollywood's most famous director is
back trying to win the hearts of both children and parents as he did
with one of his most celebrated movies, E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial
(1982), with a passion project he's been considering for some time. He
also reunites with E.T. screenwriter Melissa Mathison (who sadly died
last year) to bring the notoriously tricky world of Roald Dahl to the
big screen.

Insomniac orphan Sophie (Ruby Barnhill) spends her nights either
beneath her blanket pouring over books or roaming the halls of the
orphanage looking for anything that may spark her interest. While up
late one night, she shushes some drunks staggering home from the pub,
only to glimpse the shadow of what looks like a giant hooded man. The
figure gets closer and closer, until a giant hand reaches in through
her window and whisks her and blanket both across the country. The
mysterious monstrosity turns out to be a giant indeed, but a big,
friendly one, played in motion capture by a wonderful Mark Rylance. The
BFG is the runt of his litter in Giant Country, and is routinely
bullied by the much bigger fellow giants that lurk on the land outside
of his cave. The two outcasts will form a bond that will see their two
worlds unite.

Brian Cosgrove's beloved animated film from 1989 was incredibly close
to the book, and was said to be a personal favourite of Dahl's. Yet a
faithful page-to-screen adaptation of a terrific piece of literature
doesn't necessarily result in a good movie, and having watched the
cartoon relatively recently, I didn't find it very entertaining.
Spielberg's update also stays quite close to Dahl's text, and it
suffers from the same saggy narrative as the much shorter movie that
came before did. Anyone hoping to keep their children entertained for a
couple of hours may find them getting restless, as Spielberg is happy
to take his time exploring this strange land. It's a decision I
applaud, but it doesn't excuse an incredibly slow middle-section, as
the BFG introduces the world of dream-catching, snozzcumbers and the
joys of farting to the precocious Sophie, complete with rambling
monologues and existential pondering.

There's also a noticeable reluctance to explore the darker areas of the
book, with the giants (played like Cockney bouncers by the likes of
Jemaine Clement and Bill Hader) failing to live up their names
(Fleslumpeater, Bloodbottler, Bonecruncher). They instead come across
as bullying buffoons and not the child-munching monsters they are meant
to be. If there is one thing the film gets totally right, it is with
the casting of Rylance, fresh off his Oscar win for Bridge of Spies
(2015). The wonderful effects by Weta perfectly capture the warmth and
innocence of his performance, and his line delivery is pitch- perfect.
Spielberg also goes all-out with Dahl's bizarre finale, which sees
Sophie recruit the Queen herself (Penelope Wilton) and her trusted
butler Mr. Tibbs (Rafe Spall) in her fight against the evil giants of
Giant Country. It's a truly weird climax, but it's the only
consistently funny part of the movie. Not a total failure by any
stretch of the imagination, but a somewhat rambling, timid effort to
bring a difficult book to the screen.
