
We've all experienced the same monotonous train commute to work in our
lives at some point. You go by the same places and see the same faces
each and every day. None of us have quite had a commute that changes
our lives quite like Rachel Watson in The Girl on the Train though.

Emily Blunt stars as Rachel Watson, an alcoholic divorcée who takes the
same train to work each day. On her journey, Rachel fantasises about
the relationship of Scott (Luke Evans) and Megan Hipwell (Haley
Bennett), who live a few doors down from her ex-husband, Tom (Justin
Theroux), and his new wife, Anna (Rebecca Ferguson).

Rachel's unstable state leads her on a downward spiral that sees her
embroiled in a missing persons investigation that will change her life
forever.

Based on the best-selling novel by Paula Hawkins, The Girl on the Train
is a mystery thriller that reminded me of David Fincher's Gone Girl,
which is not a bad thing at all. Now, while I don't think this is a
better film than Gone Girl, I do think it serves up a worthy mystery
that kept me guessing right up until the twist/reveal later on in the
story.

The narrative is told from the point of view of the three main female
characters; Rachel, Anna and Megan. It could have easily become quite
convoluted and messy yet Erin Cressida Wilson's screenplay allows
things to move along smoothly and without any confusion.

A lot of my hopes for this film were depending on the twist/reveal that
would undoubtedly arrive in a mystery like this. Thankfully I can say
that it was very well done and actually offered something totally
different to what I was expecting. Yes, it gets a little far-fetched in
the final act but if you go with it, The Girl on the Train really is a
suspenseful watch.

Coming to the performances, The Girl on the Train features a great lead
performance from Emily Blunt and a solid supporting cast, Haley Bennett
and Rebecca Ferguson jumping on the paranoia train with Emily Blunt to
great effect. 

So, if you're a fan of either mysteries or thrillers, The Girl on the
Train will be a journey you want to go on. If not, best to wait at the
platform for the next train.
<|_=00=_|>
The Girl on the Train is a novel that kind of jumped up on the world,
especially with the unbelievable success of the book and movie versions
of Gone Girl. Since then, this sub-genre of Domestic Noir has exploded
and it seems that every novel that can be compared to Gone Girl has
been optioned for a film: this, and Renee Knight's Disclaimer had the
film rights purchased before the novels were even released to the
public! It's a bandwagon that needs to stop, because I cannot
understand how this movie could've been so disappointing and poor as it
is.

As an Englishman, the film's location shift did aggravate me a lot.
It's one of those things that changes nothing but everything at the
same time; the train system in London is a very different one to New
York, where it's more underground based. But that's a setting thing,
doesn't affect the movie as a whole. What does affect the movie is how
viciously, and how insufferably BORING IT IS! Seriously, this film
treats everything like its the most binal and uninteresting thing, in
which all the characters talk in flat and monotone voices, and the fact
that screenwriter Erin Cressida Wilson has removed so much of the kinks
and human error from it. Add to this is that most of the characters are
completely flat, with almost no backstory - the only real "backstories"
being had by Megan and Rachel, more of those in a second - and this
makes everything SO hard to sit through, or barely care when stuff
happens. Tate Taylor, who made the excellent The Help some years ago,
and directed his actors in that with such confidence and zest, makes me
wonder why this movie is so lifeless, and why he struggled to direct
his actors in this with any human qualities to them. It's like he is
trying to out-Gone Girl Gone Girl, but the problem with that is that
David Fincher is clearly more adept at darker material; the way Fincher
accentuates moments of extreme pivotal violence, like Amy's murder of
Desi, or gives a clear indication of where/when stuff is happening, or
made the only real monster of the movie Gone Girl Amy, and made the
others human but just flawed in some way. Everyone here is just nasty,
in some way, but in such unremarkable ways - or ways that are made to
feel unremarkable, such as Rachel inserting herself into Scott
Hipwell's life after his wife is murdered.

OK, Rachel's backstory is quickly glossed over; she was unable to
conceive, so she began her spiral into alcoholism. That's it for her,
and Emily Blunt, who is at her best when portraying characters being
slowly broken down by life, does her best, but as stated, there's
really no humanity to Rachel, so alas is all blowing into the wind.
Megan, played by Haley Bennett, is by far the most tragic character,
and that is because we can see how irreparably damaged she is from the
death of a baby she conceived at a young age, to the point where she
ends up in the situation that gets her killed. And Anna? Yeah, she's
just there, she does nothing short of providing a good ending for
Rachel, but all of her vindictive attitude is removed from the book,
and so Rebecca Ferguson looks completely lost and is easily the weakest
of the 3 main characters. Luke Evans tries, but is stumped by the
absurd amount of sex scenes him and Bennett are involved with and an
absence of character beyond that. And Justin Theroux as Tom is just a
nasty guy; now, in the novel he's a nasty guy, but he was a nasty guy
with a past, and in this he has no past.

Really, in the end, Blunt and Bennett tried. Thumbs up for that. This
movie however is just jumping on the Gone Girl bandwagon, but not
taking the effort or care that movie took with its material.
Just...just read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been on IMDb for a number of years and always rate the movies i
watch. I have not written many reviews,however i think i needed to
write this one. This film is brilliant. I haven't read the book but the
story was excellent and having read reviews i am disappointed with the
negative reviews of this masterclass in story and film making. Do not
be put off folks, this was a real thriller mystery and deserves a big
9.the acting was superb,and having been in a drunken state myself for a
time they couldn't have put it more realistic. Enjoy its really good,
please check my review scores before taking my opinion,i don't like
crap as you will see.
<|_=00=_|>
The divorcée Rachel Watson (Emily Blunt) commutes every day to New York
by train and watches the old house where she lived with her husband Tom
Watson (Justin Theroux) through the window. Rachel is an alcoholic and
sterile woman that frequently has blackouts and shares an apartment
with her friend Cathy (Lura Prepon). Tom is married with Anna Boyd
(Rebecca Ferguson) with the baby Evie. Their babysitter is Megan
Hipwell that lives with her husband Scott (Luke Evans) in the same
neighborhood in the suburb. Rachel admires Megan and Scott since she
believes they are the perfect couple. However Megan is a promiscuous
woman that has affairs with many men including her psychiatrist Dr.
Kamal Abdic (Édgar Ramírez). When Rachel sees Megan kissing another man
on the balcony of her house, she decides to have a conversation with
Megan after drinking in a bar. However she has a blackout and awakens
with bruises in her apartment. Soon she learns that Megan is missing
and Detective Riley (Allison Janney) that is in charge of the
investigation visits Rachel to interrogate her since the neighbors had
seen an alcoholic woman wandering in the area. However Rachel does not
recall what she did that night. Rachel decides to investigate the case
and has dreadful discoveries about her life and Tom. Who might be the
killer?

"The Girl on the Train" is a thriller with a good story but terrible
screenplay. The characters are not well-developed and despite the great
performance of the wonderful Emily Blunt, her character Rachel Watson
is a complete mess. Megan and Scott Hipwell, Anna and Tom Watson, and
Dr. Kamal Abdic are also one-dimensional characters. The non-linear
screenplay could be better and better, but instead of suspense and
tension, gives the sensation of a soap-opera. In the end, "The Girl on
the Train" is a film with great potential and cast but wasted by a poor
screenplay and inadequate direction. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "A Garota no Trem" ("The Girl on the Train")
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a best selling novel and with a huge marketing campaign to
back the film, The Girl On The Train oddly became one of the most
anticipated films of the Autumn to Christmas period... But instead of
being the Guardians of the Galaxy of this period the film fairs as well
as this years Suicide Squad. The Girl On The Train is absolutely
terrible and I feel rather sorry for Emily Blunt who I feel is left
alone trying to salvage this wreckage.

The film is so melodramatic that it is physically exhausting. The
script is I feel mainly to blame as many lines, especially Megan's,
feel extremely pretentious and I can't help but roll my eyes almost
every time someone speaks. Not only is the dialogue over the top but
the characters are written in such an unlikable way and the story's
progression is simply boring with one or two exceptions. I also took
issue with some of the plot points but I am unaware if this fault lies
with the book itself, or the film has adapted it and executed it in
such a poor way... I think I'll give the book the benefit of the doubt
and stick to the film as this must have been a Best Selling Book for a
reason.

The characters in this film are extremely unlikable to the point that
anything they say or do annoyed me. The frustrating thing about these
characters, and this is again Megan's character mainly, is that they
are often perfectly happy and fine but seem to go out their way to
screw their lives up (with the obvious exception of Rachel). Megan was
a huge issue for me as she had a seemingly happy life, she worked in
galleries and with children and had a husband who loved her... But she
just has to sleep around with the entire male cast to the point that
you feel exactly what Rachel felt when she saw her from the train.
Megan's character is rage inducing and for that I simply didn't care if
she was alive or dead but instead wanted to give the culprit a medal...
But even the culprit is a frustratingly irritating ass.

The best thing about this film by far is Emily Blunt's acting. I would
call it the films saving grace but this film is far from saving.
Blunt's performance of an alcoholic, voyeuristic, lonely woman who
takes the same train everyday to watch the "perfect couple" is great.
Of course the lines she is given aren't that great and her character is
again irritatingly stupid I'm surprised Alison Janney didn't wack
handcuffs on her, but as the plot thickens so does your understanding
of her character and so she is excused. As I said earlier I feel rather
sorry for Blunt who is tasked with holding the whole film together, but
it sadly isn't enough even though she tried so hard and got so far, in
the end it didn't even matter.

Overall, The Girl On The Train is one of the worst films of the year in
my opinion. The Suicide Squad of the Autumn - December movie season.
Emily Blunt tries her best but it isn't enough to save this
melodramatic mess. Fan's of the book I'm sorry if I offend and I'm sure
the book is good and worth the time to read... But the film is simply
not worth the 112 minutes and the anger it generates. Stand aside Amy
Schumer this film is the real Trainwreck.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I will admit that I've not read the bestselling book that
The Girl on the Train is based on so my thoughts are based purely on
the movie adaptation.

I usually love a fast paced thriller with twists and turns to keep me
metaphorically on the edge of cinema seat. The trailers had led me to
believe this might be the case for The Girl on the Train. How wrong I
was.

The screenplay and direction were often sloppy while the editing was so
messy it often felt like scenes were pieced together purely at random.
I really struggled to warm to or identify with any of the characters in
a film where all men are portrayed as controlling and deplorable and
any sense of female empowerment is lost amidst the absurdity of the
relentlessly twisting plot.

I have to call out Emily Blunt's stunning lead performance - she steals
every scene she's in with a nuanced, conflicted and honest portrayal of
a complex and intriguing character. Quality support performances from
Luke Evans and Haley Bennet help but don't save the movie and most
other characters are so slight and one-dimensional that they fade into
the background.

The Girl on the Train felt like Gone Girl without the tension, emotion
or drama.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Girl on a Train" is the film adaptation of the best-seller by
Paula Hawkins, transported from the London suburbs to New York's
Hastings-on- Hudson.

It's actually rather a sordid story encompassing as it does alcoholism,
murder, marital strife, deceit, sexual frustration, an historical
tragedy and lashings and lashings of violence. Emily Blunt ("Sicario",
"Edge of Tomorrow") plays Rachel, a divorcée with an alcohol problem
who escapes into an obsessive fantasy each day as she passes her former
neighbourhood on her commute into the city. Ex-husband Tom (Justin
Theroux, "Zoolander 2") lives in her old house with his second wife
Anna (Rebecca "MI:5" Ferguson) and new baby Evie. But her real fantasy
rests with cheerleader- style young neighbour Megan (Haley Bennett) who
is actually locked in a frustratingly child-free marriage (frustrating
for him at least) with the controlling and unpredictable Scott (Luke
Evans, "The Hobbit"). A sixth party in this complex network is Megan's
psychiatrist Dr Kamal Abdic (Édgar Ramírez, "Joy").

In pure Hitchcockian style Megan witnesses mere glimpses of events from
her twice-daily train and from these pieces together stories that
suitably feed her psychosis. When 'shit gets real' and a key character
goes missing, Megan surfaces her suspicions and obsessions to the
police investigation (led by Detective Riley, the ever-excellent
Allison Janney from "The West Wing") and promptly makes herself suspect
number one.

Readers of the book will already be aware of the twists and turns of
the story, so will watch the film from a different perspective than I
did. (Despite my best intentions I never managed to read the book
first).

First up, you would have to say that Emily Blunt's performance is
outstanding in an extremely challenging acting role. Every nuance of
shame, confusion, grief, fear, doubt and anger is beautifully enacted:
it would not be a surprise to see her gain her first Oscar nomination
for this. All the other lead roles are also delivered with great
professionalism, with Haley Bennett (a busy month for her, with "The
Magnificent Seven" also out) being impressive and Rebecca Ferguson, one
of my favourite current actresses, delivering another measured and
delicate performance.

The supporting roles are also effective, with Darren Goldstein as the
somewhat creepy "man in the suit" and "Friends" star Lisa Kudrow
popping up in an effective and pivotal role. The Screen Guild Awards
have an excellent category for an Ensemble Cast in a Motion Picture,
and it feels appropriate to nominate this cast for that award.

So it's a blockbuster book with a roller-coaster story and a stellar
cast, so what could go wrong? Well, something for sure. This is a case
in point where I suspect it is easier to slowly peel back Rachel's lost
memory with pages and imagination than it is with dodgy fuzzy images on
a big screen. Although the film comes in at only 112 minutes, the
pacing in places is too slow (the screenplay by Erin Cressida Wilson
takes its time) and director Tate Taylor ("The Help") is no Hitchcock,
or indeed a David Fincher (since the film has strong similarities to
last year's "Gone Girl": when the action does happen it lacks style,
with the violence being on the brutal side and leaving little to the
imagination.

It's by no means a bad film, and worth seeing for the acting
performances alone. But it's not a film I think that will trouble my
top 10 for the year.

(Agree? Disagree? For the graphical version of this review and to
comment please visit bob-the-movie-man.com. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the film two days ago. It started alright but just never really
went anywhere in terms of drama, intrigue, pace, suspense or any of the
key components of a murder mystery thriller. By the end of the film you
just don't feel anything for any of the film's main characters. Having
not read the book, I can't say whether the book is suspenseful but the
film has less drama than the current Southern rail conductors strikes.
When eventually the killer confronts Emily Blunt's character you really
don't give a flying fig. The film makes me relish even more, wonderful
murder thrillers like Jagged Edge, Seven, Fargo, The lives of others,
Silence of the Lambs, and Basic Instinct.
<|_=00=_|>
I read some of the reviews here, and came with very low expectations to
this movie, and WOW, what a pleasant surprise! Blunt gives here the
show of her life, way above the level of acting in "edge of tomorrow".
The story itself takes time to build but it all adds to the atmosphere,
and finally you get a fair amounts of twists and turns. Bennett and
Ferguson also acting very well, which all adds (to my opinion) to a
great film. And to all the men that say it's a "men hating" film, I say
that you really have a low self-confidence to come up with such a
statement... I would risk to say it's one of my 2016 best films, and I
will be surprised if Blunt will not be an Oscar nominee for this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually watch mystery thriller dramas - I generally only go to
big budget action movies. I knew next to nothing going in about what
this movie was about, which is probably the best way to go into this
movie (so in this review I'm not going to discuss the plot at all, just
how I felt about the movie - it's better this way). I knew Emily Blunt
was in the movie and that it was based on a novel and that's really
about this it. Despite all this, I actually liked this movie.

Who hasn't observed strangers from a distance and imagined our own life
stories for them? What if we got lost in our own imagined thoughts and
turned them into a dangerous obsession? It's an interesting premise on
which to base a story.

The movie kept me guessing; it wasn't predictable. It had me feeling
disturbed, engaged, sad, and cringing at the unfolding events. I guess
this is exactly what you'd want from a mystery thriller.
