
Barbershop: The Next Cut is a 2016 American comedy film directed by
Malcolm D. Lee. It is the fourth film in the Barbershop film series and
stars an ensemble cast, including Ice Cube, Cedric the Entertainer,
Regina Hall and Anthony Anderson. 

Calvin, Eddie and the rest of the gang must work together to save their
shop and their neighborhood from trigger-happy gang members that roam
the streets.

Critics wrote positive comments about this fantastic comedy.

Barbershop: The Next Cut Is heartfelt, thought-provoking, and above all
funny. 

Absolutely recommended for teens and adults and to anyone sad and
exhausted.

I guarantee you this fantastic comedy with amazing Black people will
cheer you from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been more than 10 years since our last appointment at Calvin's
Barbershop. Calvin (Ice Cube) and his longtime crew, including Eddie
(Cedric the Entertainer), are still there, but the shop has undergone
some major changes. Most noticeably, our once male-dominated sanctuary
is now co-ed. The ladies bring their own flavor, drama and gossip to
the shop challenging the fellas at every turn. Despite the good times
and camaraderie within the shop, the surrounding community has taken a
turn for the worse, forcing Calvin and our crew to come together to not
only save the shop, but their neighborhood. I loved this hilarious
movie and the Black women were so cute and smart. This excellent film
has an impressive political satire theme of reformation and not just
satire in itself.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually love this movie. It was good, it was funny, it was
interesting! There wasn't a boring part. It had a good life lesson
learner for kids. I enjoy the cast of the movie. Everyone did awesome
with their acting. I highly recommend this movie for anyone who's
looking to see it and was wondering how it was (and I'm not the type of
person to go see movies like this!). Great family movie with old school
and modern day jokes that's good for all ages. I'd love for it to be an
everyday TV show (that's how much I loved it)! So many personalities
and situations going on all at once just comes you engaged into it. Go
see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I had a suspicion when going to watch this movie that it's going to be
a recycled pile of boring-repetitive jokes, ploys and twists.
Unfortunately my nightmare was manifested, this movie offered nothing
new, creativity was as dead as a dodo. To put it simply, it's a shoddy
reboot of the original Barbershop.

The movie plays out in the following sequence; Barbershop is successful
with the regulars, insert some crude comedy in relation to some sordid
situations, neighbourhood issues awakens people up, Barbershop wants to
close due to these circumstances, Barbershop re-opens with a glittering
end.
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and then my mother and I go to the movies because she enjoys
it. One day she asked me if I wanted to see Barbershop: The Next Cut at
the dollar movies. I had overheard from a few acquaintances that it was
a decent movie, and I couldn't find anything more interesting showing
so I decided to see it with her. I had never seen any of the prior
Barbershops so I didn't know what to expect. I figured why not, I had
nothing better to do and thought maybe I would watch a decent movie and
get a few chuckles in. Boy oh boy was I asking for too much.

Right away within the first two minutes I knew the kind of nonsense I
would have to sit through. It starts off talking about how awesome of a
president Barack Hussein Obama is, and how black people are oppressed
and blah blah blah (let it be known that I am not white. Sorry to
disappoint you race-card players). I figure, "whatever, it won't last",
but silly me. As the first few minutes played out, every liberal
progressive talking point gets thrown in my face so fast I feel like
I'm watching CNN. With horrendous acting, the illiterates working at
the barbershop (which is co-ed, because you can't forget "gender
equality") ramble on about how white man is so bad, and that the white
man is the reason for their failures and shortcomings and how they need
to take back power, how guns and cops are evil, black lives matter, and
how the gangster Michael Brown was a victim despite the fact that other
races are killed more frequently. I mean, people talk like Brown was
walking home from Med School when he was shot. The list goes on and on.
Amidst an argument among the illiterates about the tyrannical Caucasian
race, the token Middle Eastern of the diverse group says, "Look guys, I
don't like white people either". Can you imagine if a white person said
that about black people? But this is different so it gets a pass i
guess. There is no rhyme or reason to any of this stuff being brought
up other than to appeal to the brainwashed population that eats this
stuff up. The camera has an annoying tendency to make sure that the "NO
GUNS ALLOWED" sign is always clearly visible in the background, and
when our beloved protagonist Ice Cube apprehends a gun, he looks at it
like he never saw one before. I'm not even 15 minutes into the movie
and I feel pathetic just being in the same room. Here you have a bunch
of millionaire actors pretending to be oppressed and poor and crying
like victims, only to cash their million dollar checks and go back to
their lavish lifestyle.

The movie at times will take a break from it's communist agenda (but
not really) to develop its plot, which is so hilariously sad that I
have every reason to believe that these script writers belong in strait
jackets. When two members of rival gangs have an altercation in the
barbershop, the illiterates decide that it's time to take action! Let's
do something to stop the gun violence! YEAH!! So what do they do to try
to stop violence in the neighborhood? FREE HAIRCUTS! What better way to
stop bloods and crips from murdering each other than free haircuts?!
OMG Why has nobody thought of this before?!! If only every neighborhood
in America with a high crime rate gave out free haircuts to its people
then we wouldn't have this senseless gun violence guys! It's so
obvious!! It's so sad seeing how out of touch with reality some people
are.

I apologize if my review was too political, but that's exactly what
this movie is; too political, with not even an iota of intelligence
involved with it. I would have walked out of the movie if I was not
with my mother. If you have the slightest bit of self-respect, do not
see this movie. Do not support the Hollywood idiots that are so out of
touch with reality.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the barbershop movies that have came out I would say that
this one is my favorite ones out of all the barbershop. They did a lot
of great things with this movie it was very funny but at the same time
it was a lot going on with all the crime that has been going on. One
part in the movie that was sad was when one boy was just walking down
the street and someone shot and killed him right on the corner of his
street. In this movie they had a lot of great actors that made the
movie more interesting to watch. It also teaches the young children
that life is not a game and you should stay out of the streets. Its
never OK for young children to go out and sell drugs. Young children
should stick to getting an education instead of trying to fit with the
cool kids its OK to be different. I like how in the movie that change
the barbershop around. Before when you went to the barbershop only men
could go in and get their hair cut and when I went too see the
barbershop: The Next Cut men and women could go in and get their hair
done.
<|_=00=_|>
When Barbershop came out in 2002, I felt it was a great comedy, because
it was hilarious, and it had a great message, so naturally a belated
sequel excited me. The cast from the old film is gone, except for Ice
Cube and Cedric the Entertainer, who are back. Barbershop: The Next Cut
is funny, contains a heartwarming message, and features a lot more
depth than many would expect from a comedy. It should be noted now, I
do feel that the original Barbershop was a better all around film.

Barbershop: The Next Cut as a comedy alone, isn't hilarious but is
quite funny, and will have a few good moments of laughter, but nothing
truly hilarious. From the comedy perspective, one character helps keep
these films funny, and that's Cedric the Entertainer. Unfortunately, I
watched the film comparing it to the original, and the original was
clearly funnier, as the focus in "The Next Cut" was not on the comedy
as much. The only problem with that is that in Barbershop the film was
so funny, that when it switched to being serious, those moments
resonated with the audience, where in this film they don't resonate as
much.

The film does try to be serious quite often, which isn't a surprise,
and in fact is one of the best elements of the film. However you take
the message, it's a good message, and putting a message that we can all
agree upon in a comedy makes it even better. The film does a really
great job reflecting on the community structure of today, ironically
though the message, while directed at poverty stricken places, isn't
limited exclusively to one of place or group of people, we all can
learn from this movie. 

As happened with Barbershop in 2002, "The Next Cut" has an unexpected
amount of emotional depth. It's refreshing in the climate of modern
comedies, where many of them are mechanical, that a comedy can show so
much depth. The Next Cut, much like it's predecessor is able to be both
funny and serious, making the moments when it is serious even more
powerful. It's also nice to see a group with so much chemistry that
they feel and look like a real community, so when they fight it feels
real.

In the end Barbershop: The Next Cut is a really good comedy film, that
does exactly what comedy should do, makes you laugh and teaches you
life lessons along the way. The film is both funny, and emotional,
which is really refreshing when some comedies are neither. The only
thing for those who love the original Barbershop is that "The Next
Cut", in my opinion, is not quite as good, but is extremely close. For
anybody that wants a good relaxing time at the theater, this movie is a
perfect choice.
<|_=00=_|>
'Barber Shop: The Next Cut' is that Hollywood classic, the sequel gone
bad. The original was original, witty, joyously coarse and endless fun.
This takes the same bunch of delightful performers (Ice Cube, Cedric
the Entertainer and more, including including the splendid J.B.Smoove),
and saddles them with a preachment on ghetto uplift. Not only that,
there's a side order of gender equality and a dash of the need for
sisterly solidarity. The result is that the original movie, which was a
delicious guilty pleasure, has been turned into a slow-moving tract of
the sort that earnest do-gooders think is hip and persuasive. All in
all, this sequel has so much heart it has lost its soul.
<|_=00=_|>
I am never a fan of comedy movies having sequels and three-quels, very
few can pull it off and when I saw the first trailer for this I wasn't
excited at all. I ended up seeing this movie out of default. I wanted
to see Jungle Book (but my friend wanted to take his boyfriend to see
it so this was the only option LOL). I, pretty much, had low
expectations going. I was very intrigued all the way through. About an
hour in, I whispered to my friend "ummm...this is actually a really
good movie."

Of course, like most films, it's not without its flaws but those are
more subjective based on the individual's taste. But its nothing that
cant be forgiven. There are some corny parts and some of the subject
matter was a bit surface level but when it's a family film, I know that
there not gonna go to in depth into politics, cheating, gang violence,
etc. 

What I enjoyed the most about it, is that there was an ongoing story
line outside of the theme of the Barbershop. Everyone involved got a
chance to shine and you didn't feel like many of the characters were
just there. A lot of the social topics that were tackled in each
Barbershop scene was very surface level (which is one flaw that I
stated before) but it kind of had to be because if you delved deeper
than it would have turned into the writers/director trying to force
their own opinion on the audience. But it was meant to just open the
door for the conversation to continue.

The comedy did what it was supposed to do. There were many corny parts,
where I felt like the actors were reaching and there were some parts
where laughed out loud. 

My main gripe was with Nicki Minaj's character. She just played
herself. She wasn't bad, it's just I'd be more impressed with her if
she took a role that was the complete opposite of her hand as an
artist. 

All in all, I would definitely recommend this film to anyone. It's a
fun, family film that is 100% enjoyable if you watch it with no
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd give this movie a good 9 out of 10 this was a very good one they
did a lot of grea things with this movie it was very very funny but at
the same time a lot was going on at this time and had a lot of great
actors in this movie that did awesome made the movie even better than
it was suppose to be if I had a chance I would definitely go see this
movie another time it's worth the 11:50 and popcorn. They was very
creative it follows in the plot of the last couple of barbershops made
i would say this is the best one made Ice cube really did his best in
this movie he really was into his character he played a good role the
whole setting with the whole crime in Chicago thing and going it to the
balaclava history type thing and saying how bad it is in these streets
and what these cops are doing to these kids out here
