
Dear Hollywood. This is how to do it wrong. Take a much loved nostalgia
item and childhood institution like Jem, Ignore the source material,
alienate the true fan base, Fail to advertise to the tween girl fan
base and fail to mention its a family movie suitable for moms and
daughters. I hate this movie. Because it is not what it claims to be.
Jem and the Holograms. This is Hanna Montana with a be yourself and
love your friends final moral. 

Advertised as a re imagining(under a different Title) and presented to
moms and daughters as a good family movie it could have done well. It
is a touching and well told story, The acting is good and the plot is
OK. But It is Not Jem. It was not well advertised and Kids now Don't
know or care who Jem was. This was a film for 30+ year olds who grew up
with it. And had we been given what we remembered we would have
rewarded the studio with our money. But it was made for 14 year olds
who have seen the same thing before as Hanna Montana. 

So ends the one shot we will get at a Jem movie. A badly
presented/advertised fraud that was a good family movie and had its
potential ignored.
<|_=00=_|>
Really - it was truly outrageous because of how terrible it was. Jem in
name only. This movie resembled absolutely NOTHING from the series and
the acting was so cringeworthy, I could barely watch them spew their
lines out. I would like to blame it on their youth, but there are many
young female actors who are far superior. I really am disappointed in
this movie, the trailer on YouTube has more dislikes than likes, that's
how terrible it is. After all the excitement I had about finally seeing
a Jem movie in the works, I can't really explain how I feel let down by
it. If you grew up wanting to be Jem, like I did, then seriously you're
going to leave the theatre feeling annoyed and quite frankly bored. The
storyline left a lot to be desired, it really felt more like Hannah
Montana than the Holograms - a pretty-yet-plain "uncool" sobbing girl
who magically becomes a web sensation overnight, even though she's not
a cat playing the piano - it just didn't feel real, especially when a
wig and pink eyeshadow are hardly the tools of a master of disguise. It
was genuinely nothing like I remember, nothing like the girls who
inspired me to dye my hair bright colors and it was a total waste of
money.
<|_=00=_|>
People... i think the 8-10 star reviews must be cast and staff of the
film... bad... really bad... call it Hanna Montana the reckoning before
you call it Jem. Please don't believe what they are saying above.. they
already used social media to trick fans with their bogus casting call
out and nicked you-tube scenes...

The acting is phoned in and talentless... the plot is recycled bumph
that a four year old would wright and was mind numbing boring.. so much
so i counted the hairs in my forearm to keep sane.... there were 12 as
i pulled the rest out to form my own entertainment. Buy the DVD if you
want a shiny Frisby or wind catcher.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get down to brass tax, folks: Jem and the Holograms is out to rob
you of your money. I don't mean that literally, like the movie comes in
to your pockets and takes it all away, but... well, it's pretty close
to that. Now, first off, two positive notes here: 1), the lead of the
movie as "Jem", Aubrey Peeples, is a charming young actress and is
ideally cast (Juliette Lewis is good too... at first, until she has to
repeat the same thing scene after scene). Peeples is not a
mind-blowingly amazing singer, but she is decent enough with just her
screen presence on her own, and I hope to see her in other movies.
Secondly, the cinematography, for the *actual film*, is nice to look
at, at least when you can tell what's going on (some of the film is
edited quickly in its clichéd style. So, not completely terrible. Just
mostly.

Why does this movie 'pocket' your money? It has no good reason to
exist, for one thing. It posits itself as being out there for fans of
the show and young girls, that I assume is the primary audience for
this movie (and I guess people like me who hear about a notorious movie
and get curious, but I digress). It's not good for either; while I have
not seen much of the original 80's show - it had its 15 minutes just
before I got into TV as a kid, and it didn't seem to have the longevity
that other shows at the time did, even as nostalgia - I don't know what
it has to do with the series except for the smallest references. Maybe
because it would be slightly less intolerable as a cartoon(?) Who
knows. As for young/teenage girls, it just loads up so many clichés
into one movie to the point where it looks like it's about to explode:
it's all about telling girls to keep positive and put their music out
there... because people can become sensationally famous from 36,000
YouTube views, you know.

It's supposed to have some kind of basis with the Justin Bieber
phenomenon (the Bieber doc from a few years back had the same director
as this by the way, mega-hack John M Chu). Forget that it took Bieber
years of putting his stuff out there, and putting *himself* out there,
but the fame for Jerrica-cum-Jem comes from one not-very-good song that
gets a ton of hits. This movie doesn't understand how social media or
youtube or fans of pop music really works, and that's what makes it
insulting since, well, young girls and teenagers use this stuff
practically more than anyone else out there! 

As for the plot, goodness, which part? There's a robot named Synergy
which Jerrica's (dead) father made when she was a little girl, and the
robot has been in her possession for all these years and it finally
comes alive as this super-advanced-piece-of-AI (i.e. this could've been
a robot in WALL-E), and what does the robot do... it gives Jerrica
clues that are sending her to different parts of the city - one of them
just happens to be one of the gigs that Jem plays with her sister and
fellow foster-family people - and it all leads up to a revelation that
is... a video that is a, well, should I spoil this? To say that it is
one of the most underwhelming things in movie history isn't hyperbole,
especially if you are actually invested (somehow) in this story.

This movie jumbles this half-***ed plot with the
rise-and-sorta-fall-and-OK thing with this pop group and what happens
when Juliette Lewis' would-be evil music promoter gets her hands on
them and after forming them into pop stars she makes Jem sign with her
to go solo... because she's somehow so far more talented than the rest
of the group(!) 

The idea is to emphasize the theme of togetherness of family, but the
filmmakers go through the clichés of a group falling apart and coming
back together in such a short span of time it doesn't mean anything.
The conflict here is confounding and lame, and it leads up to a wholly,
ridiculously unnecessary heist sub-plot involving objects that should
NOT have to be stolen. And how do these objects work as they do in the
movie? Jem and the Holograms is also cheap as hell, which is
interesting given how this is from a major studio (Universal, mostly on
a roll this year with mega-hits), and also from the same toy company
that put out this show as well as Transformers and My Little Pony in
the 80's. I think Corman put more money into Rock N Roll High School.
I'd say it was a cash grab about the property of the cartoon, but were
people clamoring for it? 

It's a cynical move that even involves just regular people - I doubt
the YouTube commenters who are featured in the film were paid much less
are actors - and if it didn't have this name and licensed piece of
whatever then it would be at best on the Disney channel. So much of the
movie either doesn't make sense, or features to keep people's attention
the lamest pop music ever; I was pining for the days of Tiffany, it's
that level of WTF.

It's one thing to make a movie that panders to an audience. It's
another thing to mess up which audience it's for and mess up the
attraction part of it all. It's not even the Transformers for girls,
it's too cheap for that (and distractingly so, notice the audiences for
the Jem shows that is cheated to look bigger than it is). To put it
another way, look how the actual NAME of the movie is crowbarred in at
the very end. It's that level of monumental (if occasionally watchable)
BS.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure what the point of calling this Jem and the Holograms is.
It bears no real connection to the fun '80s cartoon series. Instead,
this is a boring and predictable teen drama that rips off everything
from Hannah Montana to Earth to Echo. So you make a property based on
an old cartoon and toy line and then proceed to alienate any viewers
who might want to check it out for nostalgia's sake. On top of that,
your movie kinda blows anyway so you can forget adding any new fans.
The songs suck, the actors are forgettable, and the script doesn't have
a single original idea. There's also this annoying YouTube crap that
keeps popping up. I get it. You're trying to make a Jem for the
generation that has such a thing as "YouTube popular." That's an idea
that should have been killed in any of the pre-production meetings they
undoubtedly had before this thing was made. It's a misfire from start
to finish. It likely won't appeal to any of the fans of the original
Jem and I can't imagine it will hold much appeal to any younger fans,
excepting those who might be crushing on a couple of the actors.
<|_=00=_|>
** may contain spoilers, may not... read at your own risk ** This movie
was NOTHING even close to the "Jem and the Holograms" cartoon.. to the
point that it's being dubbed "Jem in Name Only".. you know a movie is
awful when the Official preview on YouTube has more Dislikes than
Likes.. and to add more insult to this junk the pirates aren't even
bothering to rip it off.

They didn't even consult with the shows creator on this movie.
destroyed the whole origin of "Jem" and turned it into a cross between
Justin Beiber & Hanna Montana.

Save your $$$ and watch something else, this will ruin your memories of
"Jem and the Holograms"..
<|_=00=_|>
It's pretty easy to spot the industry reviews here. Took my niece and
nephew over the weekend to see this one and afterwards they told me
that they would have rather stayed home and been forced to do cleaning
chores around their house for 2 hours. It simply amazes me how God
awful some kids movies like this one can turn out to be. They have to
be paying the actors minimal scale. There didn't seem to be any vision
or direction with the script in this one. Seems like they were trying
too hard to make the 80s out to be even more cheesier than it needed to
be. The acting was terrible in this one. I would not waste your time or
money going to see this. It isn't even worthy of watching as a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Jem & The Holograms when I was little. Granted, the animation
was simple, story was practically non-existent and the characters were
so transparent that the adult me cried blood. But I had no idea that
the movie people would do this.

Jem and the Holograms the movie is like they dug Jem from her grave,
put some ground meat on her using a duct tape and finally sprinkled
glitter all over the corpse. Yes, it's that bad. And no, I'm not
exaggerating.

The only good thing about this movie is that we, who have seen it, can
warn the others from watching it. Avoid the urge of clawing your eyes
out and don't watch this. Also avoid getting your blood pressure
skyrocketing by not watching this.

Did I emphasize it enough? Don't. Waste. Your. Time.
<|_=00=_|>
Highly disappointing movie. I am a fan of the original Jem, yes, but I
am also a teen and part of the target demographic of this monstrosity
of a failure. Even if I look at it without comparing it to the original
it's just overall bad. The plot was sloppy and cliché (often making no
sense how they got from point A to point B), the characterization was
poorly done and all over the place, and the dialogue was awkward. The
story was much too rushed and was highly unlikely. Normally I'm fine
with implausible stories in a fun, light-hearted sci fi about a pop
star and her sisters, except they removed all the fun and sci fi and
attempted to replace it with forced angst. The most accurate part of
the movie was the fact that Rio is just as unlikable as he was in the
80s. If you're looking for a laugh, you came to the right place. If you
want modern Jem, look to the comic book series because it is a 100%
better reboot.
<|_=00=_|>
It always amazes me when the big shots of Hollywood decide to adapt a
popular property into a film and then change everything about it and
expect the fans not to notice. "Jem and the Holograms" is yet another
such cautionary tale, proving once again that for an industry whose job
it is to figure out what people like, they can still be surprisingly
clueless.

For those who don't know, "Jem" was an unmistakably 80's cartoon about
an all-female rock band fronted by two sisters, whose deceased father
left them an insanely advanced computer that could produce realistic
holograms which the heroine, Jerrica Benton, used to alter her
appearance and live a double life as a world famous rock star. There
was also a rival girl group called the Misfits who, with their
unscrupulous manager, Eric Raymond, sought to unseat Jem from the top
of the charts. I remember it being notable because of the fact that,
despite being a show targeted towards girls, it seemed to connect with
boys as well.

OK, Now forget all that. Jerrica and her band are now foster teenagers,
Eric Raymond is a woman who now owns the company that Jerrica
originally owned, and is the mother of Jerrica's future boyfriend, Rio.
Synergy has gone from a supercomputer to a tiny robot with missing
pieces scattered all over Los Angeles County. Drummer Shana is no
longer black. The Misfits do appear but only at the very end for a
sequel hook. It comes off as more of a cross between "Hannah Montana"
and "Earth To Echo." 

This movie tries too hard to be hip. Jerrica gets discovered through
Youtube, and lip service is paid to twitter and instagram throughout
the movie. I understand thinking a younger audience would be turned off
by the big hair and gaudy costumes of the original but in doing so,
they likely alienated older fans and the movie is so bland it failed to
excite younger ones.

This movie is also crippled by a woefully tight budget. Jem's live
performances are in small clubs vainly dressed and shot to look bigger
than they are. Footage of Jimmy Fallon, Duane Johnson, and Chris Pratt
are used to emphasize Jem's fame but their quotes are obviously out of
context and the editing is bungled horribly. One of the most baffling
decisions is to use random Youtube clips for scene transitions,
montages, and even in place of music cues or camera work to build
tension. In other spots, Google Earth is used for location transitions
and at one point they don't even hide the logo.

The script is filled with odd plot twists and the characters frequently
behave like idiots. For starters, these people have little
understanding of the music business. Erica Raymond signs Jerrica after
one viral video with a paltry 35K views in Jerrica's own house because
who needs an office? Then Jerrica refuses to sign unless she can bring
her band despite the fact that her bandmates are an unproven commodity
and Erica actually acquiesces. Of course, evil Erica eventually seduces
Jerrica to go solo out of desperation to save her aunt's mortgage and
Jerrica just signs without going to her friends for help.

The Synergy robot awakens upon arriving in LA and leads them on a wild
goose chase for its missing parts just to give Jerrica a farewell video
from her dad. Her dad is seen in flashbacks constantly doting on
Jerrica but acting like her sister doesn't exist. Synergy's final
missing part is Jerrica's star earrings which Erica has locked away in
her office. Does she simply ask Erica for them? No, she decides to
break in at night and steal them, not to mention the ridiculous
deduction involved in figuring out they were the last piece. Finally,
Rio just happens to find his father's will in the safe with the
earrings naming him the owner of Starlight Records. Wouldn't the family
lawyer have told him this already? 

The worst part is that this film has hardly any music. The cartoon
managed to feature three songs in its half-hour episodes and didn't
reuse them until years later. They weren't always good, but it couldn't
have been worse than the bland tween pop featured here. There are only
really three songs (four if you count the acapella on the pier with
Rio) and the only one that even barely rises above mediocrity is
"Youngblood." 

The performances are probably the best part of the movie though that's
not saying much. Aubrey Peeples as Jerrica is OK, not great. The other
girls do all right despite not having much of a character. Juliette
Lewis gives the best performance mainly because, as the villain, she
gets to have the most fun. The worst performance is from Kesha's brief
cameo as Pizazz at the end. She tries to be wicked with her one big
line, but mostly comes off looking stoned. I'm almost glad there won't
be a sequel because she would likely ruin it.

I really don't understand what they were thinking here. "Jem and the
Holograms" is an insulting, poorly made cash grab that deserved better
and the worst part is that movie studios will use its failure as a
reason not to give it another shot. It's one of those movies that makes
you wonder why they didn't just call it something else if they weren't
going to be faithful to the source material. It's also one of those
movies that makes you think it turned out the way it did because the
studios feared a faithful adaptation wouldn't be successful, and maybe
it wouldn't have been, who knows? It certainly couldn't have done worse
than the (current) fourth lowest wide screen theater gross and getting
yanked from theaters after two weeks, I know that.
