
I am a bit of nerd of this kind of realistic science fiction movies and
therefore I had high expectations of this movie. I regret to say I was
disappointed.

The movie tells the story of how the main character struggles to
survive on Mars and how the space agencies work to get them back. But I
was missing the emotions, the human touch. The main character never
displays any signs of loneliness, despair or fear. He is more like "oh,
looks like I'm stuck on Mars, let's grow potatoes". He makes a one- off
reference to his parents in an electronic communication, but nowhere in
the movie is it made clear what his main drive is to want to return to
Earth. It appears as nothing ties him there. Maybe the directors wanted
to avoid the cliché of the eight months pregnant and terminally ill
wife eagerly awaiting her husband's return from a dangerous mission,
but even a cliché had been better than nothing. His character is also
too flat. The only character trait that is highlighted slightly in the
movie is that he may be a bit too smug about himself. Nothing else to
make me identify or sympathize with him. To be honest, I couldn't have
cared less if he had not survived.

The Mars landscape is beautifully rendered en very credible with dust
clouds and all. This is the main attraction of the movie.

The main problem that there is nothing novel about this movie. There
have been better movies for every aspect of the film:

Human aspect/psychology of being marooned in a strange place: Cast Away
did it so much better; set in space: Matt Damon's role in Interstellar
was more credible than his performance here. Space action scenes:
Gravity had me on the edge of my seat Ground control scenes: Apollo 13
already set the standard

In summary, the movie is a beautiful, but hollow shell.
<|_=00=_|>
The crew of an American base on Mars are forced to make an emergency
departure leaving one crew-member behind presumed dead. But he is
alive! Can the stranded astronaut find a way of communicating his
plight to those on Earth and survive while he awaits rescue? 

A fairly standard 'castaway' plot but one which offers many dramatic
possibilities. Unfortunately few of these are realised in this
pedestrian movie which fails to generate any significant dramatic
tension. This is partly because the characterisation is thin but also
because the challenges the stranded astronaut faces seem to be so
easily overcome. Starvation? Grow potatoes. Punctured space-helmet?
Sticky tape. Mars rover vehicle lacking power? Wire up a few solar
cells. Communications equipment destroyed? Motor over to a handy Mars
lander. We never sense that the 'Martian' (Matt Damon) is in a
desperate, mind- and body-sapping struggle against the odds
(conveniently he is a botanist).

Damon effectively portrays the 'Martian' as a likable guy but the
problem is how to fill the two hours of the movie that remain after he
is stranded? When a character is alone and unable to communicate it
needs something exceptional to keep us glued to the screen. Maybe
what's going on back home will do it. Not really because the cast of
characters there are verging on cardboard cut-outs. The returning crew?
Likewise. And the script is written on the assumption that the audience
is a little dumb, e.g. A: It will be 500 Sols (Martian days) before we
can rescue him. B: But his food will run out in 300 sols. C: So he'll
die before we get there. Indeed! And so may we. 

The movie has some good FX and the Martian landscape looks convincing.
But there's nothing exceptional here to compensate for the lack of an
effectively told story.

In essence this is an American feel-good fantasy film, celebrating
ideals of technical omnipotence, racial harmony, gender equality and
international collaboration (with those cool Chinese guys and gals). If
only it were so. No wonder the credits rolled to the tune of The O'
Jays singing 'Love Train'. School-kids will probably join in! But, to
quote Sam Goldwyn, 'Include me out!'

(Viewed at the Odeon, Warrington, 06 October 2015)
<|_=00=_|>
I can't really believe that I just finished watching a Ridley Scott
science fiction movie and feeling this low, this one never felt like
anywhere close to any of his classics. This is just nothing but a
typical Hollywood s***. Matt did a poor performance as a character who
is caught in a life and death situation. He is not scared or emotional
but instead he keeps throwing Hollywood typical punch dialogues on your
face like an Avenger hero when you are expecting Science. A make-up
artist or a sound engineer from the set of "Big bang theory" would have
written better science script and dialogues. For me there are plenty of
"WTF" or "Seriously?" moments in this movie and I wonder what happened
to one of the favorite directors of all time. Also repetitive high
five/triumph scenes where we don't feel anything. To brief: Drag, bad
drama, insensitive emotional scenes, poor acting, very less science,
predictable and not at all funny punch dialogues! Just YIFY it, don't
buy!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually like to give movie reviews - but it was a hot weekend
and I figured maybe I'd venture out and see what the culture had to
offer. So just how bad was "The Martian?" So bad that after an hour I
realized I would rather be back in the sweltering 97 degree heat than
sitting in an air conditioned theater listening to anymore inane dialog
(lines like "F**k you Mars!" and "I'm going to science the S**T out of
it!") In fact it would appear that a prerequisite for going into the
space program is at least six months of doing stand up. (BAD stand up.)
Why does everyone (and I mean EVERYONE) in the movie sound like one of
those guys on "The Big Bang Theory?" Snarky and idiotic and always
cracking wise. Also: Why did every character, while typing, READ what
he's typing out loud? Has anyone ever done this EVER? And what was with
all the expository dialog, (the whole script was expository as far as
I'm concerned) Throughout the movie Matt Damon talks into a video
camera, making a diary and yet he only says things that everyone who
would potentially WATCH the video would of course already know, things
like: "Oh yeah, did I tell you? I'm a botanist." It's clear he was
attempting to speak directly to the viewer and NOT the imaginary
audience in the movie itself. This is the laziest kind of writing there
is. They don't know how to deliver plot anymore except to dump bowling
balls of ham fisted information in your lap; telling you things you've
already figured out in the most obvious way possible. That meant that
there was absolutely ZERO tension. It was like reading an instruction
manual for a microwave oven. "How do I grow potatoes? Oh look there's
some poo." (cue the laugh track) And Ridley Scott's direction was as
slack as an industrial film. False stakes, false resolutions, false
falseness. Now,I know I only managed to make it through the first hour
or so; maybe it got really good after that, but I was starting to feel
my brain cells beginning to atrophy so it was from a sense of self-
preservation that I skedaddled out of there when I did. (And don't get
me started on the disco songs and requisite jokes about 'bad musical
taste.' It was just more target-market reconstituted nostalgia-bait.)
If there is a more unoriginal, un-involving, unbelievable waste of time
out there, I haven't seen it. So of course: Line up the Oscars!
<|_=00=_|>
It's so frustrating when so many people like and praise a movie that
really doesn't deserve it. The Martian is such a movie. I had such high
hopes for it after all the hype, and after reading reviews by smart
critics I usually agree with, but it was such a disappointment. Here's
why: 

Plausibility. Just like Gravity, there are so many non-sensical
depictions of the physics of space travel, it makes my head hurt, and
I'm not even a physicist. The characters and their actions are pretty
implausible too, starting with Damon's chipper attitude about being
left alone on a planet 100 million miles from Earth, but certainly not
ending there. After realizing he is alone and will be for so long that
he will run out of food, he gets the brilliant idea to try to grow his
own, which we are supposed to take as a mark of his plucky brilliance.
But he's a botanist! What would a botanist be doing on a space mission
*except* studying how things grow? And then when an accident causes all
his potato plants to die, the brains at NASA (who can't believe he
figured a way to grow potatoes in the first place) instantly conclude
(and tell us) that since the accident froze all the bacteria in the
soil, he won't be able to grow any more. Why not? He still has potatoes
to eat, and he still, presumably, shits occasionally, so he has all the
ingredients he used the first time. Ugh! My brain hurts! 

Writing. The script seems written more by market researchers than a
screenwriter. Corny little one-liners ("My balls are frozen!") appeal
to the lowest common denominator in the audience, and the relentlessly
happy tone makes being stranded on Mars seem like a big party, complete
with disco music (literally). And the dialog!! There's a moment when
Jeff Daniels, the head of NASA (whom it is hard to imagine has ever
ever taken a science class or piloted anything) talks to the heads of
the Chinese Space agency who offer (presumedly--we only hear his end of
the conversation) to lend one of their ships to the rescue effort. He
says, "Mmm Hmm. Okay. I see. Thank you." (That's what a discussion
about loaning spacecraft between two space agencies sounds like.) Then
he hangs up the phone, clenches his fists, and says, "Yes!" It's like
Homer Simpson finding out there is still one donut left. That someone
wrote that line is astounding. That the director and actor saw fit to
actually shoot it is bewildering. That it survived the editing process
and made it into the final cut--well, there should be an investigation. 

Pacing. It's a movie about being stranded on Mars for months and
months. Why does it feel like a comedy by Woody Allen or Edgar Wright?
There is never a pause, never a prolonged quiet moment that might begin
to capture something of the unbelievable space and loneliness this
movie is supposed to be about. Instead, it is a constant rapid fire of
dialog and action. Even the scenes where he is communicating with Earth
via text happens faster than I usually get with my iPhone and 4G. (NASA
technicians mention, at one point, that there is a 25 minute delay
between all communications, but the filmmakers hope we forget this two
minutes later when all the subsequent conversations happen instantly).
Then there is the rest of the crew and their additional unplanned two
years of extra time stuck in the spaceship, going all the way BACK to
Mars to pick up what they left there. If I have to run back home to get
something I forgot, the trip always seems infuriatingly long. But not
these cheery space travelers! Another two years in space! No problem!
And it takes only two minutes of screen time. Piece of cake! 

AGH! What a frustrating experience. If you want a sugar-coated popcorn
movie that will make you think that if being on stranded on Mars isn't
really so bad, why complain about our petty little problems here on
Earth? then this movie might be for you. It does for being stranded in
space what The Shawshank Redemption does for being in prison. It tries
to tell us that it's really not THAT bad after all. It's such a lie,
and such a disappointment, all the more so because there are so many
serious issues and exciting psychological and scientific aspects about
space that could have been explored here.
<|_=00=_|>
I wish I liked this movie more like a lot of moviegoers who are giving
it good to even great reviews, but I left the theater with a bitter
taste in my mouth I had to write this review to reconcile my feelings.

Imagine a movie that takes from the glory of Gravity, Cast Away and
Apollo 13 which also tries to be as hilarious and groovy as Guardians
of The Galaxy at times but fails? You've got The Martian. The first 1/3
of the movie was quite engaging: An astronaut on Mars expedition team
gets left behind after a huge storm because he was assumed dead. But he
was alive and we watch him try and utilize every cell of his brains and
science savvy to survive until help comes. But once he gets out of
initial danger things get all too predictable and over-wrought. Couple
of annoyances: 141 mins. About 30 mins too long for the storyline.
There were too many mentions of Disco music the commander of the
mission left behind to ill effect, unconvincing supporting characters
on the Earth who seem to be just reciting a script, and some characters
the movie shouldn't have had whatsoever (such as Kristen Wiig). 

Did Matt Damon do a good job ? I thought so until they showed a body
double that didn't even resemble him and from there nothing he did was
believable unfortunately. Had Damon actually lost weight without using
a body double, I might have gotten more into the movie. But then again,
he is no Christian Bale. So I wasn't expecting it but a little weight
loss would have made him more convincing. 

A few good acting jobs came from Michael Pena and Benedict Wong whose
characters added to the storytelling instead of subtracting it in the
midst of too many unnecessary characters reciting an already weak
script.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie can be summed up with one word... vapid. As if Matt Damon's
inherently vapid acting weren't bad enough, the makers of this film
were so overtly focused on presenting an idyllic reality where no
character behaves in any offensive way, to anybody, they produced an
un-suspenseful, uninteresting, boring, vapid turd of a story. They fall
over themselves to be so certain that no minority demographic is
stereotyped that all characters have the sane vapid personality. And in
what seems to be some sort of perverse effort to recompense reality, a
very transparent hierarchy is followed to be certain that: the Black
people are the most clever; the Hispanic people are next most clever;
the Asian people are next most clever(carefully not portrayed as
exceptionally smart), and of course the women are more clever than the
men. Of course the only flawed demographic were older white male
authority figures. To me this liberal, philosophical portrayal of what
an ideal reality is reveals that they are the true bigots, the haters.
They hate the differences that make people interesting. Ethnicity,
femininity / masculinity, and their different traits should be loved
and celebrated, not shamed, muted, or eliminated. It is the interaction
of those differences that create an interesting story, not a vapid one.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Martian" and "Red Planet" 

I'm kind of surprised that no one has noticed the similarities "The
Martian" has to "Red Planet" with Val Kilmer, released in 2000. Here's
a few noteworthy(?) plot devices that were first seen in "Red Planet"
that seem to have coincidental reappearances in "The Martian". 

1. 

RP - Val Kilmer, by accident marooned on Mars (with other guys who get
killed off, leaving him alone),and a female commander of the mission up
in space (who eventually saves him). 

TM - Matt Damon, by accident marooned on Mars, alone, and a female
commander of the mission up in space (who eventually saves him).

2. 

RP - Val finds the Sojourner rover (which luckily just happens to be
nearby) and modifies it to call for help. 

TM - Matt finds the Sojourner rover (which luckily just happens to be
nearby) and modifies it to call for help.

3. 

RP - The female mission commander makes the decision to stay in orbit
and try to save Val. 

TM - The female mission commander makes the decision to go back and try
to save Matt. (as cold blooded as this sounds, this is the least
likelier of the two scenarios that would have the possibility to
actually happen, in reality they'd let him 'fend for himself'.) 

4. 

RP - Val must make a long arduous journey to get to a Russian sample
return launcher. 

TM - Matt must make a long arduous journey to get to a NASA mission
return launcher.

5. 

RP - Val has to modify the sample return launcher to make it work,
leaving him exposed to space when it launches.

TM - Matt has to modify the mission return launcher to make it work, he
ends up being exposed to space when it launches.

6. 

RP - The return launcher fouls up as it goes into space with Val
aboard, requiring his mission commander to go out on a tether and
retrieve him. 

TM - The return launcher fouls up as it goes into space with Matt
aboard, requiring one of the crew to go out on a tether and retrieve
him.

** Of course Matt didn't have the inconvenience of the robot dog who
was trying to kill him as Val had to contend with; but Val discovered
he could breathe the Martian air that was generated by the seeded
algae. So things even out pretty well. 

No one else noticed these because likely no one saw "Red Planet", which
while not a big hit is not without its own goofy personality charms.
<|_=00=_|>
In an era where science-fiction survival tales are becoming a popular
occurrence - with 'Interstellar' last year, and 'Gravity' the year
before - writer Andy Weir and sci-fi connoisseur Ridley Scott team up
to craft a complex tale that is carried by a single character, that
character being Mark Watney, played fantastically by Matt Damon
(Hollywood's biggest calamity, who requires being rescued... again).

As the film tees off, we are instantly given a first-person view of the
dangers of Mars and the fight for survival each astronaut is living out
each day on the planet's surface, that is until their emergency
evacuation - but nope, even Damon couldn't do that right. Abandoned
upon the desolate surface of Mars after being presumed dead by his
crew, Damon must do all he can to endure the martian environment. One
huge thing I admire about this film's plot, is that it doesn't care
about the intellectual level of its audience, as the quote above states
so well: it'll science the s**t out of them. It's such a complex and
well-executed premise that on paper seems nothing more than a
impossible feat to pull off.

Technically this film is stunning, the cinematography, the CGI, the
production design, all utterly gorgeous, and according to the Golden
Globes, it's one of the best comedies of recent years too... yeah,
sure. Admittedly the tongue-in-cheek humour does add a more fresh
appeal to the film, making it a little more unique than previous sci-fi
adventures, it piles on layers of thrills, emotional value and complex
character development to create one of the finest science fiction films
of recent years.
<|_=00=_|>
The Martian is a new Ridley Scott classic, featuring his best work in
years, the best performance I've ever seen from Matt Damon, an
outstanding supporting cast, a surprisingly funny screenplay from
Daredevil creator Drew Goddard, and a great narrative that ties the
film together beautifully. 

As expected with Ridley Scott films, the film itself is visually
stunning. The landscape of Mars looks absolutely breathtaking, and the
scenes aboard the Hermes and back on Earth are just as sharp in detail
and scope. The way he chose to make this film made it almost seem like
an exceptionally made biopic. Many times during this film, I
legitimately believed that Mark Watney was a real, living person that
was actually stranded on Mars for many months alone. It's Cast Away
meets Apollo 13, and this marriage is crafted beautifully. 

Matt Damon is absolutely brilliant in this film. He plays Watney with
so much optimism that it actually makes the depressing aspect of the
film not as depressing for me. However, when he has to put on his
dramatic chops in certain scenes, he truly commits to the drama of the
situation, and that right there is true Ridley Scott suspense for you.
The supporting cast, everyone involved, all do great work as well. Jeff
Daniels, Jessica Chastain, particularly Chiwetel Ejiofor. He is one of
the best actors working today, and this movie and 12 Years a Slave
shows how far he's come. 

The most surprisingly element about this movie though was the
screenplay. The film is hilarious in some parts, in fact I'd argue that
it's funnier than most comedies that have come out this year. What
makes to movie unique to me was Watney's optimistic point of view. He
believes that he isn't going to die on Mars, and this transforms this
rather depressing situation into something comical instead. But when
you really think about it, this is a very personal film about some
people coming together to save somebody. That's it. And in today's
world, it's nice to hear an story about people coming together to save
one of their own. 

I have nothing bad to say about The Martian. It's the best film I've
seen all year.
