
After skimming through some of these reviews, I'm not sure what people
were expecting from Knock Knock. It plays out like a cross between No
Good Deed and The Loved Ones. The story isn't original of course but
this is Eli Roth's take on a home invasion thriller and it's
refreshingly sadistic. Two strangers knock on Keanu Reeves' door, he
invites them in, their sociopathic tendencies start to peek through,
and things escalate from there. The acting is largely impressive. Keanu
comes across as silly at times but, for the most part, he fits the part
of the innocent dad and he bounces off the chemistry of the two female
leads very well.

Lorenza Izzo and Ana de Armas really make this movie what it is. They
have palpable charisma, and they provide Reeves excellent scenarios to
react to. The dialogue could sound outlandish and childish if read in a
different context, but Izzo and de Armas pull it all off with a
straight face and their character's intentions progress to the
downright sinister. It's actually interesting subject matter, and Roth
does have something to say with this film, and I believe he
accomplishes it elegantly with as little blood as possible.

Knock Knock is not perfect - it goes on for a few minutes too long and
sometimes Reeves reads lines as if he'd just shot up heroin, but it's
intriguing and truly captivating once it gets going and becomes a
psychological horror house in its finest moments. Callously covering up
a dead body with papier-mâché? That's chilling. Being buried alive?
Macabre. It's nice to see Roth hasn't lost his touch, and the humor is
definitely there intentional or not. I highly recommend this movie to
fans of home invasion thrillers. Just don't go in expecting a polished
masterpiece; Knock Knock is depraved, raw and filthy in the best ways
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Such a pathetic movie. Watched the movie 'knock knock' because of Keanu
Reeves and am so disappointed with the story line and there is nothing
thrilling about the movie. What really irritated was Keanu Reeves was
like a helpless moron who just couldn't do anything against two teenage
girls who go to his home and take him for a ride throughout the movie.
Keanu had chances to kick back but instead gets hit by a fork by a
teenage girl and gets tied up and that's so ridiculous and finally when
you expect some twist you will find that both the girls will bury the
so called matrix hero called Keanu Reeves in his own backyard unto his
neck and there ends the movie all of sudden...such a waste of money and
two hours of precious time.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Eli Roth immediately after Hostel 1. I knew this man can deal
with human nature. I follow his work since then. This feature shows a
man taken at his soft spot when he was not expecting any trouble.
Sometimes people give in to temptations of much lesser magnitude. He
made a wrong decision, he got what was coming. But the ending! Imagine
he is an idiot and cannot explain his wife that he was attacked and
framed. Imagine his wife is an idiot, did not believe him, took the
kids and divorced him. That would be the suggested ending, won't it.
What seems to be a moral story leaves an unfinished business. I want to
see the architect taking cold revenge. Track down the ladies, think a
little, and turn their lives into a living hell. They'd played their
game and had had their fun on account of the architect and other
people; now they have it coming. Give us the revenge sequel!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a rare poster here at IMDb. Good movies? They get enough praise
without me joining in the chorus. Average films? There's usually enough
people on each side to adequately debate the pros and cons. But a film
this ridiculously bad has, if nothing else, crossed whichever threshold
is required to motivate me to reset my long forgotten IMDb login
details and hopefully save some poor souls the 90 odd minutes of their
lives, and (god forbid) their hard earned on a ticket.

It's so hard to know where to begin, so, as a wiser person than me once
suggested, I will begin at the beginning. The acting, from the get go,
is so wooden, unbelievable and shallow that not only did I not feel any
connection to the characters, they were actually making me angry! Keanu
is has always been pretty one dimensional, but he takes it to a new
level with his performance here. In this role as a supposedly doting
father, it felt like he has never spent more than five minutes around
any kid. The wife was equally unconvincing and the kids were so bad
they wouldn't get a role on a home-brand cola commercial. I did however
quite like the Boston Terrier playing the role of the family pet,
'Monkey', and I feel like he did his best to carry this stinker, but
with limited screen time there was only so much he could do. 

Enter the 2 mysterious young women...who continue what has become the
well established, by now 20 minute old tradition of corny, unconvincing
Knock Knock performances.

The direction is lousy. I'm no film buff, but I watch enough of them.
When I saw Eli Roth was the director in the opening credits, I said to
my wife 'I think he has done some cool stuff'. Half way through this
stinker I looked him up, and realised that, no...no he hasn't done
anything even remotely decent in his entire career. A bit of shock
horror in Hostel, a tenuous claim to fame at best, and then nothing.
And his lack of talent is glaringly obvious here. I think I had
confused him with a hybrid of Tim Roth and possibly Elijah Wood? I
dunno...but Eli Roth shall forever more be the huge red flag he rightly
is. 

The story...let's call it a "story" for the sake of this review anyway.
There's so much that could be said, so I'll simply say that it sucked
in ways that few things have ever sucked before. It pioneers new ways
to suck that modern scientific research in sucking are yet to even
discover. 

And the final cherry on this s#!t cake, was, after breaking my spirit
and will to live, to break my heart to. Using the Pixies classic Where
is My Mind as the closing track. Which the Pixies must have
authorise...which defies comprehension. They made great money off their
last tours, and allowed it to be used to close that all time classic
Fight Club. 

And so ends my review of this diabolically bad film. If I save one
person the price of a ticket, or an hour an a half of their precious
existence, it'll have all been worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
After spending a Saturday night watching a film I've been looking
forward to see since I first saw the trailer, honestly I feel robbed of
an hour and a half I'll never get back. This movie was nothing but a
let down. To call this film a horror is like calling Spongebob
Squarepants and Thomas the tank engine both horror programs.

You cannot tell the difference between normal Keanu Reeves and tied up
petrified Keanu Reeves, it all sounded the same. Whenever he shouted it
reminded me of the best cry ever/worst cry ever video in YouTube.

Overall this movie was a huge let down, very good idea for a film but a
horrific execution. Save yourself a tenner and buy yourself a Chinese
instead of a ticket!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first review of a movie I've ever written and I wouldn't
usually do this, but felt the need to advise people to steer clear of
this movie. It was truly one of the worst movies that I've ever seen in
my life. I had high hopes for the movie before seeing it, especially
since I'm a fan of Keanu Reeves in many of his other movies. However I
found the movie to be utterly bizarre and ridiculous and struggled to
sit through the whole movie and resist the urge to leave. The acting
was really over the top at times and so painful to watch. The plot did
have potential and could have been so much better but unfortunately it
did not work at all in this movie. Many of the scenes are extremely
creepy and perverted, and not what I would expect to see in any movie.
I found parts of this movie very difficult to understand and follow, so
that I eventually lost interest completely. The ending was one of the
biggest disappointments and left me with feelings of relief that it was
finally over and feeling like I'd just wasted the last 90 minutes of my
life. Avoid this movie at all costs!!
<|_=00=_|>
There are already ...261 (!) reviews for this B (or maybe C?) movie
that came out only 2 months ago and that means something, i think.

First of all this is a remake of the movie "Death Game (1977)" starring
Sondra Locke and Colleen Camp. The 2 women are serving as producers in
the 2015 version while Colleen Camp also stars in a minor role.

This is Camp-y movie (pun intended!) with a lot of torture horror and a
couple (mild in my opinion) erotic scenes. The 2 main actresses Lorenza
Izzo and Ana de Armas look crazy enough but Keanu Reeves's performance
leave a lot to be desired. Maybe we have used to see him as a hero
(from the Matrix to John Wick) and we cannot accept to watch him being
lame and weak.

There is obviously a moral here, but the question "who could resist" is
also strongly present.

As a movie it's OK and you might have some fun watching it, but if you
can't stand movies where the "hero" does all the wrong moves maybe you
should avoid it. The direction of photography is bright and that's a
plus, but if you are a careful viewer you will find a lot of goofs
including numerous continuity errors which could ruin some of the fun.

In the end you might want for the movie to last a couple of minutes
more to see the outcome or even the true motives of what just
happened...

Overall: Not as bad as most of the other 261 reviews might want you to
believe. (Some of them compare Keanu Reeves's recent choices to those
of Nicolas Cage, so they might be driven by some hate). See it if you
want a light campy thriller for the evening.
<|_=00=_|>
Holy sh*t do I hate Eli Roth movies. Ever since Hostel and Cabin Fever
I've found his films to border on the unwatchable, and yet I watched
this one (and fully plan to watch Green Inferno), knowing that I wasn't
likely to enjoy them. Maybe I'm a glutton for punishment, or maybe I
just like spreading the Eli Roth is not very good gospel to anyone who
will listen. So, what about this one?

It's not good, at all.

We start the movie having Keanu Reeve's being a "family man" shoved
into our faces for an unbearably long time as we take a tour of his
house, which is plastered with photos of the family, evidence of
children and family is practically wallpaper in this house, and then we
see Keanu and his wife have an attempt to have sex interrupted by this
extremely loving children who have prepared a cake for father's day,
and they all spend a solid 15 minutes of the movie talking about
FATHER'S DAY, and LOVING DADDY, AND HOORAY FOR DAD ETC ETC, until you
feel like you just might throw up. They also introduce us to the family
dog (who somehow makes it to the end) and to a VERY IMPORTANT WORK OF
ART THAT IS VERY IMPORTANT (which is smashed with hammers, obviously).
So, with that extremely subtle set up, Keanu is left home alone when
his family goes on a trip without him (for some reason), and the movie
actually starts.

This has to be one of Roth's more gutless films, we've grown accustomed
to his brutal gore and violence, but this one is surprisingly void of
that. Instead, we have one death that is minor and Keanu even makes it
all the way to the end, and the girls get no comeuppance either. After
having a weird Keanu Reeves threesome, the girls reveal that they are
15 years old and Keanu is now a pedophile, which seems like it might be
the bold line that this movie takes, sort of a Hard Candy type story,
but even that turns out to be untrue when (spoiler alert) the girls
admit to being in their 20s.

The acting is awful, the story is garbage, and it's really hard to get
yourself invested in the movie at any point. Even when you think the
girls are as young as they claim to be, you find yourself wondering how
the hell they were able to subdue a full grown Keanu Reeves more than
three f**king times in the movie. In the end, because who cares, they
post a video of one of the girls having sex with Keanu (while he is
tied to a bed and protesting), as proof that Keanu is a horrible
monster, on Facebook (becauseFacebook), and of course people start
responding in horror and disgust. The girls leave him buried up to his
neck in the back yard and run along scott free, while Keanu frees a
hand (somehow) and accidentally likes the sex video instead of deleting
it. Is is that a joke Eli Roth? Because it's not funny.

Hands down, this is one of the most offensively bad movies that I've
seen in a long time, and you're much better off to skip it. Check out
John Wick instead, that movie is f**king awesome. Look forward to
seeing your next one Roth, I'm sure it'll be a masterpiece.

www.barleydoeshorror.com
<|_=00=_|>
i don't know if the movie is meant to teach us a lesson about being a
straight A father and not to f^ck total strangers no matter how pretty
they are or if the movie is just straight A piece of crap. i am so
sorry, there was just tons of loose ends, it was KINDA interesting,
just enough for you to not push the stop button while watching but
really, this is just HEARTBREAKING. i was expecting a lot since we have
keanu in the movie and the girls were just damn fine but i still feel
that i just wasted my time on this. the movie ended with an
UNSATISFYING feeling. it's just empty, everything does not make sense
at all. i should have just fapped myself to sleep.
<|_=00=_|>
I first watched this film by renting it from a Redbox. The rental is
only $1.50 and honestly the amount is so little I usually do not care
if I rent a bad movie but, I really feel like I actually wasted my
money on this film. At first this film seemed good from the trailers,
it seemed like a good twist on a thriller and it really piqued my
interest. So when I saw it on Redbox I was excited because I haven't
seen a good thriller in a long time. So when I got home and popped it
in my player after the first ten minutes I knew this film was going to
go downhill and had no end in sight. Keanu Reeves usually plays as a
strong, smart, and capable character in his movies; not a wimpy,
stupid, and really a down right moron. This fact alone disappoints me
because I am a Reeve fan and a little part of that admiration just went
away. The film started well, with him sidestepping their advances and
being seeing the girls as young and stupid, but in the bathroom scene
apparently all of that goes out the window just because they're naked.
Wow. As the film progresses it seems to become a slight against men, by
portraying them to be these idiotic, misogynistic, and sex on the brain
oafs that will do anything as long as there is a piece of "meat"
hanging in front of them. This becomes overly clear when the character,
"Genesis" has the line, "You all are the same" and "They never say no."
I understand that this is a film but to create something so bigoted and
dogmatic and think that it is acceptable; it really begins to bring to
light the morals and philosophies of the writers and producers. I know
that this will probably make some folks mad or angry but flip the
situation around. If it had been a woman on the bed getting raped by a
man, I'd put money on the fact that this movie wouldn't have made it
beyond the notepad of the first writer. We as a society tend to have
double standards that usually benefit one party or another, and I
completely understand why this happens and why it is bad. But to
campaign against this problem and to become a more accepting society,
movies like this are not helping whatsoever. I am not trying to suggest
censoring literature and media, but to have a film that is so one-sided
is very detrimental to furthering our society to become rational and
fair. Overall, I was extremely disappointed with this film. It will
only make the viewer angry and frustrated. I feel this film will only
please one particular group of people, the more radical feminist
groups. More liberal feminists will probably be angered by the movie
because it really puts a bad name on the movement, by making it seem
that this is what feminism hopes to prove. The intention of my review
is not one of contention and hostility but to give my opinion and
hopefully shine some light on the reasoning behind it. I just ask that
before you go and fire away a comment or a reply to this review, to try
and see it from a different my perspective, a 22 year old man that is
still trying to understand how the world works. Thank you. P.S. I use
the word "feminism" and "feminist," not as a derogatory remark or
slight, but just as a descriptor of a noble movement or person.
