
As an avid cat lover I was always going to enjoy this movie. And as a
person who myself suffered an addiction, and am in recovery, I totally
related to the Lead Character in every way. Whilst dealing with the
subject of addiction is a very difficult issue to cover, I thought this
movie covered it well. Highlighting the lead character's isolation,,
detachment from the outside World and people in general........and the
redemption he found by meeting Bob, a wandering cat, who just happened
to enter his life.

The touching story line that involved the developing relationship
between him and Bob was beautifully told. The cat made him smile again,
gave him a reason to live. His social skills with people were not good
but with the cat, he became stronger and happier as each day passed.

This was a wonderfully uplifting film I related to on so many levels.
Excellent acting, and Bob the cat. was the best of them !
<|_=00=_|>
I'm actually really surprised, recognising Roger Spottiswoode's name
but totally forgetting he was the director behind The 6th Day, James
Bond's Tomorrow Never Dies and another animal buddy movie, Turner &
Hooch. I haven't seen any of his work since The 6th Day and I'm not
sure why, but I'm surprised to find him behind the camera for this one.
Maybe because it's a British film of a British story, me possibly
expecting a Brit to be director? Regardless, he's a great choice as
director, especially with his experience of working with animals on
film. 

This one being a stray ginger tomcat that gets named Bob after finding
recovering drug-addict, James Bowen, played brilliant by Luke
Treadaway. Now, this busker and Bob is somewhat of a London legend, how
the two become inseparable and skirt about town busking and selling
magazines on the streets of touristy London, hitting national and local
papers and well, the outcome is fairly obvious, book deal and a film to
boot. 

Though there were quite a few cats used to play the part of Bob, it is
nice to know that the real Bob actually did quite a bit of filming. Him
being the real life littlest hobo that gladly doesn't choose to move
on. And the real life James Bowen getting his rightly deserved cameo
with a clever line of dialogue. 

Working with animals is something you get warned about when on set but
Spottiswoode certainly has a majesty way of capturing the character of
our furry friends whether it be a Dogue De Bordeaux or a polar bear
cub. It can't be an easy task and most have taken dozens of takes to
get the right frame and the editing is superbly done with animal POV
perspectives and clever camera work. 

Treadaway gives a brilliant, believable and powerful performance
conveying the hopelessness, torment and desperation effortlessly. Ruta
Gedmintas also adding some colour to the film supported by some good
British casting. It's amazing to watch the bond form between Bob and
James as they both tend to each other. 

Another two elements that stand out about this film is the music, the
busking songs performed by Treadaway himself, which help tell the story
though slightly disappointed it's music written for the film and not
songs original to the busking, though, the songs are catchy and full of
heart, much like the movie. The other element being London itself, the
sights and the not so nice parts of the city actually give a real feel,
either though bleak. 

What's so magical about this story is that it has come to this, and
that it's a true story of hope, companionship and cosmic justice. It's
heartfelt, touching and feel good; Perfectly paced, enchanting and
enjoyable. Not just a movie for cat fans. 

Running Time: 9 The Cast: 8 Performance: 9 Direction: 9 Story: 9
Script: 8 Creativity: 9 Soundtrack: 8 Job Description: 10 The Extra
Bonus Points: 10 for Bob, and his and James' incredible story. Would I
buy the Bluray?: Yes.

89% 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film was one of the most heartwarming films I have watched in a
long while. Although the cat is the main focus of the film, it is more
than just about a cat. This film also makes you consider the homeless
community in London and how the drug culture on the streets is not
something to be ignored. It also aids a good understanding of heroine
on the streets, and the recovery process in becoming clean. This film
allows a better understanding of how just because someone is homeless,
it doesn't mean they are hopeless; sometimes all they need is help,
guidance, and a friend along the way, human or animal. The film also
made me reflect on how we are so affected by animals and how having
animals in our society helps us come together and understand each other
better. Although some scenes made me angry, it also promotes awareness
of how the homeless are shamed and how humans in general behave around
the less fortunate.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen a lot of bad reviews for this film and honestly they're
totally undeserved.

It's been criticised for not being gritty enough, being "featherweight"
and lacking in conflict. To me this just speaks to a deeply pretentious
need to be shocked - a film about someone who's suffered doesn't have
to show every hardship in gory detail. Yes, there's a place for
visceral, gruelling, Trainspotting-esque masterpieces that hit home the
sheer horror and hopelessness of homelessness and drug addiction in the
UK, but that's not the only kind of film that's allowed to exist.

This film isn't aimed at film critics looking for a cinematic thrill,
it's aimed at a (dun dun duuuun) mainstream audience, and it has a very
different objective. You aren't supposed to leave feeling like you've
been there, you're supposed to leave feeling like there's hope. It
makes you want to (and feel like you can) help. That's the kind of film
that encourages people to donate, volunteer, generally do good. That's
a worthwhile thing.

The strength of the film is its moments of kindness. Many claim that
the film doesn't "hit home" because the sad bits weren't sad enough and
the scary bits weren't scary enough. It hit home for me. It had me
holding back tears on multiple occasions, but it did so when it was
happy. The bit where the woman who chatted to James and Bob early on
gives them some tuna and a knitted cat scarf, the bit where Betty gives
James one of her brother's paintings (something irreplaceable that she
clearly treasures), James's Father's face (fantastic performance by
Anthony Head btw) when James tells him he's clean. This film is
brazenly kind, the overwhelming message is one that people are good.

Yes, it's cheesy at times, but it isn't patronising. James is someone
you empathise with, not sympathise. You don't feel sorry for him. I
think this film set out to do something very different than what
professional film critics look for. I think it succeeded in that, and I
think that's just as worthwhile as the lofty artistic ambitions of
grittier cinema.

Sorry for this review being more of a response to criticism than a
discussion of the film's merits, I just think this film deserves to be
stood up for.
<|_=00=_|>
I bet this gets terrible reviews from the critics, because it has no
ambitions except to tell (and embroider) a tale of real life (itself
embroidered a little, OK...) . Anyway I just got home from seeing it,
and it is no great work of art ... but it is a very enjoyable movie
based more or less on a true story. If I had a criticism it would say
cut the mouse (totally irrelevant to the film, but then I'm not a cat).
If I wanted to heap praises I would say that Luke Treadaway does the
main human role fantastically, Bob is pretty impeccable except for the
dubbing, and Rute Gedmintas is incredibly lovely as the (fictitious?)
love interest. If only Luke & Ruta could have ridden off into the
Islington sunset together .... they seemed made for each other.
<|_=00=_|>
This film connects you with the realities of street life and addiction,
but without the excessive angst, despair and high melodrama which is
typical of the genre. Because of this the storytelling feels very
realistic, very honest. Obviously what distinguishes this story is Bob
himself - I'm not a cat fanatic but it is obvious that Bob is a very
unique personality. Yet in keeping with the low key feel of the film,
they do not overly anthropomorphize Bob himself - he is a cat who has
adopted a human, plain and simple.

This film deserves a wider distribution - it is unrated but I would
suggest pg13. There is much more to this film that Bob the cat, but you
should see the film and reach you own conclusions. If nothing else it
may help you think differently, more sympathetically, about street
people and street cats.
<|_=00=_|>
This film offers almost exactly what you would expect it to and there's
nothing wrong with that. We've seen better movies about the trials of
homelessness, the tortures involved in getting clean from heroin,
especially the latter when it's worth remembering this is a 12A
certificate and so the horrors experienced by the main character can't
be quite as lurid, nightmarish and unsettling as those depicted in
TRAINSPOTTING. 

Otherwise, this adaptation of James Bowen's autobiography, his account
of how he was saved by the unlikely companionship of Bob, is pretty
likable stuff. Luke Treadaway's performance is perfectly fine; his
depiction of a drug user who's lost everything and is living rough
comes across as credible enough. If there's a sense of fantasy about
the effect Bob has on his fortunes - Londoners react to Bob as though
they've never seen a cat before - then you just have to go with it to
an extent. The film makes it clear that Bob personifies James's
salvation, and it was a lovely detail to discover one of the feline
actors playing the cat was none other than Bob himself. 

Anthony Head doesn't need to do much to play James's estranged father,
but he handles the emotional turmoil hidden beneath the character's
austere exterior really well. Joanne Froggatt and THE STRAIN's Ruta
Gedmintas are memorable as James's doctor and distant love interest
respectively. The latter is a bit too obviously 'hippy chick' but she
just about gets away with it, and I respected that the romantic
undertones of her story line climaxed in a bittersweet, realistic way. 

For me, this is up there with EDDIE THE EAGLE as a title that won't win
any awards and will never slay the box office, but it made me feel
better for having seen it. I'm looking forward to reading Bowen's book
now. And I once knew a cat called Bob - a more affectionate and
avuncular friend I don't think I've ever had.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst I'm not usually drawn to writing reviews I'd just like to add
that I thoroughly enjoyed this along with my young teenage children and
partner, yes we all love cats which possibly helped but really, the
acting was very good, the characters were believable and engaging, the
story had our attention and whilst sadly the cinema wasn't exactly what
you'd call full, those present loved it also. I've since read that the
script lacked 'good grammar' and was too simplistic, whilst I may not
have been Cambridge educated I thought that it was in keeping with the
subject and none of our party felt it lacked anything, quite the
opposite in fact. A movie which 'touched' us all and I'll be
recommending this to friends and family. The best film since Eddie The
eagle!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have read the books and was looking forward to the film. I wasn't
disappointed. The film is very true to the books and shows James's dire
situation with care and no punches pulled. It doesn't skirt around
James's turbulent life of drugs but shows it in a very humane way. 

I loved the camera work, we get to see life from Bobs point of view on
many occasions. This film gives hope to many people and shows that the
love of an animal can pull a person out of the brink of despair. 

A plus for me is there are no F words which I feel ruin a film.

Luke did a brilliant job of portraying James. And of course Bob is just
a star! it was nice to see James make a small guest appearance himself.
I can't wait to add it to my DVD collection!
<|_=00=_|>
Enjoyed the film and thought it was faithful to the book which made me
view street people differently. It never was going to be a big budget
blockbuster type movie and the way it was filmed suited the story.
Having seen quite a few buskers around Covent Garden the scenes shot
there looked authentic. All the relevant topics were covered and the
shooting was well done. I don't think it could have been done much
differently without making the film overlong. Being a cat owner may
make be biased but the film does justice to the story and internet
interest shown in the two main characters. We left the cinema having
felt that the admission money was well spent - not always the case with
some over hyped productions.
