
I don't understand people that complain about this movie. 

There is zero to complain about in this movie. You got to wonder if the
low reviews are government paid employees or just Oliver Stone haters.

I couldn't keep my eyes off the screen. I was mesmerized from the
beginning of the film until the end. I honestly had no idea it ran two
hours and 20 minutes. A movie is never too long if you don't look at
your phone and check the time. Myself, nor did anyone in the theater
once look down at their phone. The movie had great cinematography,
excellent pacing, strong emotional dialogue, and solid
character/relationship arcs. You can't ask for much more of a drama
based on a true story. Excellent job Oliver. Welcome back! 

The truth is people don't want to hear it. If it doesn't directly
affect their cozy iPhone streaming lives, than they don't want to hear
about it. They don't want to hear that they are wage slaves. They don't
want to hear that there is no such thing as privacy in this country.
They don't want to hear that the government isn't a democracy. People
don't want to hear that the American government isn't a government at
all, and that it's been replaced by a multi-national fortunate 100
corporate conglomeration funded by the international banking cartel.
People don't want to know the truth.

I'd venture a guess that most of the people that rated this movie
poorly didn't even see the movie. These are the same people that can't
handle the truth. Open your eyes people. Don't be another corporate
wage slave.
<|_=00=_|>
Very well made movie, very well acted, and directed. 

Going in I was worried that the movie would turn into an action
thriller or a love story that would cloud what really happened.

I was pleasantly surprised to find a step by step account of real
events with a deep look at what goes on behind the scenes at the
various spy agencies.

Personally I would have liked a little more time spent on the
politicians (and other behind the scenes players) and how they acted
before and after the Snowden revelations, but maybe that's a topic for
another movie

I would recommend this movie to anyone interested in modern history and
geopolitics
<|_=00=_|>
The great director who's not afraid to tackle matters of war,
conspiracy and controversial American political issues, has returned.
Only this time, Oliver Stone has upgraded his latest film's look and
tone to make it seem more digitally advanced, which is fine because it
fits the story of Edward Snowden and we're living in this day and age
where every millennial's favorite series happens to be "Mr. Robot."
SNOWDEN, as you've guessed it, is a thriller about the whistleblower
and former intelligence contractor, Edward Snowden, played in this film
by the talented Joseph Gordon-Levitt. "Divergent" star, Shailene
Woodley plays his girlfriend, Lindsay Mills, who stays by his side
through his ordeals of working for the government due to his patriotism
while at the same time feeling conflicted about how the government runs
its methods in the name of national security. This film dramatizes the
events that led Snowden to becoming one of the most wanted men in the
world.

First, I have to give praises to Joseph Gordon-Levitt who I think went
above and beyond in not only capturing Edward Snowden's mannerism and
the way he speaks but my goodness, Gordon-Levitt's performance in this
film is so calculating and precise, you can see his brains constantly
work itself out, just by looking at him. And Shailene Woodley gives her
most mature performance yet, because this film is more than just about
the whole surveillance controversy, it's also about how that negatively
affects Snowden & Mills relationship and I think it's fairly handled,
both aspects don't take away or diminish each other's importance in the
process.

When it comes to the film's dramatizing the U.S. and British global
surveillance program, I'm sure there'll be questions as to how
authentic the portrayal is, as far as the headquarters are concerned,
for example, some may see it as a bit too much like a Bond villain's
secret lair, but you'll be entertained by some of the visual effects
that the film applies to showcase hacking and how one person can
connect to another person and to another person and what's most
fascinating about it is that there's a programmer watching the whole
thing the entire time.

So SNOWDEN is essentially part conspiracy thriller, part relationship
drama, and to a certain extent, part heist. Overall, I think it's a
riveting film that keeps you engaged and more importantly gets you
thinking, which I think is the goal of Oliver Stone's movies. Does the
film lean one way in that it paints Edward Snowden as a hero? I think
so, but not in a way that intentionally judges those who at the end
still think of him as a traitor. SNOWDEN might cause audiences to
become more paranoid or it might cause audiences to start supporting
any effort to hold our government accountable. The jury's still out.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
Arguing about gender identity and racial issues completely misses the
substance, the real issues of what happens when we let government
expand it's powers under the pretext of terrorism, after a tragedy that
shut down all thinking. Powered by genuine fear of terrorists created
as a result of imperialistic and abusive foreign policy, the American
public has ignored waste of tens of billions of tax-dollars that
could've been spent on health care, infrastructure and education.
Developed in secrecy, perfected on 'worthless' Muslims in Middle-East,
everything from surveillance blimps to state-sponsored malware is now
rapidly being deployed in homeland: US is being torn apart not just by
racial issues, but by the ever increasing wealth gap, the scale of
which according to a recent study, most American haven't even got a
clear understanding of.

Privatized industry funded with tax-payer money without the *informed*
consent of citizens has turned into legal theft. Snowden was part of
that system, but in a unique way; He worked in a position where he saw
far beyond the standard compartmentalization. He wasn't Alice
developing metadata collection program. He wasn't Bob creating target
automation. He wasn't Charlie building drones. He wasn't David
confirming kills. He was Edward who saw NSA's SKYNET program, a real
tool used to automate drone murders with surveillance metadata.

Saying it took guts to blow whistle on corruption within the world's
largest intelligence establishment is a complete understatement.

While some people like Silas Davis here seem to think no large
terrorist attacks must mean mass surveillance, works, The Intercept has
done extensive reporting on how not only this is false, but that FBI
has had to provide resources on troubled people just to get them
arrested.

Privacy is a universal human right, but having to hand it away for the
sake of security reduces it to a a mere privilege. What makes it even
more ridiculous is the transparency in society has completely reversed
it's state: Citizens are monitored to the point where gerrymandering
strips their only power -- their vote. Meanwhile government the power
of which is derived from the governed has secret court, secret laws and
secret interpretations of these laws. In such situation "I have nothing
to hide" is either badly placed trust or a coping mechanism.

The revelations by Snowden were made possible by decades long effort by
the cypherpunk community, that has developed encryption tools from
Tor-network to PGP-emails to OTR-instant messaging that Poitras,
Greenwald and Snowden actually used to empower themselves during 2013.
Citizenfour documentary honored these projects during credits.

Information security allowed by the law, and achieved with
sophisticated technology is extremely important. Terrorism isn't the
number one threat, cyber attacks are. The Snowden documents have
revealed how NSA has injected back doors into hardware, bribed
companies like RSA to use back doored random number generators, and
weakened industry standards in an attempt to monitor everything. In
reality they've made much easier for all cyber terrorists and foreign
governments to hack vital systems that belong to government and
companies, and that maintain the critical infrastructure.

How well the movie grasps over all this, we'll see soon. The 10 goes
just for increasing the awareness. Meanwhile, I suggest the
conversation be steered towards the real issues instead of feeding
trolls.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to save the 10/10 for those that deserve it and this one does. 

I saw this at the opening in Toronto and came into it with a critical
eye, having seen Citizen Four and having a good knowledge of the events
that unfolded throughout the story recounted in this film.

Understandably, some weren't sure if all the shocking events in the
film actually happened in the manner they were portrayed, so it's
possible the public at large will never actually know just how accurate
and important this film is. It all happened. And more. A lot of content
didn't make it into the film but Stone's editing choices were sound.

Oliver Stone's faithfulness to the facts is astounding. Nothing was
distorted or sacrificed for entertainment value. For a filmmaker to
show this constraint is rare because it puts at risk the approval of a
large portion of the audience. And it shows his true intent, even if
Stone claims he was not trying to inspire activism.

Snowden Portrayal: Excellent acting, understated; that's Snowden.

Greenwald Portrayal: Brilliant acting, and sometimes I got the eerie
feeling I was actually watching Greenwald, though the role was perhaps
a little too emotional at times when the real Greenwald would have kept
his composure. 

On Laura Poitras actually being in the film: It was justice that Stone
actually gave her character a role in the film, since Laura herself
never does, and she deserves credit for what she has done. She risked
her life many times over to bring us the facts in Citizen Four.

Oliver Stone served his country in making this film and by doing
justice to the bravery of Snowden. Perhaps the world will be more
inclined to care about what is taking place right in front of us once
this film is available to all.
<|_=00=_|>
By far the biggest story of U.S. government malfeasance was uncovered
in 2013, when a young man named Edward Snowden leaked out to the media
and the world at large that his employers at the National Security
Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency, besides spying on other
countries, and terrorist organizations around the world, were also
spying on all the electronic communications of everybody in the United
States itself. These revelations made him a man without a country, and
a fugitive charged under the Espionage Act of 1917 for allegedly
revealing classified information that compromised the security and the
lives of U.S. surveillance agents all over the world. It also made him
perhaps the most dangerous whistleblower of government overreach in
history, or at least since Daniel Ellsberg. And unsurprisingly, it was
Oliver Stone, the director best known for his critiques of American
political behavior with PLATOON, BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, JFK, and
NIXON, who stepped into the breach of this, maybe the most important
political story of our time, with SNOWDEN.

Based on Luke Harding's book "The Snowden Files" and Anatoly
Kucherena's book "Time Of The Octopus", SNOWDEN stars Joseph
Gordon-Leavitt as a young man who, both as an intellectual conservative
and a patriot, worked his way up into the highest circles of the U.S.
intelligence community during the first decade of the 21st century and
the War On Terror, which involved less about stopping terrorism with
military force but with the force of electronics and surveillance. This
seems all good and fine to him, and he develops further programs to
assist the intelligence communityuntil, as he looks up the data, twice
as many communications have been monitored from within the U.S. itself
as have been from even our most feared legitimate adversary, Russia.
Much of the story is told in flashbacks and flash-forwards, as
Gordon-Leavitt relates his story to documentary filmmaker Laura Poitros
(Melissa Leo), journalist Glenn Greenwald (Zachary Quinto), and
journalist Ewan MacAskill (Tom Wilkinson) in a hotel in Hong Kong
(later detailed by the real-life Laura Poitros in her Oscar-winning
2014 documentary CITIZENFOUR). We see how his life, especially with his
girlfriend (Shailene Woodley) and his problems with epilepsy, comes
unwound, and how he must go on the run after his revelations are
published in the British newspaper The Guardian, which Greenwald and
MacAskill worked for. He winds up at Moscow International Airport just
a few days after his story hits the Internet in June 2013, and in
exile, a fugitive from what passes for American justice in the 21st
century.

Rather surprisingly, given his penchant for doing extremely
controversial movies in his career, Stone was initially fairly
reluctant to touch the Edward Snowden story in any way, shape, or form.
But Kucherena (Snowden's real-life attorney in Russia) and Greenwald
themselves convinced that it would be good for him to detail the story.
Stone then agreed to do it, with Fitzgerald assisting him in the
writing of the screenplay, and the result is one of the great films of
2016. Gordon-Leavitt is a near dead-ringer for the real-life Edward
Snowden, who is seen at the end of the film detailing why he did what
he did and why coming back to America would not result in his getting a
fair trial. Although Stone had been well-known for doing films with
quick-edged MTV-inspired montage sequences, including his notorious
1994 film NATURAL BORN KILLERS, he avoids doing much of that in
SNOWDEN, instead concentrating on the inner workings of Snowden's work,
and how much harm he may have been creating in the name of National
Security, as opposed to merely keeping us "safe" from any more
9/11-type terrorism.

The subject matter that is broached by Stone in SNOWDEN, even with a
relatively limited amount of violence and nudity (compared to other
films of Stone's), is not easy to watch; nor is it necessarily easy to
grasp in a lot of ways how the American people themselves, in the panic
that followed September 11, 2001, basically acquiesced and allowed such
mass surveillance to take place. Given the revelations in the early
1970s about Ellsberg's Pentagon Papers scandal, and those involving the
FBI's Counterintelligence Program against anti-war protesters and civil
rights activists, one might have thought that the people would have
learned. But speaking truth against government power is a dangerous
thing to do, and at the same time the right one; and SNOWDEN, its
subject, and its maker, show it better than perhaps anyone else in
Hollywood could ever do.
<|_=00=_|>
In June, 2013, it came out that the National Security Agency had a
massive espionage network in place. Within a few days, the source of
the information revealed himself. Edward Snowden was a computer
professional who had been working first for the CIA, and then switched
to the NSA. Before long, his conscience started bothering him, and so
he downloaded evidence of the espionage network, flew to Hong Kong, and
revealed it to journalists Glenn Greenwald and Ewen MacAskill, while
director Laura Poitras filmed the interview. Without a doubt it was the
biggest story of 2013.

This story got told in Poitras's Oscar-winning documentary
"Citizenfour". Oliver Stone's "Snowden" tells the story, but also looks
at the years leading up to Snowden's employment by the NSA: his
military service, his stationing in Geneva, and then Japan, and finally
his employment with the NSA outlet in Hawaii.

I don't know if I would go so far as to call this a masterpiece, but
what's mind-blowing is the sheer scope of not just the espionage
network, but everything else that it comprised. Without a doubt, the
most important scene is the worldwide revelation of Snowden's leaks,
and Snowden's subsequent flight to Russia, where he remains to this
day.

Joseph Gordon-Levitt does a fine job as Snowden, as do Shailene Woodley
as his lover Lindsay Mills. The rest of the cast includes Zachary
Quinto (Spock in the "Star Trek" reboot) as Greenwald, Melissa Leo
(Alice in "The Fighter") as Poitras, and an assortment of other people,
including some surprise cast members.

All in all, I recommend the movie. Even though the viewer knows the
plot, it's still a suspenseful story.
<|_=00=_|>
I know he won best picture for platoon - which also was a serious
endeavour - but its behind us. 

Vietnam is over, Vietnam is done. 

Snowden lives. Actually, Snowden escaped and survived. 

He went to what might be the only place people can be protected from US
government agencies. I would like to think all whistle blowers would
have to do is cross into Canada but then Snowden would know. He was
smart - he is smart. 

I remember Bambi Bembenek. She blew a whistle too and made it to
Canada. Poor thing.

This is a must see for all except those that don't care their
protection set forth by the founders of the United States can be taken
away by bullies, perhaps corrupted by limitless power of a new
industrialized intelligence complex. 

Masterful work by Oliver Stone. 

Thanks for bringing it to Tiff. 

Oliver, please ask for a theatre more appropriate for Q&A for Snowden
2.0
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie as part of a small audience. Years ago, when the story
was on the nightly news, Our USA news media had distorted the story so
badly that I thought that Snowden was a spy. Now, I doubt that he was.
There was a question asked of President Obama that made it clear for
me. "Do you now consider Snowden to be a spy or a whistle blower?" I
think this is a very Good movie. The small audience applauded at the
end. It seems to be pretty clear that Snowden blew the whistle on "Big
Brother". You should go to see this movie. Take some friends with you.
There is very good dramatic acting. Good directing even though Oliver
Stone does make it very dark. Snowden wanted to stop government spying
on anyone. He would be a much better option for President than either
of our current choices. I admit to being an Oliver Stone fan. His
movies go into details that our news media ignores. Maybe we should try
to get Snowden to come back so we can hear his version of what actually
happened.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a great Oliver stone movie, seems right up his alley to do a film
About a conspiracy and about questioning the government.

It's weird when people do movies about such recent events but hey
that's how fast the media works these days.

It's a great ensemble cast as Stone tells the story of Edward Snowden
who discovered that the government was spying on us weather we did
anything wrong or not and decides to let us all know.

Joseph Gordon-Levitt plays Snowden as a very likable guy, even if he
was a Bush supporter, but most importantly he was a dude who loves his
country and felt what they were doing to its citizens was wrong.

As Snowden, Levitt had the biggest chunk of screen time in a film
filled with well know actors taking small, but important roles, like
Zachary Quinto who played the guardian journalist chosen to tell
Snowden's story and Nicolas Cage who's character acted like a mentor
for Snowden's at the CIA.

Stone's fairness to the whole situation is painting a lovely portrait
of the whistle blower himself
