
I've been an avid Star Wars fan since 1977. I've seen all the live
action films multiple times and even sat through the Holiday Special
and the Ewok spin-offs. I was looking forward to Rogue One and booked
tickets well in advance for the first show of the first day.

I was surprised to find the cinema mostly deserted - especially after
the full houses I experienced during the first couple of weeks of The
Force Awakens' run. 

Having watched all the trailers, TV spots and clips, I had a good idea
what to expect and, as the film began, those expectations were
justified. This was a more 'grown-up' Star Wars: darker, more violent
and morally ambiguous. I was loving it and thinking it might well turn
out to be my new favourite Star Wars film.

But... it began to feel very rushed. The action sequences and special
effects were superb and there was no doubt this was a film set in the
Star Wars universe but characters were being introduced and killed-off
at such a pace it was hard to keep up and even harder to care about
them. We were whizzed at breakneck pace from planet to planet (complete
with some slightly jarring captions to tell us where we were) and then
it suddenly began to sag. 

As the hastily assembled Rebel crew went on their mission to find Galen
I began to lose interest and even found myself nodding off. It was all
a bit boring.

The pace soon picked up and I got back into it but I was disappointed
with Vader's first appearance and completely distracted by the CGI
Tarkin. Vader seemed too small physically, the voice sounded off and
the dialogue (especially the final quip) seemed out of character.
Resurrecting Peter Cushing in digital form was a brave move but the
technology is still not quite there and I began to feel more detached
from the plot and characters as I analysed the strangeness of his
appearance. 

As the film moved to its final act, I was wowed by the visuals but, by
now, I had no real interest in the characters and their deaths just
came and went with no emotional impact. In fact, my mind was wandering
as I noticed more and more how much of the previously released footage
wasn't in the final cut of the film - including some of the most
spectacular shots such as the TIE fighter looming in front of Jyn on
the gantry and the beautiful shot of Krennic striding towards the shore
surrounded by the floating bodies of his troops. Rogue One had lost me
and was beginning to disappoint.

As Vader made his final appearance I was, at last, feeling some
excitement. It was a great scene but... that final shot of CGI Leia was
a real 'What? Why? No!' moment. Terrible. Less in this case would
definitely have been more.

As the film ended, there was no applause and everybody got up and left
immediately, leaving me to watch the credits alone feeling more than a
little underwhelmed. It is not a bad film. The design and special
effects (CGI human faces not withstanding) are superb. The cast are
interesting and do a good job with very limited characterisation. But
Rogue One ultimately failed to involve me emotionally in the story or
characters and, in the end, it kind of felt like watching somebody else
play a beautiful video game.
<|_=00=_|>
With all the rumours flying about that Disney had interfered with the
creative process on this one, just as when Alderaan blew up - I feared
the worse. Fortunately my fears were unfounded. 

Rogue one is as engrossing as it is seamless and while its not perfect
it had everything required to make a great movie. I guess everyone has
different expectations of Star Wars. The plot which I will only briefly
describe involves a group of rebels attempting to secure the plans to
the Death Star, the designer of which, having a morale conscience,
built the deliberate flaw (The exhaust port which Stewie Darth Vader
asked about in Family Guy) so that it could be easily destroyed as long
as the information fell into the right hands. This information is
contained in an archive and it falls to the daughter of the designer,
Jyn Erso, to not only restore her fathers name but get the designs to
the rebels who are just itching to get on with events in Episode Four
(New Hope) and blow the thing up.

So does it hold up? Well, yes, not only does it hold up I would put
this film on par with Empire and also Episode IV and this coming from
someone who saw the first film on the silver screen in 1977. Gareth
Edwards is a director who understands all the combined elements that
make a Star Wars Film great. First a good script with the right mix of
drama, action, pathos and humour and above all a story that actually
makes sense, secondly good well written, rounded, characters that are
interesting, diverse and unique, third great visuals - there's so many
memorable shots in this film and so many of them are the shots you
always wanted to see, fourth well directed action that looks and feels
real, that is tense and that you can follow, fifth - tension, this film
has it in spades, Sixth nods and references to the original trilogy -
they come in abundance, some are comedic, some pure nostalgia while
others are entirely appropriate and work so well within the story.
Seventh - real sets, please give me a London Underground station
redressed over bland CGI sterile sets any day of the week. Here the
technology enhances the story and the tension and at no time tries to
substitute for either. It is the perfect mix of live action & CG
effects. I have not seen them so well combined since Lord of the Rings. 

This is a man who clearly understands his craft of what makes for a
great film. I was highly critical of the prequel movies, which really
are a masterclass in how not to make a film, here the total opposite is
true. I am not a die hard Star Wars fan in any sense and was fully
prepared to be very critical of this film, but find it hard to find
fault in it anywhere. The supporting cast were especially good here,
everyone from Riz Ahmed to Forest Whitaker giving it their all. The new
villain of the piece is brilliantly played by Ben Mendelson (Hard to
believe this is the kid from The Big Steal!) Donnie Yen's character was
beautifully written, I could have watched another movie just about him
alone. The cast feels truly international, as any universe should. Many
British actors really make their mark in smaller roles including Duncan
Pow & Ben Daniels as Rebel Foot Solider and General Pilot respectively
while the likes of Sharon Duncan-Brewster & Jonathon Aris as Rebel
Senators argue the merits of the attack in a tense conference debate -
gone are the boring council meetings of the prequels. Strong drama is
the key ingredient of the day. Here the Rebellion is shown as a far
more tangible real faction, not everyone agrees with each other, things
get messy and sometimes the wrong people are killed - the film even
begs to ask the question, how better really are they than the Empire???
- we know of course, but its great to see such shades rather than just
plain good and bad guys.

The film contains so many pure Star Wars moments. I have no doubt the
Droid (Voiced with skill by Alan Tudky) will become a favourite of many
and new aliens and ship designs are not thin on the ground.

Chiefly in the acting credits, plaudits must go to Felicity Jones who
plays Jyn with real conviction while Diego Luna avoids a Han Solo
portrayal of Cassian, her would be ally and sometimes adversary. The
appearances of Vader and Tarkin (Incredible) are entirely warranted and
in proportion with the rest of the film.

One or two of the subplot characters are a little underwritten (perhaps
deleted scenes and a longer cut will reveal them to be less so) but
that really is nit picking, I had no issue with this at all. To juggle
so many major and minor characters in a single narrative in a tight
running time, for any director is no mean feat and Edwards manages it
extremely well. 

I have no doubt Edwards had to steer an entire army of Executives in
order to deliver the film he wanted. Perhaps one day someone will make
a film about that? I have no doubt it would make for quite a story -
Whatever were his obstacles, he clearly overcame them. He has done
himself and every Star Wars fan proud. Pure class.
<|_=00=_|>
OK so I had A lot to say about "The Force Awakens" and mostly I pointed
out all the plot holes that I could drive a semi trailer through. But
after seeing Rogue One I appreciate TFA a lot more because at least it
was entertaining and engaging.

Rogue One is boring. Boring, boring, boring, boring and boring. I can
appreciate where it sits within the timeline and was actually
interested in how to the Death Star plans got into R2D2. However the
story is so ludicrously unimaginative that I wish I could unlearn the
official story and go back to making up something myself.

The fundamental problem is that the writers forgot this was a Star Wars
movie until about 75% of the way in and then went "Oh crap there's
supposed to be space battles in this thing." And here begins the rant:
spoilers ahead...

Let's start with the main character Jyn. Firstly, I said this in my
review of "Guardians of the Galaxy" and I will say it here, killing a
main characters parents when they are a small child is not enough to
make me give a crap about what happens to them. So she was orphaned
when her mother was killed and her father chose to go back to the
Empire.. just like millions of other children effected by the war.
Secondly this character is so unimpressive and has basically no skills
that are helpful to the Rebellion other than the fact that she's the
daughter of the genius scientist behind the Death Star. Sure she can
fire a phaser but that's pretty much as helpful as she gets. Why a
group of committed Rebellion fighters would follow this girl into
battle confounds me.

Cassian the rebel fighter assigned to help Jyn is just as unimpressive.
We're supposed to feel for him because he lost his family and has been
forced to kill people for the Rebellion and feels bad about it but in
the end you feel nothing.

K-2SO - ah the generic and expected robot comedy relief that brings a
few chuckles but nothing much else (which is no reflection on Alan
Tudyk who I love but they didn't give him much to work with) And whilst
it was nice to see Darth Vader back in all his glory (and in the voice
of James Earl Jones) his cameo was blink-and-you'd-miss-it and really
doesn't add to the story in any way.

And then basically all the other characters were so unimpressive that I
don't remember any of them and therefore have nothing to say about
them.

The 2 stars I've given to this review are purely for the CGI in the
final 45 mins of this movie which is pretty bloody spectacular. But
once it got to that point I'd stopped caring a while ago. The exception
being the CGI young Princess Leia which was just CREEPY.

So to summarise: Boring and unimaginative shouldn't have been made in
the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie today and this was the first Star Wars film that I
wanted to walk out on.

Here are my grips with the movie

1. NO OPENING CRAWL - It seems like the people who made this movie did
not consider consistency to be important in the Star Wars franchise.
This is the first movie in the franchise to not have an opening crawl
and not having consistency really shows in the quality of the movie.

2. BAD PACING and TRANSITION - In the beginning of the movie you have
the camera jump from random planets without any real explanation as to
what is going on and this type of camera work goes on for the entire
movie. It just feels like a bunch of random shots put together.

3. NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT - You feel absolutely no emotion or bond
towards any of the characters. All of them feel replaceable and there
is no memorable chemistry between the characters in any way. I have no
idea why Forrest Whittaker was even in the film because he serves no
purpose. His character finds the main lead and then it entirely skips
any sort of character development that could've happened between the
two. I don't even remember the characters names because most of them
were so unmemorable

4. THE ROBOT - As I said before consistency did not seem to be
important to the makers of this movie. The reprogrammed imperial robot
seemed TOO human. He moved too much like a human and talked too much
like a human, which did not happen in any of the other star wars
movies. The most human like droid was C-3p0 but even he did not MOVE
like a human.

5. VADER - Something about this Vader seemed to be off. I can't point
my finger as to what it is but his style of talking and also his suit
seems to be different because I didn't see a chain around his neck.
Also his lightsabre fighting style seemed too agile and more like the
prequel rather than a hard hitting slow style like in the original
trilogy. As I said before, consistency didn't seem important to the
filmmakers and little things like this pulled me out of the movie.

6. Obvious SJW Agenda - I am Korean-American. When I watch a Star Wars
film, I just want a good Star Wars film. I don't need a Star Wars
filmed disguised with a SJW Agenda. Is it a coincidence that the Rebels
has a woman, an arab, two Asian guys, a hispanic etc. and the Empire is
all white? Why can't I just have a good Star Wars film?

I will say this. The only good part of the movie was at the end when
the Death Star fires at the planet because that is the only time I
actually felt emotion for the characters and saw a little bit of
character development.

Otherwise, this was a terrible movie. You will only watch it just
because it is Star Wars.
<|_=00=_|>
Rogue One - another worthless Hollywood cash-in that runs at snails
pace.

Die hard fans will obviously find enjoyment in this film - entering the
star wars universe again, the stunning visuals, and soundtrack... But
look closely at the film itself and there is not a lot on offer.

It starts out with this awfully paced run of throwaway scenes to
showcase the main characters in the story - they go far to quick to
feel any emotional connection with them later on in the film.

Two large chunks of the film are worthless dialog (that sound like
video game instructions) and this 'epic' beach siege at the end that
clearly looks like the Atlantis hotel resort in Dubai. Once you see it
in your head - you can't take what is going on seriously. 

The cast are also not well put together, the main character Jyn Erso is
unlikable - half her lines are rushed and predictable and her acting
made me cringe. On the other hand the characters - Chirrut Îmwe (blind
fighter), Saw Gerrera (dying extremist) and Orson Krennic (Empire
deathstar leader) offer some great nuggets of depth but aren't in it
enough to justify their full potential.

SPOILERS!!: I did enjoy however the stunning cgi restoration of Peter
Cushing as Grand Moff Tarkin, but when a young cgi of Princess Leia
appeared at the end of the film acting as the lead into 'A New Hope' -
felt cheap and reinstated the fact that this was a cash-in film and i
was stupid enough to fall for it and go see it!!

Rant over! x
<|_=00=_|>
Review Context: I am a genuine Star Wars Fan. My ranking: 'Empire
Strikes Back' 1st. 'A New Hope' 2nd, 'Return of the Jedi' 3rd. All the
other Star Wars movies, including this one, right off the radar. 

This one, Rogue One?: 

Acting = 0 out of ten. 0.5 for the computer generated characters. 

Felicity Jones = minus 1000 out of ten. Why on earth did they put her
in it? Her acting is so bad she is simply unwatchable. 

Forest Whitaker must have caught something from the other actors,
because this was the worst I have seen him. What voice was that?
Breathing like Vader? What??

Where is any of the Star Wars magic? None of the star wars movies
outside of the original trilogy even touch the same soul, and spiritual
mysticism, magic and excitement. This felt like a waste of time. I
could have written a better story and script myself. This was so
disjointed, no continuity, I squirmed and shuffled in my seat in agony. 

One blind dude who can sort of use the Force? What a bore. His acting
was almost as bad as Felicity Jones'. "I am one with the force.. nuh,
nuh, nerrr" no you're not. 

I couldn't understand Diego Luna's dialogue, nor many of the other
actors. What was the point in the robot? Misfiring comedy was the final
nail in the coffin of this tripe.

"I have a bad feeling about this..".. again?! Really? How wincingly
weak can you make it? 

The dialogue between Darth Vader with Orson was inanely boring and
erratic from the first line, I switch off and wondered if I'd left the
heating on at home. They couldn't even get the electronic tone right.
The original trilogy had you on the edge of your seat with every line
Vader spoke. 

Ben Mendelsohn as Orson, was terribly mis-cast, his voice, like many of
the other characters was sharp and hysterical, with no conviction. 

What happened to the music?! No love put into it, no excitement
generated at ALL! Awful. Just keep the Star Wars theme until the end
credits?! Why bother? 

Action: the wobbly hand-held first person is way too old hat, and
doesn't work. Whose firing on who and... why? Non-consequential
blasting for the sake of it. 

The last battle at the end had some hope, then it just threw in some
Walkers, and some other things we might recognize, to help it sustain
some resemblance to 'star wars. Some climbing, falling in a futuristic
tunnel..

Then there was a sudden rush to tie in the ending with the start of 'A
New Hope', which culminated with Disney animated Princess Leah taking
the Death Star plans? She seemed so much more involved than to just pay
such weak homage to her & just at the end? Why do that? How irritating,
like the rest of the movie. Star Wars stupidly destroyed.
<|_=00=_|>
Boring, insubstantial, and horrible. Halfway through I was dying to
leave and the movie just couldn't end quick enough. Could have been
reduced to a 5 minute quickie episode and been about 1000 times better.
Watched it in IMax 3D, and I feel robbed. I'm not sure why there are so
many positive reviews, except a lot of people want Star Wars movies to
be good so badly that they make them good in their heads or something.
I'm a Huge Star Wars fan, and my disappointment runs deep on this one.

Another issue may be that people who don't like this film really don't
want to spend the time typing 10 lines about how horrible and boring it
is. The characters weren't likable or even memorable. I enjoyed more
the ghosts of Star Wars' past (Leia aside - she was so poorly done that
I can't bear to think about it) than I did with the new characters, but
even that was just replays of old tapes.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Star Wars for a majority of my life, and this was a
major let down. The story is mediocre at best, with clichés and useless
characters riddled about. The story is nothing more than a fickle teen
running around with her pals trying to get the plans for the Death
Star. It has a few bright moments with their reprogrammed droid, K-
2SO, being the only good character out of the whole movie. The action
scenes fall short, and are more inclined to have something explode
rather than show the tide of a battle drastically change within a
second. As for the Death Star, well, it honestly only needed to be used
once. But no, go ahead and destroy a key base which has all of your
plans, most of which most likely don't have any back ups. I'm sure the
Emperor won't mind losing key military schematics. Then the movie fails
to even get the menacing Lord Vader's look right. Episode 3 did it well
enough, you can do it too Disney. This movie was an eye opener, critics
had nothing but praise for this movie, yet all I see is a big step in
the wrong direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with the review that says Rogue One is the end of an era, but 
for another reason. Honestly, I have watched the original installments 
and liked them so I was very disappointed with The Force Awakens 
Episode Seven, but my disappointment here is for another reason. This 
is the first Star Wars movie with no Jedi, light sabers or any real 
force. I know the Asian dude keeps saying he has the force, but of 
course it is a wish on his part. He is not Jedi or padavan and the 
force does not surge within him. A Star Wars film without force, Jedi 
or light saber is not really Star Wars is it. Some might say that with 
what happened in Episode Seven maybe that is a good thing, but I prefer 
to think there is certain elements that are a must for Star Wars. Also, 
in case anyone didn't notice the film does not start with a rolling 
storyboard.

I guess Disney needs the money, but honestly we are the ones giving it 
to them.
<|_=00=_|>
A soul-less, seen a thousand times formulaic piece of crap especially
designed to sell toys and empty those pathetic man-child fanboys's
wallets. Everybody seems to agree nowadays that the force awakens was
at best a re-hash of a new hope, at worst a very boring and mediocre
marketing scheme. Remember when it got out a year ago and everyone was
super excited and enthusiast? Same thing's going to happen to these
2hrs of bore printed on celluloid : wait for the hype to disappear, be
honest with yourselves and acknowledge that this piece of crap film is
just another fanboy scam, especially designed to rob kidults of their
hard earned cash. Then watch the ratings drop to a more realistic 5,
tops. And -surprisingly-, this farce is presently rated above 8. In 6
months, no one will care. So please, childish people that can't read
and that don't watch movies that got out before 2k because they don't
have computer graphics in them, try to stay objective when rating a
film. Or better yet, spare us your "opinions", and don't even vote at
all. Thanks in advance.
