
When I sat through Unfriended, I kept asking myself whether modern
teenagers would really communicate this way. To those that don't know,
the movie in it's entirety is portrayed through a computer desktop; as
in all the characters are communicating through Skype, text messaging,
social media messaging or even random chat sites. My argument was that
teens would rather communicate face to face rather then link their
electronic devices together. But I underestimated how much our youth
loves technology and can adapt pretty fast to the new hip thing, and
therefore, ready to exploit it as much as possible. 

Teenagers may be the best candidates to become tomorrow's online
engineers, but when a smart writer comes to Facebook, we also attract a
couple of rotten viruses. I'm not talking about infections to ones
software or system, but those bad apples that only want to start a
fight or make someone else's life miserable by bullying them. This
cyber bullying epidemic is so much of a problem that the things said
about others or worse, videos posted about others, has led to mental
problems and even suicides. One case of cyber bullying gets their
revenge in the online set, Unfriended. 

The movies setting (a computer desktop) takes places on the screen of
Blaire, a high scholar who is chatting with her other friends,
boyfriend Mitch, alcoholic Adam, guy friend Ken, Jess, and Val. It is
the one-year anniversary of the death of a fellow high-scholar, Laura
Barnes who committed suicide over an embarrassing video that showed her
drunk along with the message "Kill Ur Self Laura". The set of kids
continue to talk about this, siding with the rest of the internet that
the actions against this poor girl were awful. Things get weird when
they notice that another person has joined their conversation.

The blank screen that is the sixth person chatting never shows their
face, cannot be hung up on, and sends messages demanding justice for
Laura. Then Laura's old Facebook account is re activated with messages
demanding that Blaire and the other kids spill their secrets. Blaire
simply assumes that one of the other kids may be pulling a sick prank,
but that theory is disproved when the ghost hacker starts to spill the
secrets for them. None of the kids are allowed to leave their
computers, as they must figure out a way to outwit the mysterious sixth
caller or answer to their sins.

As I've said, I've wanted more variety in the horror genre besides
constant found footage features. Though this is similar, Unfriended
managed to keep me on the edge of my seat. Not because of the scares I
was about to face, but for the secret that each teen had to confess to.
Unfriended clearly built up their characters and their history behind
the cyber bullying death in a smart way that it's never spoon-fed. The
revelation behind our characters is out of order and even with the
computer screen facing the audience, we have to pay close attention to
know what's going on.

You know your sitting in an enjoyable movie when the teenagers watching
Unfriended with you are loud during the trailer, but do not even peep a
whisper during the majority of the film. The people were screaming in
my theater, and though not everyone works, I did jump at a few of them.
Even the reveal of the hacker was a little weak. I won't spoil it, but
you'd wish it was more techno based then supernatural based. But the
scares weren't the point of the movie; it's a revenge thriller first
and foremost.

I'll give this eight dead online accounts out of ten. Perhaps
Unfriended will make you think twice before posting an embarrassing
photo of someone you know; it just may come back to haunt you!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie with a few other people who came in (mostly teenagers)
and none of us were scared. We were all miserable after seeing this.

1. This is not a horror film. This a movie that tries nothing new or
different in it's scare. I never once got scared during this. This is
just filled with jump-scares and that's it. That didn't leave any
impact on me and just became annoying after a while.

2. The story could've been done well but this movie gets so boring. We
have to see these characters Facebook messages, watch the computer
buffer and see their text messages. That drags out the movie with
needless padding. This wasn't scary it was long and loathsome. Plus why
don't they get offline? Yes I know the ghost told them they shouldn't
or else one of them dies but at the same time someone is going to die
anyways so what's the point? For a movie that was suppose to be
creative it's very uninteresting.

3. The characters are all hateful. I didn't once sympathize with anyone
in this movie. They all have to play 'Never Have I Ever' and one of the
characters biggest worries is that his buddy soled him out on the cops
for weed. That's his biggest worry? Two people were already dead at
this point so why did he say that? The issue he should be focusing on
is that one of you is going to die.

I am not going to waste my time explaining how bad this movie is and I
thought the ending was terrible but I won't go THAT far with spoilers.
Just watch Chronicle for a good found footage movie or It Follows.
<|_=00=_|>
Guys, here's a tip if you want to see this movie. Instead of shilling
out actual money, just get 4 people you know with Skype accounts, get
in a group call, and then just scream for 2 hours straight. You know
have the entire plot, line of events, and premise of Unfriended. Just
another painful to watch, stupid found footage horror that decided to
go from a normal camera to the most boring and ugly way of showing it,
Skype chat, because why would you want the camera to be enjoyable? Skip
the movie, just go watch a PewDiePie video, it's the exact same amount
of obnoxious screaming, but you can also watch a video game instead of
focusing on the screaming idiot.
<|_=00=_|>
I was under the impression this was a completely different film when my
husband and I decided to try to see it. However, it wasn't long before
my husband and I knew it was time to go home before the movie was over.
I'd say we left at the half-way point and don't regret it one bit. Our
only regret was wasting our money seeing this in the first place. Never
in my life have I left a film before it was fully over (aside from the
quick trip to the restroom.) Not only was this film predictable, it was
horrid. It started off like what I was expecting, then turned into an
ongoing Skype chat between the cast. I don't have anything against
horror stories or ghost stories, but this was neither. No suspense. No
build up. Just stupid. I have warned my friends to not see this film as
it's truly a waste of time, film, and money.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfriended is a "desktop horror" film (I have just invented that term;
if it becomes popular, please don't say it's my fault) in which the
screenplay is developed on the screen of a computer with multiple
applications employed as narrative tools in order to gradually build
the story, which we see from the user's perspective. Unfriended employs
authentic programmes and services as an integral part of the
screenplay. The use of Chrome, Google, GMail, Facebook, Skype, Spotify
and Chatroulette (among other ones) ends up bringing a moral lesson of
a double intention: first, it points out the insecurity of "living"
online, sacrificing privacy for convenience and amusement; and in
second place, it's a strident manifest against "cyber-bullying", which
has become one of the most serious social problems in 21st century (at
least that's what the TV news want to make us believe -"TV news? What
is that?", the new generations must be wondering). For the rest, I
found Unfriended a tedious and repetitive experience which doesn't
generate any horror, suspense and even less any concern for the
antipathetic characters, uniquely identified by the flaws in their
webcams and the volume with which they scream insipid dialogs. The
"technological ghost" concept had previously been exploited in Asian
films such as Pulse and One Missed Call, but Unfriended badly copies
the ideas implemented in those movies. Its raising of "cyber horror"
consists on an arbitrary hacking of applications and social networks,
which magically works in order to avoid screenwriter Nelson Greaves the
effort to solve a monotonous premise in a logical or interesting way.
And this film definitely feels monotonous. Unfriended is basically the
same as watching someone using the computer for 83 minutes. Sure, the
Skype video-calls add a variety of characters and locations, at the
same time they allow us fleeting glimpses of "terrifying" (translation:
confusing) deaths, but the drama is so insipid and predictable that it
would have been more entertaining to watch the main character playing a
video game while her friends discuss with each other who lied to whom,
or which one of them went to sleep with another one's girlfriend, or
who published offensive comments on Facebook. Well, even watching
someone playing Minesweeper would have been more interesting than that
parade of foolishness. On the other hand, my advanced age might have
avoided me from recognizing the realism of the digital interactions
which are increasingly more important in the social life of
contemporary young people. Maybe, the youngsters who live like the
characters, conversing and insulting with each other through Skype,
Facebook or Twitter might appreciate the details which were invisible
to an old man like me. Talking about details, something which truly
impressed me was the digital manufacture of Unfriended. The "screen on
real time" illusion is amazing; the behavior of menus and windows is
perfect; the cursor movements are fluid and very human. I even thought
that Unfriended was truly "shot" through carefully planned screenshots,
with some edition tricks to simplify the work; but the numerous credits
of animators and composers (not of music, but digital compounds) reveal
that everything is a perfect simulation. An excellent work of edition,
design and animation; pity that it's included into such a boring and
uninteresting film, which I can't recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
First I wish I could give this a lower rating 1 simply does not reflect
how bad this film is, I wish I could use another word as it is simply
not a movie or film. Ten minutes in and the only horror involved was my
realisation that the whole film was teenagers screaming as they skyped
each other. Laughable plot, girl gets s### faced at party and then
s#### herself which is filmed. Girl kills herself, girl haunts their
skype chat and each one dies, film over. 82 minutes of watching what at
times appears to be an instruction video that appear on the web of how
to use a piece of software, other times you are simply reading what
someone types, how this cost a million is a bigger mystery than who
shot JFK, it could have been shot over a day. There are films were I
have got up and walked out only to find I am watching at home and I am
standing in the garden in the cold pouring rain which is more
preferable than watching the rest of the movie. This film makes them
look like Citizen Kane, this by quite a distance is the worst I have
ever endured.
<|_=00=_|>
Following the suicide of a schoolmate, six skyping teens find their
regular session invaded by a malevolent troll intent on revealing their
dark secrets.

Well, it had to be done. I guess the editing of this is extremely
clever, and why not try it on a standard ghost story? Windows layered
on windows, real time typing and clicking, octobox web cammery,
buffering youtube vids, pixellating feeds. It's more pure than Open
Windows, but still it doesn't work.

First problem is it's just boring to watch information typed out on
screen, even when the deletes suggest the character of the typist.
Second is that information jumps around so much you worry you're
missing out. And the webcams are so tight on the characters that it
becomes really stuffy, creating a constant desire for the relief of
wide shots and physical interaction. At the same time I did miss well
lit, full screen close-ups.

The director failed to take a lot of short cuts - I really don't need
to see everything typed, to have characters say What? to a clear
question that then gets repeated, and a few other things. I guess
that's down to real-time realism, but hey - it's a ghost story.

The story is OK, similar to Smiley, but the characters do become really
irritating. The main girl and her boyfriend start out sympathetic, and
there is an overall decay as the secrets come out, but I wasn't really
interested, and of course we had to have macho guys shouting and
gurning in full "Game over, man!" melt-down. Some of it was down to the
limitation of the form - how are actors expected to react in a skype
scenario? - but please get some better dialogue.

Music very limited, couldn't be woven into the storytelling - so that
cuts out half the usual effect of a horror. The computer squeaks and
beeps didn't add anything. A couple of weak jump scares generated
purely through silence/NOISE.

The one sequence I did enjoy and which really suited the form and the
story was the chatroulette, so that's something to think about.

Overall, it's worth a watch if only to confirm the computer screen is
not the movie screen. So far.
<|_=00=_|>
Six high-school friends are chatting through Skype when they receive a
message from their former friend Laura Barns, who committed suicide
after watching a footage in Internet showing her completely wasted.
They believe it is a troll, but soon they learn that something
supernatural is happening. Further, their dirty little secrets are
exposed while they are mysteriously murdered one by one.

"Unfriended", a.k.a. "Cybernatural", is among the worst movies ever
made. The idea of a group of friends in front of monitors is only to
make an extremely annoying low-budget movie. The great mystery is how
there are viewers that write reviews promoting this terrible flick. My
vote is one.

Title (Brazil): "Desprotegido" ("Unprotected")
<|_=00=_|>
Social media for the most part, is a complete nightmare, so it's nice
to finally see it through the eyes of the horror genre.

I don't know about the rest of you, but whenever I log on to Facebook,
the last thing I have to worry about is a vengeful demon. No, I have to
deal with something far more sinister - countless number of meme posts,
depressed 'friends,' whom I don't even know, and parents of all ages
posting pictures of their ugly children. You know, children that only
parents find beautiful? Yes, those kind. 'Unfriended' gives a nice look
at many of the horrors of social media, and allows us, the viewers to
enjoy watching the consequences of these actions, even if only
fictional. Still somewhat enjoyable. In fact, the next time I log on to
Facebook, I think I'll remove all of you from my 'friends' list, so I
don't have to look at your meaningless, unfunny memes any longer. What
do you think about that? Thanks, Billie, for showing me the light.

So, anyway, now that I have moved over to Twitter - what about the
film? Not a terrible concept, but not something I'd watch again. I
found myself with a slight headache during the film, because this is
one of the reasons I avoid Skype and all voice chats - Idiots.
'Unfriended' puts you right into the call for about 80 minutes, and
while the demise of these people is enjoyable, getting to that point in
the film is a bit exhausting. The acting is fine, for what was asked
from the actors - just be as annoying and obnoxious as possible. You
know, be yourself.

Random Ramblings of a Madman: 'Unfriended' isn't a terrible film, and
while I do enjoy the concept of mocking social media, and the idiots
that use it, even the fictional idiots will keep me from viewing it for
a second time.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfriended isn't about killing your most hated adversaries over a
ghost-possessed computer programming. It is, however, about a possessed
computer screen killing the most idiotic and despicable people in the
worst ways possible, so that warrants a recommendation in my book.

The story is rather simple; on the anniversary of a bully's death, four
to five of the most disgusting teen "bros" and the sort get up on Skype
doing Christ knows what you do on the Skype before the Skype starts to
not act like the Skype. Did I mention Skype is in this film? 'Cause it
is. Anyway, the ghost of the bully posses the internet and instead of
ruining the lives abroad and giving Miguel Arteta and Lily James the
glorious TMZing of their life, she instead just goes and
psychologically tortures each worthless waste of life one by one. 

What makes the film a lot better than most of the watered down Found
Footage films is that both A) Each of the human protagonists being
assaulted by the ghost of 17-year old Skynet girl is a no-good scumbag
you actually want to see perish in the worst way possible, and B) The
film's central theme of cyber bullying being a harsh evil of our own
making gives this a terrifying feel that seems oh so close to feeling
real. If not, well, the ghostly Skynet girl part of it.

Well, those of you who only want to see the film for reason A) will be
glad because the film certainly delivers in that. However, I appreciate
an actual moral that genuinely feels scary, much like those old PSAs
about drugs, nukes, and texting while driving. And the fact that our
killer ghost is hidden behind the veil of an anonymous user with a
generic, imageless face hammers in a real dreadful sense, stating that
anyone can do this, anyone can cyber bully and anyone can turn your
life upside down. 

However, near the end, where we're losing the amount of people to kill,
the story noticeably sinks into oblivion and becomes "just another
Found Footage Horror film." Complete with a liar's subplot and an
ending that, while I'm trying not to spoil it, ruins the message and
any sense of dread. So, if you want to watch Unfriended, be sure to
either the leave the theatre near the end or push pause on the DVD
remote before turning the DVD player off.

Final Results: 2 and a Half Stars- C-Ranking
