
Not even sure what to say about this one. Kong was 950 feet tall. And
sweet. So sweet. Unless you threatened him or made him angry. Which
they managed to do. I think pretty much anything that Samuel Jackson is
in these days, must be avoided like the Bird flu. He is a compromised
actor of extreme proportions, and will literally do anything for a
buck. He is so tired. His routine is so old. Here he plays an army
officer, who of course has no respect for nature, animals, or the
earth. Hence the environmental statement. It is a statement that feels
like it was written by a 5 year old. Hollywood being the nearly
culturally bankrupt institution it is, seems to be incapable of a
balance, nuanced, elegant statement of any sort. So, they keep
producing this kind on inane garbage.

Why did 14 helicopter pilots, when faced with a 950 foot tall Kong, who
has a wing span the size of several football fields, fly within swat
range of this beast? Was it not possible they could have done any
better than that? Does Hollywood really need to continue to insult us
at every possible opportunity? 

The only redeeming quality this movie had was John C. Reilly. His comic
touch was all that kept me from walking out on this turkey. 

Hollywood, you can do better than this. You need to stop catering to
Chinese teenagers. This movie was terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to start off by saying that I am not going to sit here and
pretend to be above wanting to see a 100-foot tall ape shred through
some giant lizards and whatnot for around 2 hours.

If you were worried that Kong would wait 40 minutes to show the action
only to cut-away when the fan makes contact with the feces, then you
can put those worries to rest because this giant hairy grump is in your
face right off the bat.

I could immediately tell that this film wasn't about to shy away from
what we all craved so dearly in 2014's Godzilla, because from the first
gunshot onward this script hauls some serious behind straight toward
that colorful Skull Island which we were all so eager to see from the
trailers.

Now, I have learned from a number of painful years that discipline is a
key ingredient both behind the camera and beneath the projector. I like
to think that my expectations were fair. I did not look at any reviews
at any point before I hit that seat on that Thursday night - popcorn
and drink in hand. I was ready, man.

If I told you that the neat visuals surrounding the lineup of
lovecraftian nasties rendered into digital existence to confront the
titular ape was enough to save this picture, then I would be lying
straight to your face.

Yes, of course we get to see a glorious pair of giant angry ape fists
make heavy and satisfying contact with: Some helicopters, a couple of
lizards without legs (which is funny, because the T-Rexes in Peter
Jackson's King Kong lacked arms), a giant squid because, you know, we
needed 5 seconds of squid footage in the trailer I guess, more lizards,
and a big lizard whose sole purpose in life is to rustle some serious
jimmies.

But unfortunately, these scenes are sprinkled between around 2 hours of
having the camera choppily bob and weave between two separate groups
containing some of the most boring and uninteresting characters I have
ever come to forget. There is a cardboard hero who is good at
everything that the script needs him to be good at, a photographer who
takes, like, pictures I guess, and John C. Reilly, who is arguably the
closest this film gets to an interesting character.

And this is not because of the script. This is because he is John C.
Reilly adding his own touch to the script he was given, like Gordon
Ramsay doing his best after being handed a bag of plain rice and half
of a dildo.

Everybody else is a nameless nothing that we get to see be picked off
by giant insects in front of some of the worst green screen I have seen
in some time. Good, lord. What time of day was it again? Because I
swear to sweet baby Christ on a cracker that the sun set about six or
seven different times in the same day.

The helicopter's encounter followed (after seemingly quite some time)
by the final throw-down between Kong and captain ptorsodactyl
mcwigglynoodle was what truly got me through the cringe-inducing humor
and painfully humorous deaths.

This is one of those red-box gems that you'll have a better time with
once there is a beer in your hand rather than a 7 dollar popcorn.

03/10
<|_=00=_|>
Samuel L. Jackson's character ruined this movie. I found the plot and
theme to be very interesting, but so much of this movie (that I
saw...walked out right after the two parties met up and decided to go
look for the airman that was already dead)was just wrong. Flying
helicopters, in close formation, through a hurricane so severe no ship
can survive it? Ludicrous. Attacking a 300 ft. gorilla the 1st time you
see it, without even considering pulling back and assessing the threat,
and losing all of your helicopters in the process? Even more ludicrous.
The determination, by Jackson's character, that he's going to avenge
his fallen airmen and kill Kong? Just plain asinine. This seems like a
dig on the military as a bunch of crazed killers, whose first instinct
is to shoot and keep shooting until something, seemingly anything, is
killed. Rational, thinking people don't do this. A few changes would've
allowed this movie to be a wonderful adventure. 

Take Jackson's role out of this movie and it might be a classic. As it
is, I wouldn't rent it from Redbox. Very disappointed in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This abortion of a movie should never have seen the light of day. With
a credits list of OVER 1,300 people, you think someone would have put
their hand up and said "Umm... Wait a minute"

This is supposed to be 1974, but apparently no one bothered to check
any actual history. Even the props are more modern, with an office full
of DEC-VT100 display terminals from 1978 and later. Many other items in
this movie are clearly more modern than they should be. Totally lazy
for such an expensive project.

I guess if you cast Samuel L. Jackson into anything these days, it must
pass his "cartoon silliness test" to be produced. Tarantino can get
away with this with great dialog and action. The clowns producing this
hairball should hide their faces in public.

You can tell from the very beginning that this is going to be bad. Even
if you, as did I, go into it expecting very little. The setup of the
movie is long and face-slapping cliché. The actors, whom we know to be
quite skilled, are entirely wasted by bad bad bad dialogue and bad
direction. The editing is not so good either.

And when we get out onto the ocean (1974 remember), we are insulted by
Hollywood physics and meteorology. A huge storm doesn't even churn up
the waves near the ship *facepalm*

Of course, the dorks then fly their non-vintage helicopters into the
hell-storm, with super-fake lightning all around, and get through to
see the beautiful islands.

Within a few minutes, ALL of them have been knocked down by insisting
on flying close enough to Kong to get bashed *facepalm* holy crap.

Things only get more clichéd from there, with the grizzly 28 year
survivor (with the 20 year old son at the end), the demented Samuel
Jackson staring and almost drooling as he chews the scenery.

Vietnam veterans are insulted by their blind obedience to a ranting
idiot. Civilians and military alike enter "the valley of death" in
spite of the writers allowing some of the characters to suggest it's a
bad idea.

And then it gets really bad. "OMG bad".

And in all of this, you feel incredibly bored. It's dull, and bad, and
stupid.

Oh, and the "teaser for the idiots' sequel" comes after the 1,300+
lines of credits, if you are not asleep or barfing in the toilet.

Astoundingly bad.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey. You wanna see this movie? I can write it out for you and you will
literally get the same experience as watching it. Ready? 

Kong: Skull Island

*Opening credits*

*Introduce characters and story as fast as possible, with no back
story, making sure you don't care about them at all*

*Bad dialogue*

*Unbelievably cliché Vietnam era music plays*

*Bad dialogue*

*Unbelievably cliché Vietnam era music plays*

*Some shot that adds literally nothing to the movie*

*Bad dialogue*

*Random slow motion shot for no reason*

*cliché music*

"Who are these people?? What? Why? Hold on wait...what? Helicopters can
fly through hurricanes? Why isn't any rain getting inside? The doors
are open...whoa. There's king kong. He totally just took down a
helicopter. We should probably fly higher..since hes only like 100 feet
tall...and we are in helicopters? No? Well OK I guess..."

*pew pew pew...booooom. pew pew*

*ROAR SMASH*

*slow motion as cliché music plays*

*lots of bad dialogue and stuff that doesn't make any sense*

*comic relief*

*bad dialogue in slow motion*

*pew pew pew boom boom people die pew pew in slow motion as crappy
music plays*

*plot and story that makes no sense*

*pew pew boom roar smash ending fight*

*credits*

FIN

An absolute masterpiece. 10/10. Would rather scratch my eye balls out
with rusty nails.
<|_=00=_|>
Skull Island is another much-publicised remake that should have been
left alone.

Granted, monster movies are enjoyed mainly for the effects, the
graphics and gratuitous, large scale destruction and carnage. Top that
off with a hero, a damsel and a nutcase or two and away you go. Who
cares about acting, characters that you could identify with or hate and
a script?

All that is well and good except for one thing and better movies have
failed because of it. That thing is in the form of characters who are
unusually and blatantly stupid. It may help advance the storyline but
if that is the only avenue then the script needs to be rewritten,
preferably by someone with an IQ.

No, I'm actually generous in my criticism. Here are some examples:

Helicopter pilots who fly really close to a 100ft ape that has already
grabbed and mangled several other helicopters until every single one
has been caught and pulverised. These are experienced pilots fresh from
the Vietnam war. Now everyone has to get to the North of the island for
a supply drop on foot. Really?

Or how about this, a female reporter who wanders into no-man's-land to
help a 60ft water buffalo that is trapped under a fallen helicopter.
Instead of getting any of the strapping blokes and tribesmen who are
just around the corner to help, she tries to shift the helicopter by
herself. So what if the megaton bullock couldn't budge it?

Yes, it exposes her to danger. The type of danger that otherwise can
not be manifested in any other way. Really?

Oh please, stop! Mercy!

On the plus side, by this stage I had developed real feelings for the
scriptwriter, the director and the producer, none of which was intended
or that I care to express here.

Go see it if you must. Suspend your sense of reality and just go with
it. Rest assured, you too will come out with feelings towards the
aforementioned gentlemen.
<|_=00=_|>
Some people go to the movies to be wowed by the superb acting, heart
wrenching and well written story, and overall solid production... THIS
has good effects? The acting in this film isn't bad, but it definitely
won't win any awards for it. 

The story has characters Bill Randa (John Goodman) and Houston Brooks
(Corey Hawkins) piggybacking on an expedition to an uncharted island to
test their "hollow earth" theory. Tom Hiddleston plays a tracker, Brie
Larson plays a photographer, and John C. Reilly plays a surprisingly
funny WW2 vet marooned on Skull Island.

The film takes place in 1973 and loves to remind you with CCR and old
technology as if it was a hundred years ago. Kong: Skull Island pays
homage to Apocalypse Now quite frequently even though it seems a bit
excessive at times.

Kong looked good, almost all the creatures looked cool and all the
fights between them looked really good, especially in IMAX 3D. Some of
the green screen effects, like backgrounds behind characters, were
distractingly bad. Ultimately, you get some great stuff out of all the
effects if you're not looking too closely.

The characters are more hollow than the earth (according to the film's
characters themselves), the story is mediocre, but the effects reign
king in this film adaptation. 

My suggestion: See it! it's a blockbuster meant to fill seats, not win
awards. Take it for what it is.

Seen at an advanced IMAX 3D screening in Minneapolis.
<|_=00=_|>
When I initially saw the trailer to this movie I immediately knew that
this movie was going to be absolute garbage. Making a movie just to set
up future sequels is a horrible idea since it removes all tension in
the movie. Although I expected the movie to be bad, I didn't expect a
contender to Worst Movie of the Year (first is XxX: Return of Xander
Cage). Almost everything this movie does is horrible due to bad acting,
despite having big actors, bad cinematography, bad plot, and horrible
characters. One mediocre thing about this movie was the special
effects. So let's begin by talking about the worst thing of the movie:

1.Characters: The characters in this movie are the absolute worst.
There is not one likable or memorable character in this movie except
John C. Reily's character. All the others are uninteresting, stupid,
and not memorable in the slightest. One example of this would be San,
played by Tian Jing. Despite San being a "main character", she is never
introduced (if she was it must have been a second long) and is always
in the background saying about two lines in the whole movie. The only
reason I can think of why her character is introduced is to appeal to
the Asian crowd the studio was marketing this movie to. The rest of the
characters are just as boring as San with everyone doing a horrible job
at acting. It is apparent that the director was trying to make the
marine characters likable. However, unlike movies that had likable
marine characters like Predator and Aliens, Kong: Skull Island's
marines are the most boring characters ever and don't evoke emotion
when they die, except maybe happiness. The only good character in this
movie is John C. Reily. Even though he would occasionally stop the
movie's pacing with his joke's, he was clearly the only one who tried
their best.

2.Setting: Another weakness of this movie is its setting. After my
viewing of the movie I realized that there was no reason for this movie
to take place during the Vietnam War other than to give an excuse to go
to locations in Asia to appeal to Asian countries. However, the island
is interesting and has a variety of environment, which does add some
anticipation. 

3.Kong/Creatures: Now it's time for the meat n' potatoes of the movie,
the creatures. In Peter Jackson's portrayal of King Kong, the creatures
fit in the story. However, in Kong: Skull Island, it seems like the
director went outside and made whatever he saw big. Another problem is
that the creatures are always alone. In 2005 King Kong, we saw the
creatures in big packs that showed how large the population was.
Another problem was the main bad creature which didn't fit with the
real life creatures featured in the film.

4.Inconsistencies/ Stupid plot devices: One main problem with this
movie is all the stupid devices that keep the story more exciting. One
example would be how bullets don't hurt the main evil creatures but a
sword does. Also, Kong being immune to fire is very distracting and
ends up making the ending ridiculous. One distracting inconsistency
would be the scene when they head towards the storm that supposedly
hides Skull Island. When they are on the ship it is clear that there is
about five choppers on the ship. However, when they start heading into
the storm there are about twelve choppers. One reason for this is to
inflate the number of casualties after Kong destroys all the
helicopters. 

In the end, Kong: Skull Island is a very bad movie. However, if you are
able to turn off your brain and not realize everything bad about the
movie, then you will enjoy it.

Final Verdict: 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I like to see a movie that on some level is at least plausible and does
not require you to suspend reality entirely to go along with what you
are seeing on the screen. First why would all twelve choppers stay
within striking distance of Kong after the first couple were knocked
out of the sky?? And then all of them get destroyed as well -
Ridiculous! Second how does a creature the size of a ten story building
sneak up on the unsuspecting human characters over and over? After Kong
being machine gunned early on in the film and seeing that he was
bleeding heavily and in quite a bit of pain he miraculously heals as if
it had never happened! The leader of the squad of pilots somehow thinks
he can kill Kong to the exclusion of all rationality in the face of
overwhelming adversity and convince his fellow pilots to go along with
him - ludicrous! How do giant squids and the giant skull crawler appear
out of nowhere in shallow water not even up to Kong's knees? I could
provide many more examples but I think I have made my point clear.
Whoever writes these scripts does not base things on even vaguely
realistic scenarios which makes for a less than satisfying viewing
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
When the Vietnam War ends, Bill Randa (John Goodman) and his partner
Houston Brooks (Corey Hawkins) from the Monarch organization succeed to
get the financing for an expedition to the recently discovered Skull
Island from Senator Willis (Richard Jenkins). He hires the former
Captain James Conrad (Tom Hiddleston) to guide the expedition; a group
of soldiers under the command of Colonel Preston Packard (Samuel L.
Jackson); and the awarded journalist and photographer Mason Weaver
(Brie Larson). On the arrival, the helicopters need to cross a storm
and soon they drop bombs on the forest to map the seismology of the
island. Soon they are attacked by a huge gorilla called Kong that
destroys the helicopters and kills part of the crew and scatter the
rest through the island. The group commanded by Conrad meets Hank
Marlow (John C. Reilly), a survivor from the World War II that lives
with a tribe of natives. He explains that Kong protects the island and
the natives from underground monsters and shall not be killed. But
Colonel Packard is insane seeking revenge for his men that died.

"Kong: Skull Island" is a brainless adventure with several stupidities.
For example, the number of helicopters in the beginning of the journey
of Randa, Conrad and Packard is totally incompatible with the size of
their ship. Bo pilot would dare to cross a storm like that in a
helicopter. The attack of all the helicopters to Kong is absolutely
imbecile. Most of the survivor's attitude are at least unreasonable. On
the other side, the adventure is highly entertaining and the special
effects are top notch. Therefore the best option to the viewer is to
shut down the brain and enjoy the adventure since this is the purpose
of this type of blockbuster. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Kong: A Ilha da Caveira" ("Kong: The Skull Island")
