
I was expecting to detest this movie, and I'm happy to say that I found
some enjoyment in We Are Your Friends. I'm not too big on EDM; I love
some of it, dislike most of it, but this movie actually painted the
genre/scene in an interesting light. They add a human element to the
otherwise processed and compressed music, and it's pretty captivating.
At least those scenes are. Where the movie fails can be attributed to
its title. We Are Your Friends shouldn't have been about friendship or
having each others backs or whatever they were trying to go for because
that is by far the weakest element of the movie. Zac Efron is great in
the lead role, but his friends are complete throwaway characters. I
didn't care about any of them. There is one scene near the end where
the friend arc almost pays off, but even then it's not worth all the
wasted minutes building up these characters when there's a far more
interesting story that's going to waste.

The story I'm referring to involves Wes Bentley's character James who
is a washed up DJ that kind of fell from grace and is now living off
royalty checks and he ends up being the person who teaches Cole (Efron)
how to make electronic music effective. I really enjoyed Bentley in
this role. In fact, the whole trifecta of Efron, Bentley, and Emily
Ratajkowski is what made the movie watchable. Bentley being the mentor
character who is fighting a lot of inner demons, Efron being the
ambitious musician who is hungry for his big break, and Ratajkowski
showing off her acting talent as the assistant/girlfriend to Bentley's
character who ends up falling for Efron. Even though it sounds like a
cliché love triangle, for some reason it works. There's tension between
these characters - you care about the friendship between James and
Cole, but you also recognize their faults and why Emily's character is
torn in her position. They make for some pretty powerful scenes.

But again, this potential is muddled underneath a bunch of Hollywood
crap. There's a throwaway plot about the gang working for a real estate
agency, there's an attempt at a moral to being true to yourself in
order to make it big, there is just a bunch of predictable nonsense
that clutters this film which is a shame. Believe me, I was not
expecting to have any nice things to say about We Are Your Friends, but
there is definitely something here. The fact is that the goodness in
the movie is a diamond in the rough, and sadly, this diamond isn't
worth all the rough.
<|_=00=_|>
"Are we ever gonna be better than this?!" Cole (Efron) is a DJ trying
to make it big, all he needs is "that one track". When he meets James
(Bently) a DJ that is willing to mentor him he thinks he finally found
what he wants. Cole soon finds out that trying meet the expectations of
his friends, hiding his romantic feelings, and working on his music
isn't as easy as he was hoping for. I was really not looking forward to
this at all. I'm not a big Zac Efron fan, nor am I a fan of this type
of house music. That being said, I actually liked this more than I
expected to. The movie is a little generic and nothing all that
special, but there was just something about it that kept me watching
and entertained. Efron actually does a pretty good job of portraying
what the character is thinking when he is not speaking and only working
his board. This is not an amazing movie and won't win any awards but I
actually liked this much more than I was expecting to. If you are into
this type of sound you will probably like it much more than I did, if
you aren't you still may enjoy this like I did. Overall, a surprise of
a movie that I liked more than I expected to. I surprisingly give this
a B.
<|_=00=_|>
EDM Music has become a crazy world of drugs, sex and bass drops. Being
an avid fan of this genre well before it become a trendy thing to do, I
have definitely been a bit disheartened by how kids treat the scene
these days. Instead of the focus being on the music, its on being half
naked, rolling on E and hooking up with anything with a pulse (that
last part is probably optional). This movie shows all of that (of
course) but the focus is on doing something MORE with your life. Its
about moving people, being memorable and creating from the heart.

I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. I smiled
and laughed pretty much the entire time. It was quite funny, poking a
bit at how ridiculous this "culture" has become but remained true to
the spirit of the music. Zac Efron did a really good job at portraying
a DJ who really IS all about creating music. All of his "friends" were
accurately portrayed because we ALL have that douchey friend, that
clueless friend and we know that guy that's just kinda there, hanging
out. Wes Bentley was superb as the alcoholic has-been DJ (but come on,
its Wes Bentley. He's superb at everything he does). The scenery was
spot-on and exciting, taking you on multiple roller-coaster rides of
cartoon drug trips, wild dance parties and of course, sexy time. And
can I just say, as a women, how much I enjoyed gazing upon Emily
Ratajkowski and her glorious boobs?! WHEW! 

You must take this movie for what it is. You should probably be a fan
of EDM music (or at least music in general) to really enjoy this movie.
The screening I was at was full of a much older crowd who seemed
genuinely confused. "I thought this was a movie about friendship?"
Well, it IS. In a crazy world of drugs, sex and bass drops.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the film this afternoon. Being A fan of the Genre and
lifestyle its based around, I knew what to expect; a generic 'party'
film with an interesting story line and enjoyable scenes.Unfortunately,
it didn't deliver. I feel like the entire movie was going at 100mph,
ensuring plot depth was minimal. I left the theater feeling empty, and
as if the story didn't really impact upon me at all or make me think.
Like I read in an earlier review, it was very superficial. At the end
of the day, It's really just something you go see with a gal to kill
some time. I had low standards for the film but yet it still managed to
disappoint me.
<|_=00=_|>
Its no secret this movie bombed in the box office. That didn't stop me
from watching it. Zac Efron has done a lot of good movies IMO.

I really don't care about the politics of the story. Some say its just
a recycled idea. Kids want to be famous, have troubles, guy wants the
girl, want to get rich, blah blah blah.

I watched this with an open mind and was pretty impressed. The damn
soundtrack was on point!! The music was so good that I just kept
watching to listen to the music. The story was good and the acting was
good as well.

For someone to say "Never watch this movie" is absurd to me. Its worth
a watch or two. I plan to re-watch it with my wife. (She was sleeping
at the time.) The ending of the movie was down right pleasurable and I
really connected with the main character at that point.

Watch this movie and then judge. Don't ever take someone else's word on
a movie until you've watched it. Everyone is entitled to their own
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel those expecting some mega existential change your life material
out of movies miss out on the finer points. 

Sure, there will be plenty of young people thinking this is a 'party'
movie, and Zac Ephron followers will flock to the cinema to see him. 

Those of us who actually enjoy story telling will be OK with this
flick. Sure it wasn't heavy with mystery or intrigue, its a coming of
age story of 4 friends trying to live out their dreams. Who doesn't
have a story like that. Its about growing past those dreams, building
new ones and dealing with the repercussions of the changes in life we
make....some times which are thrust upon us. 

The music is what I liked about this movie. Its not unlike other music
related movies where an epiphany occurs for the lead character which
makes all the difference in the world. 

For an easy going movie this was worth the cheap night tickets I
bought.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the movie because I like another Zac Efon vehicle, That
Awkward Moment. The Movie is similar as it's about Efron leading a
group of men in their early twenties that really need to grow up, but
That Awkward Moment was a hilarious comedy, while We Are Your Friends
is more of a satire. 

It's not like that other DJ movie, Eden. Both tell the story about the
life of a DJ, but we are Your Friends plays out more like 8- Mile, that
tells the beginning of Eminem's climb to the top. Efon's character
gives a philosophy on being a DJ that I've seen in other movies about
music but never about DJing, which was cool. 

The movie takes the subject matter seriously, but I feel the movie
takes itself too seriously. For the most part its very light hearted
but then they attempt to be sophisticated. Maybe this was to explore
the full aspect of the scene they live in, but all it did for me was
change the vibe too much.

But overall, the trailer made We Are Your Friends look like Efron was
playing an A-hole while hanging with his A-hole friends doing A- hole
things, but the movie itself was much better than that, but not much
better.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. I thought it was so inspiring. Maybe I'm in a place
in my life where I need some serious hope, but I got it from this
movie. It was worth renting for a few reasons but two of the biggest
reasons are these two quotations:

1. "This is the best part, the best part of anything really, it's the
moment before it starts." 

That one line is riddled with anticipation & hope. Just great.

2. "and if it's real enough, honest enough, & if it's made of
everything that's made you, where you come from, who you knew, your
history, then you may have a chance at connecting with everyone else &
maybe that's your ticket to everything."

gives me chills.

I honestly watch very few movies where lines, ideas, or overall
messages stick with me but this one did in such a positive way. It's
all about growing up, working hard, struggling, making mistakes, but
picking yourself back up & with all your grit making something of
yourself. It's an age old concept but the way they did it stuck with
me. The movie was shot beautifully & although I'm not into this kind of
music or the lifestyle shown the filmmakers did a good job guiding me
through it & connecting it to the overall concept so it can be
universally applied to any kind of lifestyle or career choice. And you
can't take your eyes off of Efron. Yes he's a dreamboat but he is
mesmerizing in this. You root for this beautifully imperfect character
just making it happen for himself. Zac - never stop taking interesting
roles. You were truly great in this & are hugely talented. I laughed, I
cried, & overall just loved the movie. I will be watching this again
when I need to be inspired & reminded of the beauty that can come from
hard work & pure soul.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the premiere last night and I don't have many words to say.
It's because the movie left me without any impression. I didn't have
any emotions during the whole movie except maybe one scene that had me
reminded of my ultra experience. Also, the plot is predictable and it's
all kind of superficial. A first half an hour was so boring and then I
felt it could go up to the better, but no, the rest was the average
even though the action have little changed and a bit of drama was
dropped, but not enough good scenes to keep me interested. Movie
soundtrack could be much, much better, as well. If you need to kill an
hour and a half go watch it, but if you want to see some good movie
don't. Maybe a little bit of naked Zac would save the day, but that
also did't happen.
<|_=00=_|>
Zac Efron is definitely becoming a bigger star than we give credit for,
he's choosing some great roles and some very unique ones. But why he
chose "we are your friends" is beyond me. When I first heard of the
title being made I was kind of excited as we don't have many movies
about DJ's. But unfortunately we get a movie more about clichés than we
get about DJs themselves. This movie tries so hard to be something
original yet falls into place of other clichéd music movies. Lets mark
them down.

-Talented person starting from the bottom trying to make his way: Check

- Finds a talented producer with whom he starts working with: Check

- Starts a relationship with a the girl his mentor/producer is dating
behind his back: Check

- One of the closest friends dies: Check

- Finds his sound in the end: Check

And so on and so forth. The summary in short is Zac plays a DJ named
Cole trying to become bigger and finding his song, along the way he has
friends help him out, takes odd jobs and works with a producer to help
while having a relationship behind his back. In the end he's given the
chance of a lifetime to prove how talented he is. 

There's not really much going on here, the movie does;t do anything
different, You learn bit about DJ culture, and while as a DJ I must
admit drugs are a big part of the scene, the movie starts to glorify
drugs such as molly and more. And even in one scene when Cole trips on
PCP in a very weird yet artistic segment. 

Now for all the bad that there is there is some good but not enough to
save this film. Zac Efron does a good job acting and is practically a
saving grace for and otherwise lacklustre film, he does a good job
narrating and showing some cool DJ tricks while he's spinning. The
other saving grace is probably the music, now again most of the music
here is EDM, and as for me I do quite enjoy EDM music, but if you're
not a fan there's not much here for you in terms of that. 

Newcomer director Max Joseph took a chance in trying something new with
the DJ culture but didn't exactly bring much here. And it's too bad
because Max does have a good eye and great visual aspect, but for why
he chose this movie, when it's completely riddled with bad acting,
nothing original and overly clichéd film, is beyond me. 

We are your friends is not a good movie and definitely one I would pass
on, it's not good but it isn't horrible. Its more forgettable as there
is nothing fresh here all characters are bland including Zac Efron
Cole, and there's no redeeming factor to watch this even more than
once. "We are your friends" is a movie trying to hard with little
vision and lacklustre story. Watch but don't expect much.
