
I just love the whole plot of this movie. 

Joaquin Phoenix plays a brilliant and drunken philosophy professor who
contemplates the perfect crime as a way to get a new jolt of energy to
his wipe out existence. 

Woody Allen is not really my cup of tea, but I dig some of his work.
The movies that jump out at me that I really like are Magic in the
Moonlight that also stars Emma Stone and Midnight in Paris. 

What I saw of Irrational Man on the surface that was being portrayed in
trailers is nothing compared to what was being passed off as the real
plot of this movie.

Phoenix give such an magnificent performance I feel that it's more his
vehicle than a Woody Allen movie. Adding to his performance was what he
shaped his body into, which was ironically impressive. I can't remember
the last time I saw such a fat gut being exploited in a movie, It
literally help him to become the center of attention.

Similar to the Hitchcock classic, Strangers on a Train (especially in
plot), The movie gives a very interesting take on the perfect crime.
It's not coming from a cops perspective at all, or about solving the
perfect crime, It's all about the emotion of the man who tries to
commit such a crime, and how easily he can blend into our society. 

It starts as very lighthearted movie about a self-loathing over thinker
and then turns really dark without actually becoming dark. 

It made me laugh and it held my interest. I'm very impressed with what
Woody Allen put together.
<|_=00=_|>
A tight script? Check. Capable actors? Check. Lots of witty dialogue?
Check. A jazzy soundtrack? Check. Beautiful photography in idyllic
settings? Check.

Yes, all the ingredients are there. Just leave it to the 79-year old
chef to create a delicious dish out of it. When everything is right, a
Woody Allen movie is a delight to watch. And with 'Irrational Man',
this is absolutely the case.

Joaquin Phoenix and Emma Stone are clearly enjoying themselves as the
grumpy philosophy professor and his admiring student and lover. Allen's
script plays in a lighthearted way with serious philosophical concepts
such as guilt, evil and righteousness. Also, he throws in a murder
mystery and makes the suspense last until the very end.

'Irrational Man' will not be one of Allen's greatest movies, because it
lacks an extraordinary element like Cate Blanchett's performance in
'Blue Jasmine', or the historical dimension of 'Midnight in Paris'. But
even without such an extra ingredient, 'Irrational Man' shows an expert
craftsman at work. In a couple of years time, it might just turn out to
be one of his most underrated films.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie today and it was just a breath of fresh air. In this
era of political correctness and the consequent surge of tragicomedies
that seem to be made to drive home the point that everything in life
must be serious, Woody, in his infinite wisdom, has prescribed us a
style of comedy often hated, misunderstood, and forgotten: the murder
comedy a la Chaplin's Monsieur Verdoux. I haven't laughed this hard at
someone trying to kill another person since Preston Sturges's 1948 film
Unfaithfully Yours, even though it's ultimately a much more understated
English style of humor (very Comedy of Manners-ish.) As such, it
doesn't surprise me that Irrational Man has been hated by most critics,
since they are likely to fall into the trap of expecting that this
movie will be one of the aforementioned tragicomedies, and thus simply
think it fails to deliver. Instead, here Woody seems to find comedy in
everything from Kant to sexism to suicide to faculty gossip, and as a
consequence, the movie ends up as loose as his "early funny movies,"
unfortunately adding just another layer that might further confuse
audiences. Essentially, if you don't find the satire quick you just
won't understand what you're watching. On the actor side of things,
Stone and Joaquin really kill it. It almost feels like they can turn
the intensity up as easily as turning a knob, and there are three
moments when you really get a sense of how far they can go.

This will certainly be on a list of Woody's most underrated movies in
ten years time if the bad reception it gets doesn't slow down, and I
hope that people will take the time to realize just what this movie is
because I think they'd really have a good time watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody has such a full body of work that's stretched for decades, there
is hardly anyone to compare him to. That being so, it's even
interesting to think about people's reactions when a new one of his
movies is released. After watching a new one, the most vocal people
tend to try to rank it either at the very top or very bottom of his
movies. I think that does the movie-watching experience a disservice.

There's very much to like about this movie and just as many ways to
watch it. For one, it's like a classy fun witty and romantic Hitchcock
movie, albeit transposed coolly and beautifully to the present-day. For
two, Khondji's cinematography is an absolute afternoon delight. For
three, the three leads are brilliantly cast and played. For four, it's
a fun movie about an ethical experiment. For five, it's a fable-like
tale of good and evil, safe and daring. For six, it's a very intense
story of girls and women, and the very harrowing gulf between. For
seven, it fits majestically within possibly Woody's most noble
ambition: to have the same movie be as good a comedy as it is a tragedy
as it is a story of triumph, in other words, it's an ambitious script.
It's an ambitious script also because of the shifting of narrator
throughout, and the way each shift pulls at our sympathies. I was
laughing at the same time that I was biting my nails and trying to
remember to breathe. 

We're truly blessed to be able to watch these when they're new! Future
generations will envy us, the way we might envy people who were there
to see the new Hitchcock or even the new Chaplin.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a guy can't catch a break, and it may be for good reason.
With Woody Allen and the critics of Irrational Man, one may think
there's a rational reason, no clever spin intended. Here's a man who is
spectacular at what he does, but he doesn't have the most immense range
of the American iconoclast-auteurs - by this point, after writing films
for 50 years and directing for over 45, critics and most audiences get
the gist of what the man works with: some occasional fantasy,
light-hearted comedy, serious, brooding drama, romance, mystery, magic,
existentialism and the separation of reality and fantasy. But for
myself, I went into this trying to take it just on its own terms: does
it work as its own story, as to what it's trying to do, with or without
the author's baggage? I think it does, often quite well, and it makes a
sort of cap to an unexpected, thematic trilogy of movies, which I'll
get to in a moment.

In Irrational Man it starts out like what seems to be a story of a
philosophy professor (Phoenix) caught in despair, while an eager,
bright student (Stone) starts to fancy him. He's blocked, he can't seem
to write (or "sleep with" Parker Posey's character early on), and he
drinks fairly heavily (Phoenix adds a pot belly to the mix). But its
main turning point turns it into what is a Hitchcockian tale of murder
and deception, all due to eavesdropping on the sad tale of a cruel
judge presiding over a custody case. It turns this professor's life
around, albeit with a rather dark twist.

By Hitchcockian it's easy to throw that label around, but this is a
filmmaker who has previously used a scene from Shadow of a Doubt (I
forget which movie, but I remember characters watching it in one of his
films), and now has some elements taken from it. Hey, how about a
discussion in a very lively, satirical manner about the best way to go
about a murder? Or what if it's a complete stranger with a poison of
some kind? At the same time Allen throws in Emma Stone, once again
after 'Moonlight' but here now modern and always great to look at as a
star on screen with full-on talent and energy to burn with her co-star.
Phoenix, meanwhile, gets a lot of this man's despair, and then his odd
joy too - though Phoenix may not seem like the most spot-on actor to
show 'energy' in the later half of the film, he is still completely
there for what this character requires.

What I liked about Irrational Man, even with some of its familiarity in
the Allen world - professor with a younger student romantically,
questions of morality, what it means when PURE luck really defines what
happens for people - is that it was genuine about how its characters
saw and changed with their views on the world, and that on its own you
get wrapped up in the question of "Will he really get away with this?"
To be sure, this question was asked with greater intellectual rigor in
Crimes & Misdemeanors, and Match Point had an even tougher, bleaker
view of what it means for people to get ahead in the world no matter
who stands in heir way. But all three of these movies seem to make up a
trilogy - maybe we can call it his 'Dostoyevsky' series - with this one
being what I should think is the capper of them. Now it's not an older
businessman or a young upstart, but someone who has spent his life
trying to figure out what it means to live a meaningful life in theory
vs practice.

It may be the literalness of this comparison that will throw off some
viewers. That and/or the narration. I have to say that is the one thing
I'm really unsure of after seeing it for the first time; on the one
hand it works with the realm of film noir, as in here are characters
who are constantly plotting or trying to think their way through some
sort of emotional or moral logic (and the moment where the plot really
kicks off, it seems hard for me to figure how it could be done without
voice-over), but on the other there are moments where it is too much,
that a moment could work without the character's direction. On the
other hand again, it's an existential comedy that takes itself very
seriously, or a semi-romantic and dramatic love story that has some
light touches (and that ending!) Irrational Man isn't great, but it's
very good, exceeding any expectations I could've had, in large part
thanks to a cast and, by the way, some really skillful and beautiful
direction on the whole (and the warm cinematography, all shot in
Newport, Rhode Island). I'll be curious if this gets re-evaluated in
10-15 years.
<|_=00=_|>
Like so many, I will always go and see a Woody Allen film. If nothing
else, there is something so nastalgic about the opening title sequence
of white text against black background while dixieland music turns in
the background (although during these credits there is a noticeably
lack of music). Add Pheonix to the mix and chances are so high that the
film will be enjoyable to watch. In short, it wasn't.

Pheonix sipping from a flask while driving fast in an old Volvo, black
shades on - cool. But progressively less and less cool and realistic as
the film goes on. How often do you expect me to believe that this
professor drinks from his flask throughout the day without falling
asleep or having someone say 'Hey dude, stop doing that, you're on a
college campus'.

I wish I cared for the characters, but between all the abrupt cuts from
one scene to completely different scene without ever feeling grounded,
and the abundance of very lukewarm dialogue - 'philosophy is just
verbal masturbation' (wow how witty for a philosophy professor to say)
- i just never felt like I knew who the characters were, or wanted to
know them. 

I was put off by the obviousness of the premise - student falls for the
tortured philosophy professor. Philosophy professor is too damaged to
care about anything, until he finally finds inspiration...but in the
wrong place - and expected that Allen wouldn't have bothered going down
that road unless he had something truly unique to add. But there was
nothing, it honestly seemed like a stripped down first draft of the
film with dialogue feeling so uncomfortable at times as if they didn't
get a very good take but just said, 'screw, move on', i.e. people
talking over one another, but in an unnatural way like they forgot the
other person still had some of their line to say. 

The visuals were pleasant. I enjoyed seeing Pheonix with a pot-belly
and a long t-shirt, looking like an app developer. There were nice
shots of a college campus, cliffs by the sea, quaint east coast house
interiors, and so on. Not enough to hold my interest, and not enough
for me to forgive the cringy dialogue or accept the unbelievable second
half of the movie.

Anyways, I probably won't dissuade an Allen fan from seeing one of his
movies, and I wouldn't want to. Go and watch it, and check it off the
list.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this even more than my rating suggests and I haven't scored
it higher because it didn't make me want to see it again straightaway,
which is basically my rationale for giving a film tops. Why not?
Because, I think, I simply loved everything about this film and sat
smiling and tingling not sure what was coming next but loving it all
and I don't think all that would happen second time. Daft? Yes, maybe
but certainly this is a must see film, perfectly constructed with full
on comedic script and intelligent and sparkling dialogue. There is even
a bit of action! Woody gives a nod here to Strangers on a Train but i
think he he were honest there is even more of 'Dexter'. Its that clever
mix of logic, rationality, morality, sin and humour. Lots of little
things amused me, I particularly liked the elements of 'chance' and the
astute and sharp critiques of various philosophers. i also enjoyed
being surprised and never quite knowing where this was going - just
loving the ride. This is most defiantly like 'one of those early funny
ones, indeed we may have to start referring to 'those later funny ones'
if Woody Allen carries on at this rate. Excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
When deciding to go to Irrational Man, I believed to be in for a treat.
As a philosophy major struggling with an occasional existential crisis,
I thought it might be cool to see a movie about a philosopher in
similar peril. Although the movie starts our rather promising, it
quickly lapses into utter disaster. About halfway you can stop watching
as you know exactly how it will end and you might even be able to
anticipate exactly what the actors are going to say. The movie is quite
the opposite of a scenario in which you recognize only at the last
moment that the situation is going dire. You do not really get sucked
into the performance, but you just see random people uttering lines of
text. The philosophy used can be taken from one introductory course but
no real errors are made, except for running into dozens of cliché's.
The dramatic ending resulted in hysterical laughter throughout the
theater, not because it was funny, but because it was so poor. In fact,
I have gone through the trouble of creating an account, just to be able
to point out that this movie is a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who like 'Match Point' which I feel is a masterpiece, this is
a more comic but equally interesting movie. The tone and music are more
comical and light hearted but it's really quite nail biting when things
come together.

Joaquin acts like a depressed person like no one else can and he's very
suited to the role of the professor, pot belly and all. Parker Posey is
quite hilarious as the colleague who throws herself at him. Emma Stone
looks less bulgy eyed and clever than usual. The way she chooses the
wrong guy over a good boyfriend is quite real.

Like the coastal setting, more natural and outdoors than usual for
Woody Allen.

There have been some negative reviews from critics but I don't
understand why. This movie is original, funny, exciting and you care
for the characters and listen to the dialog.
<|_=00=_|>
Joaquin Phoenix is still one of the best an most interesting actors 
working today, and Emma Stone, who is just getting better and better is 
one of the most enjoyable actresses to watch just now. In Irrational 
Man, Phoenix plays a college professor who is new to the campus where 
Stone's character studies, although his reputation proceeds him, as 
students and lecturers alike are abuzz with excitement over his 
arrival. Men can't figure him out and women cling to him despite his 
paunch and nonchalance, never mind his unconventional teaching methods 
in philosophy. What ensues is a friendship between Phoenix and Stone 
that grows over her affection for him, and by way of a conversation 
heard in a diner that puts a local judge in poor light because he's in 
a position to strip a seemingly good mother of the rights to see her 
children. This puts the movie in familiar territory for anyone who has 
seen Rope, but also Allen's own Match Point, Love and Death and Crimes 
and Misdemeanors, where the morality and immorality of murder is 
discussed. Which puts Phoenix in an interesting position as a 
philosophy professor with some very frank and matter-of-fact ideas 
about life and living. And he plays this well, without channeling his 
director in the way other actors have in the past, but creating a 
character who is smart, troubled and very inviting. There's a world 
weariness and a nervous energy in Phoenix that's countered by Stone's 
wide-eyed optimism and inherently decent qualities, which are traits 
that she encompasses so very well as an actress. She's easy to get on 
side with just as Phoenix is always able to invite viewers into the 
mind of the characters he plays. But it's Allen's script that 
underwhelms, if not his framing and staging of conversational scenes. 
Questions and ideas are posed without enough attached to them, although 
the stakes may be high, the narrative is familiar and one could expect 
Jessica Fletcher or Columbo to be involved in such a story. Whilst the 
frequent use of the Ramsey Lewis Trio's The In Crowd has meaning, but 
not enough purpose in how this become a theme for the movie. Which I 
quite liked, because I like Murder She Wrote, Columbo and Diagnosis 
Murder, and that's really the territory Allen is in here. But it's far 
from his best, although his work-ethic is remarkable, along with the 
fact that he isn't guilty of missing the mark or making poor movies, 
even when he's coasting.
