
Like as was said in my review for 'Daddy, I'm a Zombie', being such a
huge fan of animation, it does honestly pain me whenever any criticisms
are made to a film or television series that are mediocre or less when
talking about them. It gives me no pleasure at all, despite how my
previous negative reviews for animation sound, in saying anything bad
but one has to if the product in question disappoints.

'Daddy, I'm a Zombie' didn't do much for me but to me it looked like
some effort was put into it, even if it was vastly overshadowed by the
things that it did wrong (which was a lot). When hearing that 'Daddy,
I'm a Zombie' had a sequel, my immediate reaction was "what's the
point?" After seeing 'Daddy, I'm a Zombie 2' (its UK title) with an
open mind, out of fairness and curiosity, it still strikes me as not
just a pointless sequel to a film that didn't need one and wasn't good
enough to warrant one but a very weak film on its own terms.

Not everything in 'Daddy, I'm a Zombie 2' is done terribly. Again, some
of the animation is not bad, not amazing but considering that it's not
high-budget stuff it could have been far worse. There are some lovely
atmospheric colours that give off a strong Gothic vibe and the
backgrounds clearly look like a lot of care and detail went into them.

The music is similarly bang on, it's both haunting and energetic with a
nice oddball touch when needed. Appreciated its attempt at providing a
message on acceptance.

However, there is a lot wrong in 'Daddy, I'm a Zombie 2'. All the first
film's flaws are repeated here and amplified while even more are made
on the way. The film primarily suffers from trying to include far too
many elements and doesn't do anything with them. Everything here feels
muddled and superficial, while also being heavy-handed and annoying. It
strived to include comedy, high school topical issues, messaging and
supernatural horror, failing at all four.

Simply put the script is an over-baked and also superficial mess. The
high school and zombie accomplices comedy is incredibly cheesy and
childish, never once ringing true or being funny (one doesn't even
crack a wry smile). The high school topical issues are very
ill-explored, doing nothing fresh with relevant but done to death
issues and such and treating them in a way that talks down to and at
the audience. The messaging is severely overworked, the acceptance
moral is wasted by the shallow motivation for its inclusion, and the
horror elements are both too overly-dark and too tame with the Gothic
vibe even more derivative and bland than before.

With the story, there's no better news. It is very predictable and
without any entertainment, educational or emotional content, but even
more problematic is that it's vastly over-populated feel constantly
gives the sense that there is far too much going on. The characters are
generic and too black-and-white archetypes with their personalities not
being anywhere near close to engaging. The voice acting is again both
bland and annoying, they even found a voice actor for Gonner that most
of the time one can't understand a word of what the character is
saying. Characters still look stiff and robotic, even more so actually
than its predecessor.

In conclusion, very weak. 3/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
This is a straight to DVD movie for young children to pre-pre teens.
Clearly a lower budget. It cannot be compared to its big budget counter
parts. While I could nitpick on the technical, Im going to focus on the
theme and message of the story. This is a young girl learning her way
through life and school. She's trying to keep her identity and testing
the popularity waters.She is given some shady advice from her mom who
is too busy worrying about her daughter fitting in to give her any
genuine caring advice. Frankly she sounds like a former Mean Girl
herself. Despite that with some adventures she finds who she is. Its a
cute story with a good moral. Id rather my daughter see more
technically "sub-par" movies with a good message than a slick vapid
movie with no message other than looking cute.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand this movie was made with a demographic of toddlers in
mind. But that doesn't withhold it from being judged. First off, about
90% of all dialog does not match the character's mouths as the speak.
There's dozens of times where characters talk and their mouth isn't
even moving. Not only that, but the script is an atrocity. A lot, and I
mean, a lot, of the dialog makes no sense.

Second, There's a missing scene at the climax of the movie. **Spoilers.

At about 55 minutes and 30 seconds in, the group of nerds (Without*
Dixie, the main character) go to Wire's backyard to look at the zombie
they captured. Then suddenly, Dixie appears with her crush, *out of no
where. Within 3 seconds, she just simply appears. No given reason, no
introduction. One of the nerds suddenly pulls out some photos from thin
air, then accuses Dixie of kissing the captured zombie. (Which when
that happened in the movie, it was in private. The movie never shows
that the nerds saw her at that moment. Then all of the sudden, for the
sake of plot, they know everything.) Its a complete mess. For God's
sake. Its the pinnacle of the movie. The climax. Where everything peeks
and tension arises. Its the most crucial part of every movie. 

Its as though, half way through the development of this movie, the
producers realized what a steaming pile of dung the movie was, so they
just said, "Hey. Who cares. Throw some random scenes together and. Bam.
There's our climax. Cut and print."

I will never watch this movie again. Not for a million dollars.
