
The script is laughable and the acting (often voice-over), too. The 3D
sex is well marketed. And yes, during certain scenes people got up and
left. Yet. The film doesn't argue to be anything beyond a meandering
stroll into the gallows melancholy. And it does this very very well.
The film features no highbrow intellectual conversations but instead,
favors the same lines you've probably slung at your lovers. Again and
again and again. Just like the sex you've had with your lovers again
and again and again. You know their bodies and you know how to please
them and above all, you know how to hurt them. Sorrow. There's a
resplendent simplicity here that hypnotizes the viewer.

You hear music banging inside the club, yet the lovers are outside in
halflight. Having sex, obviously. This is a good image of what this
film surprisingly achieves best: intimacy. And it fights for that with
it's magnificent camera-work and editing.

But what would this review be if it didn't talk about the 3D sex? Love
and cinema are inseparable. Love stories are why you stick glued to a
chair for a couple of hours. Raw sex is part of love, yet, films used
to cut to birds necking after a kiss. Then it became steamy windows.
Signs, metaphors, analogies, semiotic nausea. And here, Noé takes that
away which makes the film even coarser, and ultimately more brutal.

I wanted to write this review because the whole marketing ("finally a
love story restricted for -16) and shock value (an eye-rolling warning
in the opening credits) have cheapened what this film has achieved and
I encourage viewers to look beyond.
<|_=00=_|>
I have nothing against sex. I love it, I love watching it but this was
painful. The sex was hot but the story and the acting was terrible. I
think it was not worth it and very very long. I can see what the
director was trying to do but he missed the mark. For the same kind of
story with the sex dial down and the story dial up I would suggest The
Dreamers. This story could be told in about 30 min, add maybe 30 min to
get invested in the characters and that would be good. 2h is way to
long for this and 5 min sex scene every 10 min is too much. Like the
title says. Watch porn it will be more fulfilling.

Now for the actual review. The plot is simple. It is a guy reflecting
on a past relationship. The guy is a little to dysfunctional to be in a
healthy one but it is not extreme. The only real question you have
during the movie does not get answered and that is about it. I would
not recommend this to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
No one was able to walk out of the theater this evening as the director
Gaspar Noe was in the audience. I'm certain he took note of folks
laughing at scenes meant to have profound emotional impact, like the
entire ending. 

Little character development with the main character's 17 yr old wife,
or 18, they had sex when she was 16, nothing more than a prop. Their
child, the unintended creation of a broken condom, is named "Gaspar".
The wife is an orphan of sorts, unwanted by her mother but somehow has
the cash and wherewithall to rent an apt in Paris and do nothing more
than go clubbing, listen to her iPod and bang strangers. 

Profoundly self-indulgent about lost love, but hard to take seriously
when the lost love happens between supposed college students (we never
see the college, college books or a single classmate) living and
partying in Paris, none of whom even are even remotely worth caring
about. Except perhaps the teenage wife, after she gives birth, but
again her only role is to get banged, have a kid and though otherwise
absolutely gorgeous, kind and loving as only a supermodel with minimal
lines can be, this one only serves to annoy the hell out of the main
character. 

Reminded me of Brown Bunny, but that was a film with guts. This is just
an excuse to film cumshots in 3D, wrapped around a plot that never went
anywhere with no sense of finality or a hint of revelation or
completion. In fact, the movie had to flash a massive THE END for the
audience to know the film was over.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a point when the main character and voice-over narrator on Love
says that he never sees a movie presenting "emotional sexuality". Sex,
semen and blood, that's what people would like to see. Murphy is a
filmmaker, or so he says. Actually, I think he is just a puppet to
Gaspar Noé intents in this too stereotyped film that had the big
ambition to be innovative.

Love has been creating some noisy around the world, and has been like
that since its premiere during Cannes. Explicit sex and love scenes on
3D, that is how the movie has been known mostly. Despite the bad
reviews, I thought it would be at least interesting. It wasn't, at all.

Before the first scene, there's a sign announcing the moment to put the
3D glasses on. And so the terrible nonsense begins. At the very begin
I've already realized this movie is just noisy. The sex is explicit and
so, so boring, that I was begging to the characters to finish their
business as soon as possible. 

What was announced as innovative, is just a bunch of clichés put
together. It is filmmaking in its worse. Gaspar Noe thinks he knows so
much, and that he is above the other mere mortals. His condescending
arrogance is staggering, actually. I imagine him thinking: this world
is so mediocre, full of prude hypocrites, I'll show them how it's done
and make a movie about excruciating love and sex. So he started to
write it and finally realized it wouldn't be so easy. To talk about
life, and love, and sex it is necessary to be really alive, and not
just criticizing the other's ways from outside. Unable to write a true
love sexy story, he decided then to check every box that came to his
mind relating to sex: explicit scenes, close on dicks, threesome, sex
clubs, homosexual sex, trannies, public sex and so on. As if a close on
a ejaculating dick would be the quintessence of a revolutionary speech.
There's a bunch of unrelated scenes, as if the awful voice-over could
succeed in giving them some meaning. 

An example: at one scene, the couple are lying on bed after sex, and
from nothing, the guy asks the girl about her biggest fantasy. Sexual?
she replies. Of course, he says. And she tells him how that she would
like have sex with him and a third woman, a blond with blue eyes. The
next day or so, they are getting their mail when they meet the new
neighbor: a sixteen blue eyed blond that are living next door. After
the badly filmed threesome, the guy says: thanks for Europe! (a place
where eh would have a three way sex with a minor). Did you get the
image? So.

Gaspar Noé, by his main character, affirms that there's not sexual love
stories on the screen. I think he never saw any of Bernardo
Bertolucci's movies. Or the Spanish/French production Sex and Lucía, a
beautiful story about love with stunning and heartfelt sex scenes (Paz
Vega is incredible). Or even Betty Blue, for everybody's sake. Or even
9 Songs - even with all the bad reviews, this one is actually honest.
Sorry the rage, but it is inevitable. Noé should look better around
him, or, even better, he should head to the DVD section on a store and
just see how wrong he is. 

I've read how the acting here is terrible, and it is a fact. The actors
are not even able to walk naturally (it is so staged that hurts), let
alone show deep feelings or have real sex. And despite what has been
said, I don't think it is difficult to find good actors that would
accept to be a part of this project if it was a good one. At least his
protagonist should have been more endearing - even if I'm not sure that
it would have saved this doomed story anyway. Because the problem here
is not just the bad acting, the lousy dialogues, the incredibly lousy
and staged sex scenes. The main trouble in this movie is the sexist,
arrogant, wrongful view about the world and people. And when a
filmmaker start this way, there's nothing that can save him from the
impending doom. 

People were leaving the theater constantly, they were dropping like
flies. However, rather than doing that by how explicit the sex is, I
think people did leave for the sole reason of how bad is this movie.
It's unbearable in fact. And we see no end to it, two hours and fifteen
minutes of sheer bad filmmaking. Not could be more far from deep
emotion, an intense love story and visceral sex. 

(First published at
http://onemovieadaywithamelie.blogspot.com.br/2015/09/day-190-love-
september15.html
<|_=00=_|>
'Love' will most likely be discredited by many due to it's sheer
honesty, like many films of it's kind are. Yet this honesty, as brutal
and daring as it might seem, feels necessary to connect with and
understand what the characters are going through, on an entirely new
emotional level. In the words of Murphy, Gaspar Noe might have made the
only movie that truly depicts 'sentimental sexuality'. 

'Love' has many subtle and not-so-subtle references to the underlying
story and to the director himself. Gaspar's mother is named Nora
Murphy, while Murphy's son is named Gaspar and Electra's ex boyfriend -
Noe. His favorite movie is Kubrick's '2001', while hers is Lang's 'M',
both of which seem to fuel Murphy and Electra's behavior throughout the
movie, where Murphy is often aimlessly overwhelmed with hope and
desire, while Electra seems unable to forgive.

Gaspar Noe constantly cuts through the past and the future, using the
techniques he is so familiar with since Irreversible. The movie
abruptly switches between various stages of Murphy's and Electra's
relationship, always cutting back to the present, where Murphy's is in
absolute emotional agony and despair, raising a child with Clara. 

At times Murphy and Electra are so deeply engrained in one another that
their fights and dialogues seem outright comical and immature, as if we
are observing a 16 year- old couple. But this is truly where 'Love'
stands out. Being in love feels and looks exactly like this, it's raw,
emotional and brutal yet foggy and sweet; when no one else exists or
matters.

In one of Electra's and Murphy's conversations they talk about the sad
reality that they are going nowhere and dragging each other down, they
discuss taking a break. It is an extremely sad and emotional scene,
where the thought itself brings so much fear into them, that they
simply end up holding each other even tighter.

The script for 'Love' is only 7 pages long. It is full of beautiful and
weird dialogues and extremely emotional, 'free-played' graphic scenes.
These scenes however are not there to impress the viewer or open the
doors to the unknown. This is also not a nymphomaniac-like sexual
exploration. Gaspar Noe does a masterful job in showing us the true
emotional aspect of love, in it's raw and relatable form, sex.

The sound-score is stunning, with the music gradually changing
depending on the mood and the context of the scenes. Even though a lot
of times it seems like we are watching the same people 'fuck' in the
same positions, different context, feelings and music make each of
these scenes truly unique and mesmerizing on it's own. 

Noe also does a wonderful job in his minimalistic depiction of the
story and the scenery. Murphy and Electra always wear contrasting
colors, while the background is usually very simple yet fitting to them
both. As if to say that when in love, everything should be seen through
the eyes of the lovers. 

'Love' might sometimes seem silly, overly graphic and way too
sentimental, yet it hits all the right notes.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess I fell for the marketing, and I have to admit the idea behind
the film still seems OK. The 3D effects were good & not overdone. On
the other side: I found the script / plot to be thin, and the acting
and voice overs were terrible. I got the idea this was a movie made by
an American director who was trying to make a 'european' style movie
but didn't succeed. Afterwards I read the director is French (born in
south America).

The movie lasts more than 2 hours, but there is no suspense, no
buildup, etc. Karl Glusman (the lead actor) is not credible in this
role, the emotions don't seem real and his voice-overs are even worse.
His character begin a 'movie director' or something of the kind seems
almost irrelevant and implausible.

After an hour, the movie started getting tedious as it was obvious this
'wasn't going anywhere'. I don't recommend seeing it, unless you're
only interested in the raw sex in 3D (but remember... it's more than 2
hours you have to sit through).
<|_=00=_|>
Contains some of the hottest sex scenes ever filmed, thanks to the
combination of plausible courtship scenes, character development, and
graphic (at least partially non-simulated) sex. Many of the sex scenes
are beautiful to the point you become aware of the cinematography,
though I did not feel aware of the acting at any point. 

A lot of the melodrama could have been edited out without impacting the
plot whatsoever, not to mention some parts that are downright abusive
to the viewer with blinding flashing lights, and, I suspect, some cheap
abuse of 3D effects (I saw it in 2D), but then again this movie
probably couldn't exist without giving the director a ton of editorial
freedom. 

IMHO this is a must-see if you care at all about eroticism in film.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just come back from the UK Premier, I can honestly say, that was
quite simply appalling. Only Kill Your Friends is a worse film of 2015.

I absolutely loved Enter the Void with a passion, the poster has been
my iPhone screen saver ever since. It was slick, stylish, sexy and
trippy.

Love, however fails to deliver on so many levels. I get what the
director was trying to achieve here, but it just doesn't work due to
the appalling acting from the very unlikable main character. Where on
earth did they get him from? Was he the only actor who was willing to
show his erect cock on the cinema screen? His lines are delivered with
such a flat misanthropic moribund tone that you can't believe anything
he says. The voice over just adds to the car crash. Its a film which
lacks any real emotion or chemistry.

If you want to watch a gritty film with real emotions watch Blue is the
Warmest Colour and 9 Songs. 

Caspar Noe, you have let us done badly here. Go back to making in your
face trippy films.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is literally a 90 minute porno hiding behind a 2 hour art
film. Everything about it is bad. The editing is horrific, every single
shot is separated by a half second of a pure black screen. The script
is bad. BAAAD. No one has anything resembling a likable personality,
there is no plot, the dialogue is stupid at best. The acting... well,
these people weren't hired for their acting talent. They were hired
because they were willing to get naked and have unsimulated sex on
film. This film shows random sex scenes every chance it can. Also it's
homophobic and transphobic, there is a scene played totally for laughs
where the main guy freaks out over a transgendered woman. OH and if
you're an epileptic, avoid this because the director seems to enjoy
giving people seizures with random flashing lights.

Literally the only thing about this that's in any way well done is the
sex, and you can see better sex in actual porn films. Just go rent a
porno, you'll get more enjoyment out of it and you won't have to deal
with this horribly made 'film'.
<|_=00=_|>
Love, as it is titled, should be called Bored Whiny Man Child. This
dirge clocks in at a whopping 2 hours and 15 minutes. I had to stop,
walk away for a while and then return to watch this sniffling character
act out his hypocrisy in such myopic detail. The relationship between
the two principal characters is like oil and water. The only thing they
share is a voracious appetite for sex, lots and lots of sex. The add a
third person into the mix who winds up getting pregnant by the guy
which leads to the main couple breaking up. Since they all were in a
ménage à trois, that shouldn't have been an issue but it was. The
female leaves him and we spend the rest of the film exploring his
memories of her and him having more sex. They participate in orgies and
he gets mad because she's having sex with other guys. He can had fun
but she can't. If your life is nothing but the sex, why should that
matter especially if he can participate and she can't? And there lies
the quagmire with this presentation. This guy is totally immature. You
become bored with him and with him having sex. Closeups of him with his
exploding orgasms weren't shocking, innovative, wanted or move the
picture along. After a while, you just want this story to just wrap up.
You wonder what is the point? There is nothing redeeming about it. The
other female character who has had his child is completely ignored. She
is just another prop instead of exploring that dynamic of how they are
dealing with a child together. Instead, we find his character crying in
the bathtub with the toddler. And you have to ask yourself once again,
the time he and his old girlfriend were together appears to be at least
three years because you have to factor in the time the girl was
pregnant and then you jump in time to see a toddler at least two years
old. So why did his old girlfriend/s mother call him about her and why
did he just started thinking about someone who hasn't been in his life
for a long time? The writing was just poor. This guy was suppose to be
some aspiring filmmaker. He is neither aspiring or making films and
filming your naked girlfriend on a small video camera doesn't qualify
you one bit. That aspect of the character was totally ignored as well.
This was just bad. If you want to see if because of the unsimulated sex
scenes, I would advise just watch some 5 minute porn clip and avoid
this colossus time waster.
