
This reboot is by far one of the worst I have seen. I grew up in the
90s and my love for power Rangers was dear. If you are an original fan
please DO NOT watch. The film was sexualized and at times a little
disturbing. This remake is for a whole new generation. If this is what
we are producing for the next generation then this is unsettling. The
audience In the movie seemed to enjoy this movie but as an original fan
I had to walk out half way. The actors performed more on a chessy, no
acting skills level. The villain was a tormented individual with no
talent. Zordon was completely different, more of an aggressive angry
frustrated personality. That alone made me walk out, original Zordon
was patient, wise, and kind. I believe we got 15 minutes of fighting if
that in this 2 hour movie. Everything that was once positive about the
series, was completely missing in the movie. Sad to say, the new Power
Rangers movie was a disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
Power Rangers is an atrocious movie with a poorly developed plot and an
disinterested cast. I did not have high expectations for this film, but
I was a fan of the television series as a child and thought it would be
a fun tribute. Instead of that, it takes what made the Power Rangers a
hit in the late nineties and forcefully updates it for today's
standards, taking itself far too seriously for such a ridiculous
property. 

The majority of the cast are uninspired, clearly only there for a pay
check. The Rangers, with the exception of RJ Cyler and Ludi Lin, seem
to have no desire or ambition to act. The more A list cast do not shine
either, Elizabeth Banks is far too sweet and attractive to thrill us as
the lead antagonist, while Bryan Cranston just seemed out of place,
which was a shame, as he could do so much better. 

For an action film, it is not very exciting. It takes up far too much
time setting up the Rangers, followed by about twenty minutes of poor
action sequences that are jam packed with CGI and poor one liners. 

I found myself regretting my decision to watch this movie more and more
throughout. Dull and poorly paced, Power Rangers is too serious to be
fun, but not serious enough to be intriguing, I would avoid this one. 

A group of teenagers use new powers that they have been bestowed with
to protect the galaxy. 

Best Performance: RJ Cyler / Worst Performance: Elizabeth Banks
<|_=00=_|>
TL;DR - Slow, boring, not entertaining, Fant4stic was better. 

I followed this movie around the time it was first announced and even
partook in the boards and seeing all the news and leaks about the
movie. I was not too fond of certain things about this movie especially
certain casting as I felt it wouldn't fit. I honestly really wanted to
enjoy this movie but when the trailer hit I had a bad feeling and
should have stuck to it. 

My friend dragged me to go watch it with him and I hated almost every
minute. After reading mixed reviews the ones that resonated with me are
the ones that shared my same opinions. 

The movie lacked good comedy, needed to improve on action. It dragged
and dragged with these poorly acted characters and mundane character
development for our protagonists. The only fun character was Rita.
Elizabeth Banks did a great job making that character hers and making
her feel more menacing than she was in the show. I've only ever liked
her in one other franchise and that was The Hunger Games so to be
honest I am surprised I liked Rita as much.

--- ***SPOILERS BELOW***---

The movie started off good with the ending of a battle scene which
introduced our antagonist and the seriousness of a threat our heroes
will encounter down the road. Rita literally kills the previous Ranger
team and is the ever so loved Green Ranger which was teased and
theorized throughout set photo leaks. This scene and the final Battle
where Rita gets B-chSlapped to the moon was the only entertaining thing
in this whole movie. Everything in between was utterly boring. You will
seriously have a more fun time watching the Ghostbusters Remake or the
Fant4stic reboot.
<|_=00=_|>
just got back from seeing POWER RANGERS MOVIE with kids. I guess I
should have been suspicious that the theater was virtually empty on the
first day of Spring Back as to how bad this film is. people are
steering clear of this trash. it's not that the film was awful due to
production standards... the movie was bad due to the negative messages
it sent. this is a kids' movie mind you... where to even start? 1)
within the first 7 minutes, it is discussed that one boy milked a
"cow", not realizing it was a "single-udder bull" - explain that to
your kids. 2) one of the "hero" characters steals two vehicles in the
film, leads police on high-speed chases, and destroys both vehicles
(NOT while he is trying to save lives... he is literally running from
the law because he committed crimes). 3) the same character (a hero)
mentioned in #2 is sentenced to an electronic tether house- arrest. he
tricks an autistic boy to hotwire the electronic tether so he can go
wherever he wants. 4) in stealing one of the vehicles, the 5 main kid
characters attempt to beat a speeding train - NEVER NEVER EVER SHOW
THIS IN A KIDS' MOVIE!!! NEVER!!! and of course, they fail - all dying
- then miraculously are alive the next day. 5) all five main kid "hero"
characters (16 / 17 years old) enjoy beers while having a campfire -
AFTER they have been informed that they will be the ones to save the
planet because of their "pure" hearts. 6) the film LITERALLY tells us
"Being different is good, being 'normal' is bad"... they don't say
"it's okay to be different", they say the first line I typed.
literally. this is the dialog. well, since EVERYONE is different, and
we all know that... then what is "normal"? is normal obeying laws? is
normal listening to your parents? according to the film, being "normal"
(which they tell us is bad) is having a job, obeying the law, worrying
about your own safety, and not caring about anybody else. 7) EVERY
swear word imaginable is used in this film except the F-bomb. 8)
finally - TWO other messages are LITERALLY spoken in the film. #1 is -
"Forget about all the bad things you have done in your life and just
move on". um... wait... don't you have to make amends for those bad
things? just move on? like cutting off your tether? taking advantage of
a gifted autistic person? stealing vehicles? #2 is - "You five kids
have the purest hearts on Earth, that is why the power has chosen
you"... again... wait... so, the kids that have the WORST track record
of kids on the ENTIRE PLANET have the "purest hearts"? so... the rest
of the population is all bad or "normal" as they tell us? parents: DO
NOT waste your time or money taking your kids to see this monstrous
garbage film. you'll have too much explaining to do when it's done.
they've taken a children's show and have perverted it to send all the
worst messages.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is boring, poorly written, and stupid. It's not stupid in a
fun way, either. 

I went into this movie with expectations that I would have for a
Transformers movie; I hoped for explosions, fun action scenes, and cool
CGI. Guess what this movie had? NONE OF THAT. Because it was so boring,
I was forced to sit through boring scenes of people talking about
boring back stories.

This movie suffered from the same problems that Superman v Batman and
Suicide Squad suffered from: they tried so hard to fit so much stuff
in, that the pacing is terrible and nothing feels like it goes
together. The whole movie is very forgettable except one scene...
(Spoilers, kinda)

The opening scene, when the Red Ranger (who's character name I can't
remember and can't be bothered to go back and look) gets into a car
chase with the police after pulling a prank at the high school. The
cinematography and camera-work is fantastic and really got my hopes
very high for the rest of the movie. It's reminiscent of the tank scene
from Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. It's a little difficult to pay
attention to everything that's going on, but at least it looks cool and
keeps you engaged, UNLIKE THE REST OF THE MOVIE. 

Overall, I would say that no matter what reviews people read, they're
going to see it no matter what. Also, (spoilers again) when they
finally morph into the animal robots (I never watched the show much, so
maybe I just don't get it) they play the original theme song from the
show for no reason other than to force nostalgia. 

At least the original show, from what I did see, was campy and fun.
This movie can't decide if it wants to be serious or funny (just like
Suicide Squad). Come to think of it, this movie has a lot of
similarities to Suicide Squad, except with Suicide Squad, it had more
than THREE ACTION SCENES IN THE WHOLE MOVIE. 

This is a bad movie. Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had formerly written a review for Power Rangers which was really
shallow.But now,due to the IMDb rating dropping
uncharacteristically,I'm writing a new review to essentially negate the
trashers and the naysayers.This movie is awesome,and I stand by my
words,that's not saying the movie is not without its problems which I
will address further on,but none of them drag down the awesomeness
factor of Power Rangers.On with the review

I love Power Rangers,I've stuck on with the franchise even in its worst
years like any other fan,sometimes I wondered whether I should even be
liking Power Rangers because as much as knew how much this franchise
means to me,I will not hide the fact that the shows are unbelievably
cheesy even by kids show standards,the production values are
laughable(At least until Time Force),the acting is terrible,and the
producers of the TV show just don't seem to care(ahem Super Megaforce
ahem!),AAND I'm 18,I should watch prime time dramas instead of this
nonsense right!Anyways,When I saw the teaser,my balls were blown
off!This is your take on a franchise about 5 teenagers in spandex
kicking rubber suited monsters in archived Japanese Footage!Shut up and
take my money!When I saw the trailer and arrived at the Zords part,I'll
be honest with you,I was thrown off immediately.But I wanted to give
this a chance,I did,and I kid you not when I say that Power Rangers
blows every Robot movie or Kaiju movie I have ever seen out of the
water(Transformers franchise and Pacific Rim).The characters in this
movie,the Power Rangers,Zordon,Alpha 5,Rita Repulsa everybody turns in
great performances.The Power Rangers themselves are relatable unlike
the saccharine heavy do gooders from Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers!Mind
you,the action setpieces are in the third part of the movie(The
Rangers,the Zords,The Megazord),but they are awesome,worth the
wait,make sense unlike the Transformers movies where I don't understand
what the f**k is happening,and feel earned as these teenagers
Jason,Billy,Kimberly,Trini and Zack 'connect with each other',face
adversities together and finally are willing to die for each other!The
Character development in this movie is something even Marvel Movies
haven't managed to nail,and if you hate the movie because it didn't
have nonsensical action,well screw you!

Jason/The Red Ranger- The Leader of the team and a Star football
player(Centre Quarterback),Jason has some serious daddy issues but is
by no means a bad guy.After a failed prank involving a cow,Jason is
sent into detention with 'Weirdos and Criminals'.Jason is
angsty,brash,rushes things and reckless but each in ways that make him
feel relatable,but as the film progresses,we see Jason grow beyond his
angry self and become a more level- headed,caring leader 

Kimberly/The Pink Ranger- The 'Mean Girl' of the team,Kimberly is
someone whose bad books you DO NOT want to be in!She knocks a guy's
tooth out when he calls her the 'Meanest Girl' he had ever met!The
realization of her actions ultimately makes her a better person and she
bonds with the team!

Zack/The Black Ranger- The Crazy guy of the team,Zack is unfortunately
the least developed character in the team.His story involves his sick
mother whom he is scared of finding her dead one day.

Billy/The Blue Ranger- The most beautifully written character in movie
history which if not well handled could have ended up becoming a
joke!Billy is on the spectrum.He will make you laugh,cry and just feel
happy!

Trini/The Yellow Ranger- Aah,the first LGBT superhero in movie
history,which created sort of a controversy,this is another well
written character in the movie.Trini is very personable and you will
sympethize with her!

Well,that ends the Power Rangers character descriptions.There are
Zordon,Rita,and Alpha-5 but I have to prevent this from being a long
ass review which it already is!And besides,they are really good
characters!

Power Rangers went up against a juggernaut of a movie,Beauty and the
Beast and it saddens me that a cashgrab with absolutely no heart earned
a billion dollars while Power Rangers reeled under its shadows.

Bottomline-This movie rocks,period!
<|_=00=_|>
Before reading there may be small spoiler ...

I was a fan of the series for years, and I still find the best the
first generation, for this movie I was very anxious, and now that I saw
it, I can say that I do not exceed my expectations, the action scenes a
bit slow, very Melosa the movie at times, and frankly hoped a bit more
cliché, but in short you have to talk about the good thing now, the
soundtrack pretty good, in fact the listen although for a few seconds
that classic electric guitar of the 90 I get excited , Effects and
designs of suits and zord very good except for the megazord, and it is
necessary to emphasize something, that is the suspense, they play with
the fan that knows by memory that will happen but they play with it
when, despite everything a promising start I hope there is A sequel
since there were things pending, here is a diamond in the rough, maybe
with a better creative team can get a good saga, maybe it will not be
at the level of matrix, godfather, Lord of the rings, but if you can Be
better than the saga of Transformers and harry potter.

traslated from Spanish with google
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with zero expectations. I only watched Power
Rangers a little bit when was younger and was never really into it,
but, I got to say I was pleasantly surprised with this movie. I loved
it, I think everyone involved did a very good job. There was a good mix
of comedy, action, drama and even some sentimental moments. 

The actors all fit into their roles very well and some of them even
surprised me. The cast had some well known actors/actresses such as
Elizabeth Banks, Bill Vader and Bryan Cranston who all did very well in
their roles. There was also a very good mix of new faces mixed in with
Dacre Montgomery (who will be starring in season 2 of Stranger Things
later this year.) Ludi Lin who was a very pleasant surprise. I have
never heard of him before going to see this movie and now he is someone
I am going to look out for in the future. Like probably most of you I
have only heard some of Becky G's music but have never really given Her
a second thought. When I heard she was going to be a main character in
this movie I was a bit hesitant about it. I have never been happier to
be proved wrong.She played the role of Trini perfectly and made her
character someone that, I think, a lot of people can relate to. Naomi
Scott as Kimberly was perfect casting. I loved her in Lemonade Mouth
when I was younger so I was excited when I heard that she was cast in
Power Rangers. She played the role of Kimberly very well and I
definitely will be looking for her more in the future. Everyone did
very well in their roles but to me, and I'm sure a lot of you, RJ Cyler
stole the show. His portrayal of Billy was perfect. Billy was a very
important character being the first superhero to be on the autism
spectrum and RJ Cyler absolutely nailed it.

Something that I personally am not a fan of in movies is a lot of CGI
but, I got to say this movie pulled it off. It wasn't cheesy and went
with the movie very well. I also have to mention the soundtrack in the
film. every song fit the moment perfectly and added that extra bit to
the movie. 

This movie was about all the characters becoming the Power Rangers and
evolving. It takes a long time before they actually become the Power
Rangers. The reason for doing this is to show how all of the characters
develop throughout the movie which I think was a very dog move. Every
character develops really well personally as well as a group. I really
hope there is a sequel as the end set it up perfectly. At the end of
this movie it shows the teacher at detention introduce a new character,
Tommy. Introducing this character would be a good fit for the next
movie (if there is one.) If they do decide to do another movie we will
be able to see the rangers more experienced and, if they do decide to
make Tommy a ranger, we can see how they adjust to the new addition.
<|_=00=_|>
There are few spoilers, but also keep in mind this movie also
plagiarized off another project. This movie is not only awful, but many
across the world are now realizing this movie plagiarized off a online
global hit short story, known as Corporate Red, The Forgotten Ranger.
Created by Terrell Quentin Rogers during his teen years, for the three
straight years the short story has been an online hit and caught huge
interest from both Power Ranger and even Marvel fans. A producer from
Lionsgate Films met with Terrell Quentin Rogers in interest of his
script. During his speech last night at a screening for PR-reboot Haim
Saban said Lionsgate Films presented him with a separate story. Saban
then says that same story ended up not being used for the film, and
that it was a separate story and with some knowing the insider of the
story laughing in the audience. However its no longer a laughing matter
as people are now waking up and realizing that both Lionsgate Films and
Haim Saban did steal ideas from TQR's online global hit short story.
Several ideas from Corporate Red are noticeable in the PR-reboot. Red
Ranger being shorter than some of the rangers. Corporate Red is shorter
than four ranger (Green, Lavender, White and Gold). Rita is equivalent
of Corporate Green. Both Red and Blue are a combination of Corporate
Red. Pink Ranger re-boot mean persona plagiarized off Corporate Pink.
Yellow Ranger being lesbian equivalent to a script TQR shared with
multiple producers including a Lionsgate producer of Green and Lavender
being lesbian. If you hate seeing people's ideas stolen, do not see
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
You know when I was 12 years old, I saw power rangers, I thought the
first 2 seasons (1993-95) represent splendid action, suspense and real
characters, but once season 3 came it all went downhill and this movie
is another example at how jumped the shark the power rangers franchise
has become, the performances are awful, the story is completely and
absolutely confusing, the screenplay is a mess and the editing is a
trainwreck, now I love bryan Cranston he's always been a wonderful
actor, but he is truly wasted in this one as zordon, a man who help 5
teens with their magical powers and their customs to save angel grove
from monsters and the evil rita repulsa (played terribly by Elizabeth
banks) and other nonsense, this is just a pathetic and useless attempt
to revive the power rangers franchise, it is just awful, this is one of
the year's worst films, no offense to my friend who is a power rangers
fan, but this movie stinks.
