
I watched this in the theatre with about 7 other people, it was a
spiritual experience. It was really nice to see the struggles people go
through and overcome, and how God on occasion picks you up and walks
you past the point where you would fail.

It also just instilled in me a view of the Church as it ought to be,
without walls. There was a horror flick a couple doors down, with
people waiting to get in. I think that if they had watched this
instead, they would have had a memorable night, and left with more love
and a stronger bond towards their brothers and sisters on earth,
instead of weaker one.

It's nice to see light amid the darkness. Hopefully the right person
will walk into the theatre to check it out, and start their journey on
the path that leads back home.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a documentary that spends a lot of time informing its audience
about the backgrounds of the titled worship group's members, their
faith lives, families and the creative process. But it also gives a
very real sense of what it must be like to see Hillsong United in
concert, albeit without the full spiritual experience, which makes it
worthwhile for fans of the group, praise and/or contemporary Christian
music.

While I was familiar with the group and many of its songs, I did not
know (until after I watched this film, wondered why certain members
weren't in it, and did some rudimentary research) that Hillsong has
multiple worship 'teams' including Hillsong Worship, which is not
represented in the movie (though there is some member and creative
overlap).

From its website, Hillsong United is "Committed to creating a musical
expression that is almost uncomfortable in its uniqueness, our mission
is to write songs that awaken churches and individuals to the fact that
we are redeemed and called into the story of God". It is certainly
evident in watching this documentary that the group is fulfilling its
mission.

There is also a fabulous sequence just 20+ minutes into the movie: a
composite version of "Mighty to Save", which you can find on the
group's Hillsong Movie youtube channel, that's not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is an emotive-styled documentary that follows the members of
the band 'Hillsong United' as they prepare of the biggest concert of
their careers. Sadly, the film has very little drama or conflict. Nor
do I ever feel that anything is ever at stake.

Yes, I understand it's a documentary and the filmmakers we're dependent
on real life for there drama, so I sympathize with their situation, but
they were tying to make a type of documentary that more interesting in
engaging their viewers heart than head, and those type of docos are
reliant upon more tradition fiction style of storytelling to be
successful. This doco has very little drama or internal conflicts nor
did I ever felt anything was at risk.

In very general terms: stories are about people facing the biggest
internal and external problems of there life. They use everything they
have to overcome these problems and become better people in the
process.

This documentary is about people who have both internal and external
conflicts (but don't worry, God will solve it) and use there skills
(well, technically, it's not there skills but God working through them)
and overcome really mild problems and they stay exactly the same as a
results. I'm not saying that there is anything wrong with doing that,
just the act of pray and the action of an Omnipotent God doesn't
translate too well to the visual medium of film.

Also, God doesn't do anything too remarkable in the doco. I'm not here
to debate the existence of God, but you get the feeling that if God
didn't exist everything in the doco would have played out exactly the
same. Nothing that happens the doco that non-Christians haven't already
done without the aid of God.

So, what's the big external problem of the film. Hillsong UNITED has to
play the biggest concert of there careers and things aren't going to
plan. They've had a late night bump-in, running on a few hours sleep
and a couple of songs still need to be finish.... sounds like regular
band stuff. It's drama but nothing so unique or interesting that it
requires to be filmed and retold.

What make things even less dramatic is when you realize they're
probably playing to a very friendly Christian crowd and will overlook
any mistakes.

So from there we go back in time and learn about the origins of the
church and the band. The majority of the doco focuses on the band
members of Hillsong United. So, this is were we come to the other big
problem. All the main character are pretty much the same. With mild
exceptions they have the same backstory, motivations and problems.
Plus, they all give similar types of answers, most of which are "God"
and it never really gets explored past that.

We then learn more about the main band members see them try and record
a new album. They all seem like nice people but they come across being
very 2-dimensional.

The doco has once scene that jumps out and kinds of overshadows
everything else. The head Pastor (Brian Huston) talks about when his
father Frank (ex-head pastor) confessed to him about being a child
molester, and having to fire him. I'm not blaming Brian for the actions
of his father, but I am blaming for him not calling the police. It's
unconscionable conduct. I don't think Hillsong (who produced the film)
really understands how bad this scene plays out.

This is a doco that didn't need to be made. It's not a story that's
desperately needed to be told. It's an expensive promo video for
Hillsong. That's probably not going to convert anyone (No one is
getting past the whole 'not reporting the child molester' subplot).

The doco feels like the equivalent of engaging in polite chit-chat with
a person you meet at a party. They seem happy and nice but they
conversation wares thin towards to end and you know for a fact you have
no desire to ever talk to them again, but you wish them well in life.
<|_=00=_|>
intimate look at the incredible ministry of a few people willing to
humble themselves and their time and their talents to bring
encouragement and hope and happiness to millions. The very personal
interaction with the band members, families, and global fan base keeps
the watcher's attention and begs the question, what am I doing - or can
I do - right now to share a message of love and compassion? I'm pretty
sure the band members are wearing the same outfit(s) for the entire
movie; they live with in- laws/modest homes, and share vehicles - their
attitudes, dress, language - how can one not want them to continue to
share their message and to reach as many people as possible? Watch the
movie with an open heart - it's more about the band members testimony
and journey than about watching a live concert.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so impressed that this group of young adults have dedicated their
lives to bring Christ to a godless society. Their message has reached
so many young people and they have changed lives - giving hope to so
many. If people would only refocus their lives to the only truly
important thing, how great this world would be simply by loving Jesus.
Maybe we lost this message this Christmas season as this country is
separated by the left or the right. What this movie reminds us is that
neither the left or the right provides answers, they come from looking
up. All these young adults want to do is to share the love of Jesus.
Watching this movie was a great way to start 2017 and to look ahead at
strengthening our relationship wit Jesus!
<|_=00=_|>
If your into layers of self patrony then start here. This film seeks to
promote the evangelical church movement to the vulnerable and followers
of Brian Houston. Its a mess of self indulgent close ups, but as far as
using theater and production to symbolize god. This movie seeks to add
to the brainwashing effect that those fanatics in the euphoric
movement, those self absorbed in colour and light and sound fail to see
as literally the worship of HILLSONG itself. As such it would be
blasphemous and idolatry in its continual use of light to imply the
actual, literal presence of god, no, it was light, it was angelic
singing, and slick production. Even this movie, with its million dollar
budget is just a mass of mind manipulation through sound and light.
Don't be fooled, it was a bore, has no place in cinema, is hypocritic,
and expect the person who is into this movie to jump up and say
hallelujah while they periscope.
<|_=00=_|>
As a portrayal of hardworking group of musicians working for a church
and depiction of their lives, this one is solid. I never knew when
creating music you first set the tune and then add lyrics to it. The
overall Christian faith - the faith in ones-self as working for god
really exudes through the whole reel. It is like one of the senior
pastors shown said their whole gig is based upon giving its followers a
space of liveliness and they are doing it beautifully as skilled
musicians or in the biblical words as some said to make feel the holy
spirit that moves the earth, to open up people with sounds and
emotions, it was also nice to see they have the right words when they
need them.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just finished watching this, and man I have not felt so warm and
fuzzy inside as a Christian for a long time! Man they sell their
message well, their songs just rock me to my Christian core, but I just
kept feeling it was all kinda staged, not real just somewhat rehearsed,
well you don't have to look to deep into them and the dirt comes to the
surface. What I am trying say here is, they have talent, sing some
powerful stuff, but hey as a Christian knows, it is the best story ever
told (or sold), but we also know many will miss use it, and I think
after finding some things out about them, they are a very believable
package, but fake.

All up a good doco, makes you feel warm and fuzzy, even if you aren't a
believer. Cult? yeah somewhat, but a wealthy one at that. Peace to all.

7/10 for me
