
I'll start by saying this, I know there are some that will claim "He
wasn't going for a traditional scary movie. People that don't like it
just don't understand his perspective." I'm sure that in all of the
conversations they had with Mr. Zombie these points were covered and
clearly they have a much better understanding than anyone else. This
review is for those that have been excited about seeing this because
Rob Zombie's pieces in the past have had that intense shock factor and
were delivered very well. Unfortunately, this one does not. It is kind
of sadistic and if you put yourself in the position of one of these
actors you can imagine it would probably be terrifying. Then again, you
wouldn't use poorly scripted cheesy lines and engage in badly
choreographed fights. Personally, I have been looking forward to this
film since I first heard about it last year and have kept myself up on
the release date so as soon as it was available I could treat myself to
it. I couldn't have been more disappointed. I thoroughly enjoyed his
other films and would watch another if he made it. I realize fanatic
Zombie lovers will disagree with me when I say this but for every one
that like it there will be several that don't. I can't decide which was
worse: the ending or the overall acting. I must give credit where
credit is due, the intro is entertaining and you will probably enjoy
Doom Head (the guy in the opening scene). Again unfortunately, he is in
the movie all of about 10 minutes non-consecutively. Had the movie
centered around him and a twisted hunting obsession perhaps I would be
writing a very different review. The acting is over-the-top and awful.
Not in the same way that some movies are so bad they're good (like
Zombeavers or Axe Giant) but more like super low budget projects filmed
on an iPhone. For a movie that has reasonably good quality in most
scenes I was so let down to see the acting was so unrefined. It
probably could have been worse, I'm just not sure how.
<|_=00=_|>
To start off, I have loved previous Zombie films. House of 1000 Corpses
and Devils Rejects were at one point two of my favorite films. With
that said, this film is just bad. I just came from the Fathom Events
and was so disappointed by this movie I opened this account just to
write this review. There are numerous things this movie lacks and going
into this film I did not expect a masterpiece, but instead good ol
bloody fun. Sadly, the blood could not save this film.

We find ourselves with a simple plot revolving 5 individuals forced to
play a game called "31". They must fight to survive the night and win
the game. The killers have a clown based appearance making for what
appears to be a fun ride.

After the premise is revealed the film immediately goes down hill. To
start off no character development is really made with both the
survivors or villains of the movie. When the killings begin we feel
indifferent to who lives or dies. When the deaths do occur, they are
disappointing especially in comparison to Zombie's past. By this I
mean, most of the kills are done by stabbings, which either cut to
black, or show minimal damage. I'm not saying the lack of gore is what
makes this movie bad, but I figured it would be Zombie's scape goat if
anything. Unfortunately the movie progresses with no real development
of plot and ends with what appears to be a copy of a scene found within
other Zombie films. Which normally would be a cool throwback, but in
this case seemed lazy.

From here I could go on about the issues with this movie, but ill just
bullet point them.

- The editing seemed as if a fan of Zombie's film had made this.
Overuse of "vintage" effects just became detrimental. 

- The killers lacked any real character. It's as if he thought "Killer
clowns are scary, enough said". So with that said the killers are just
that, new clowns in different "Weird attire".

- The killers lack any power. As the film nears its remaining 30
minutes, we see the heroes plow through "killers" like nothing.It's as
if everyone was on the same playing field and this was just a brawl.

- With such a simple premise of "Killer clowns" most would immediately
assume the setting is going to be a carnival or something related.
Instead we are introduced to the characters in a great looking carnival
Esq setting in the very beginning, then the film immediately places all
the characters in the most clichéd looking "pipe room" that is
completely gray and dark. I assume this was due to budget constraints,
but then why the lavish room to simply introduce the characters? This
poor use of setting is later seen in a room that is shown which looks
like a typical mini circus tent but is actually a cage. This room was
only used for a few minutes on screen and completely abandoned after.
Returning all characters to the pipe room.

- The acting was poor. Like just scare actor at your local Halloween
attraction bad. That goes for both heroes and villains. The only one
who had evident talent Meg Foster. Her performance was brilliant with
the material she had.

FINAL THING. After the movie there was a "Q&A From Rob Zombie". The
first question was "What inspired you to make this film?" His answer
was "Well , I was working on a movie that got stuck in production hell
so I called up my team and told them ' I can pitch you the dumbest
simple idea that will make money right now in 30 seconds" "Its
Halloween... uh people get kidnapped....uh clowns kill them. boom
that'll make money." This was the moment I was not only disappointed in
the movie but Rob Zombie himself. This man practically had the audience
sit through a poor excuse of a movie THEN had the nerve to basically
include a feature that tells them they were dumb for falling for it. 

All said and done, if you like Rob's past movies just avoid this one.
Trust me, it will shine a light on the idea that maybe Rob never had
any talent, but instead used the same tricks until they got old.
<|_=00=_|>
to be expected from Rob Zombie, not the best dialogue in the world,
unlikable protagonists you want to die, Sheri moon zombie trying and
the feeling of wishing he would get to the point. i loved 'House of
1000 corpses' & 'Devil's rejects' is one of my favorite horror films of
all time. The only other of Zombie's films that even touches on those
films in my opinion is 'Halloween' with the plot of killer clowns
playing a totally crazy game of cat and mouse i thought such a simple
story arc would be fun and playful horror, But Zombie tries something
that i felt just fell flat on it's face. Almost cringy to watch at
times, Nazi Clown midgets, c'Mon man... Still a strong director but a
terrible writer. This film should be used as evidence to Zombie that he
cannot carry a film on his own, if he hired a couple of writers to
spoon feed him decent characters for his 'plot' then you could
potentially get some decent horror movies. or at least seem satisfying
dialogue. or maybe he should just stick to making the antagonist the
main point of view, that way the script makes sense. over all, was
looking forward to a night of madness , in stead got a student film on
crack shot in a sweatshop.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976, on the eve of Halloween, an itinerant troupe is forced to stop
their truck and attacked by strangers. Charly (Sheri Moon Zombie),
Venus Virgo (Meg Foster), Panda Thomas (Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs), Levon
Wally (Kevin Jackson) and Roscoe Pepper (Jeff Daniel Phillips) survive.
They are forced to participate in a sadistic game called "31" for 12
hours, and whoever survives will be released. Soon they are attacked by
sadistic killers dressed like clowns. Will someone survive to the "31"?

"31" is an unoriginal pointless awful slasher with an absurd and stupid
story. The greatest challenge is not for the group forced to
participate, but for the viewer to see this film until the very end.
The only thing good to see is the veteran cast with Malcolm McDowell,
Judy Geeson ("To Sir with Love") and Meg Foster ("They Live").
Unfortunately they are wasted in a poor story and screenplay. It is
better off watching "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" again. My vote is
two.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
31 (2016) directed by Rob Zombie is about a group of five carnival
workers who are kidnapped and held hostage in an abandoned, hell-like
compound where they are forced to participate in a violent game, the
goal of which is to survive twelve hours against a gang of sadistic
clowns.

This being Zombie's sixth full length feature film, it feels like much
of the same. same visual style, same vulgar dialogue, same vintage
camera filters, and the same lead actress that we are all tired of
seeing. it's a real shame that Mr. Zombie cant seem to change up his
style and make something fresh, or at least entertaining.

the camera work in 31 (16) is truthfully nothing special, at times
though it is awful. it becomes nausea inducing and there are a lot of
unnecessary close ups. this paired with some of the most annoying and
disorienting editing I have ever seen makes this one a real chore to
watch. the story drags on and on at a snails pace with no tension or
suspense. this is not an exaggeration. there really is no suspense or
tension. the setting had some potential, but due to Zombie's direction
we never really get any sense of urgency or claustrophobia or anything
like that. all the characters are annoying and unlikable and the acting
is just alright, sometimes it really is terrible though. the shock
factor isn't even there on this one. Zombie is known for delivering
some truly brutal visuals but this film seems pretty tame for a Rob
Zombie film.

to conclude my review ill say that 31 (2016) is an awful, boring and
dull film with no substance. there really isn't a singular good reason
I can think of to watch this movie.

the verdict: 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I dig Rob Zombie films. Devils Rejects, the Halloween reboots, Lords of
Salemall personal favorites. So much so that I contributed $150 to the
crowd funding of 31. It was promised to be the movie RZ wanted to make
as well as the movie he thought his fans wanted to see - an
unapologetic and uncompromising slaughter-fest. Well, I finally watched
31 last night and unfortunately it does compromise and it isn't even
much of a slaughter-fest. It's simply another
"we-kidnapped-some-innocent-people-for-the-purpose-of-torturing-them"
retread. And not a very good one at that. I'm bummed.

There are certainly moments that make 31 worth watching. But those
moments just aren't enough to make it a good movie. Much of the
criticism of 31 has been directed at the lack of character development.
My comment to that is "who cares?". This is a movie where I wanted to
sink into my seat and cover my eyes due to the extreme and unrelenting
gore. I wanted to feel like I did when I first saw Dawn of The Dead in
theaters in 1980 - unable to look, but unable to look awayutterly
horrified by images I'd never seen beforewalking out exhilarated, out
of breath, and laughing at myself for being so freaked out by a movie.
If anyone could do it, Rob could. 

Alas, most of 31 is just another quick-cut, shaky-cam exercise that
does manage to force the viewer to look away - just not out of disgust,
but to keep from getting a headache from the excessively annoying
hand-held shots and machine-gun editing. More often than not, you can't
even tell what's going on in the action scenes. There are lots of half
second images of blood- soaked faces, and blood-soaked clothing, and
blood-soaked weaponsbut we can't tell who's getting chopped up and
who's doing the chopping. 

31 opens with a monologue from villainous clown Doom Head. It's a great
scene that draws you in. The idea that he was, of course, going to show
up again by the end of the film was the only thing that kept me from
walking out. He does show up in the final 15 minutes, but it's too
little, too late. It was already to the point where I couldn't care
less what happened to these people and I knew however the inevitable
deaths were played out wasn't going to be anything interesting or
inventive. I was right. In between the opening and closing Doom Head
bookends there is absolutely nothing of interest. A little unsuccessful
character developmentsilly villains that are far too easy for our
heroes to killpompous ringmasters that add nothing and could have been
cut out completelyit all made me want my $150 back.

I assume there will be an unrated version somewhere down the line that
I'll watch and re- evaluate, but I can't imagine it saving this waste
of fake blood and Malcolm McDowells talent. If you want to see an
interesting, scary clown movie try 2014's Clown (he eats children!) if
you want gut-wrenching gore watch the Evil Dead remake again. The only
reason to see 31 is it's an RZ flick and to be properly schooled in
modern horror you need to see all RZ offerings - at least for now. A
few more throwaways like this and Rob will just be another straight to
Netflix hack director.
<|_=00=_|>
As juvenile as calling a grown man "Zombie" this is yet another awkward
embarrassing adolescent amateurish annoying movie from this clueless
guy. His wife at the center of it, yet again making "deranged"
expressions trying to be as sleazy as possible but with the zero talent
of a non-actress,doesn't help it either. Nope, this man can't get it
right even by mere chance. He's still all pose. Like a tribute band of
70's/80's horror movies who get the look (kind of) but can't play worth
a crap. By the time a terrible little man actor dressed as a Nazi/clown
listens to real Hitler speech records was time to turn this garbage of.
You see even the vague feeling that this drivel was in this way
connected to such a terrible event in history was so sad and stupid i
had to quit. Because this exactly what a Rob Zombie movie is , a dwarf
actor dresses as a Nazi made up as a clown to be shocking and bizarre
just for the sake of shocking and bizarre, and the results are of
course pathetic. Oh boy, somewhere there's talented people who can't
find money to produce their movie and this hack has already made 7 or
something like that. Pisses me off.
<|_=00=_|>
It was bad. This movie was the worst Rob Zombie film yet. No plot, no
characterization, disappointing lackluster ending. And nothing we
haven't seen before that's been done a thousand times better in other
films.

It felt like they went dumpster diving in the trash pile of most of
Zombie's films and took whatever edited out bits were laying in the
dumpster to string them together for this steaming turd.

There is no character to root for, there is nothing but a bunch of
aging actors trying to survive this film against other aging actors. In
fact, the scariest part of the film is how badly certain actors have
aged.

While I agree that Richard Brake's performance of Doom Head was very
well done, even he could not save this film.

There's just nothing here. A bunch of aging stoners get kidnapped by
some rich psychos who force them to spend the night trying to survive
against a group of sadistic freaks wearing clown makeup. Everyone gets
killed in various ways with lots of blood, but nothing really felt like
payoff. Every kill was so meh because we've seen it all before and
there was no motivation or characterization to care about. Money was
the sole motive. We're shown that it's just a high paying job to Doom
Head. And the game was just about a money bet for the rich.

But the characters/victims were so badly fleshed out that there was no
reason to care who died. And there was no joy in watching a badly
wrinkled up Meg Foster get brutally murdered. There was no suspense or
anything.

The ending was a very disappointing pile of nothing. They could have
added anything to make it more interesting. Instead, it just sits there
rotting in the sun.

It's not good like Devil's Rejects, House of 1000 Corpses or even
Halloween. This was bad from start to finish. Some people will like it
for the kills, but it's a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no anticipation or information about this movie going in...
except for it being a Rob Zombie movie and my enjoyment of all his
other movies so far. None of them are perfect but none of them are
boring, all of them bring something interesting to the table. Not so
much with 31 though... One thing I've generally liked with Zombie's
movies is that, unlike a lot of horror films such as Hostel - which
promise all sorts of transgressive horrors only to bait and switch with
some relatively tame eyeball gouging, Zombie's movies generally follow
through on their threats. I never feel safe in his movies (except I'm
pretty sure Mrs. Zombie's characters will survive to the final frame).
Unfortunately, 31 let all the air out of that balloon dog for me. It
didn't ever come close to crossing any lines of standardized horror. Oh
sure, Its clown's show up and promise all sorts of vile
entertainments... but they never materialize. Instead, we get some
badly filmed fight scenes and routine kills that could be out of any
war/crime/fantasy film. There's little or no suspense, barely any
atmosphere outside of the clowns' initial entrances and Malcolm
McDowall's nonsensical prattling. The movie takes its time building up
'Doomhead' but what is he but another loudmouthed guy in a clown suit?
I assume he'd go down just as easily to a well-aimed blow to the head.
There's really nothing special about him except for the amount of time
he gets on screen. He even does the loathsome 'golf clap' routine that
should be forever banished to Cliché-land. When the clowns do get their
hands on someone they're not likely do do anything surprising at all...
just stab them and move on. Unless something nastier was edited out of
the version I saw... which I kinda doubt.

The carnies themselves had the potential for being the sort of
interesting protagonists I'd pull for... and I DID like that they
weren't just a bunch of squealing teenagers (Meg Foster especially was
fascinating to look at. Older women like her are so seldom allowed on
screen in heroic roles). But they're mostly reduced to just goofing
around and swearing at each other... maybe it was just bad improv
because the writer couldn't think of what to do with them?

This is BY FAR the least interesting thing I've seen come from Mr.
Zombie. I'm still a fan of his previous films, I'll still watch
whatever he makes next... but this one is the bottom dweller. Not that
it's such a bad generic horror movie, as just that alone it's fairly
average... but it's certainly a bad Rob Zombie horror movie. And being
that, it's pretty disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this on a pirated DVD for 50 rupees. Rob Zombie's The House of
1,000 corpses was good and The Devil's Reject's was better. I was
disappointed by the Halloween remakes. Yet to see Lords of Salem. I was
hoping that 31 might be his best. I was totally wrong. This is a very
boring, unoriginal movie. There is no character development, you really
don't care who kills who or why. The worst was the editing n camera
shots. The quick-cut, shaky-cam gave me a headache. I almost fell
asleep. Couldn't make out what was going on. The movie had excessively
annoying hand-held shots and bad editing. Most of the scenes were shot
in dark. One cannot make out the place or the set up. There was zero
tension. Zero suspense. It was simply not scary at all. Zombie's wife,
Sheri cannot act. I mean she can't even cry or scream properly. The
story was lame. There was no proper explanation given. The ending tried
to be more ambiguous but failed.
