
It seems odd to me that this movie would have received such a low
rating so far. Unlike many Christian themed movies on television, which
are lacking in many ways, this movie is well worth watching. The
production, story and acting are all as good, if not better than, any
other movie you'd expect to see in the theaters. Without giving away
any real details, the movie follows a family that seems to be falling
apart and realizes they need a higher power than they can find in
themselves to stay together. I don't know if I could say that there are
any real mind shattering revelations in this movie, but it is truly
thought provoking none the less. Obviously, people who refuse to
believe in God and feel no need for faith aren't going to like this
move, they don't want to be preached to. But I would highly recommend
this movie to any one who does believe in God, and even to those who
are open to believing.
<|_=00=_|>
Me and my two kids love all the Kendrick brother films, we own most of
them all, so we knew this one wouldn't disappoint. God really has his
hands on their company... Anyway on to my review.. I enjoyed every part
of this film, mainly because it was mature enough, and spiritual enough
for adults, as well as humorous and appropriate enough for children.
Plus the kids in this movie had a large part to play in the film.
Without giving away any spoilers I will say that whether you are a
Christian or not, if you love prayer, or just want to know/learn more
about it please give this movie a chance and go check it out. I'm
definitely spreading the Word. 

Thanks Kandis
<|_=00=_|>
War Room is a movie about prayer in people's lives. The Trailers don't
really do this movie justice, I didn't feel excited by them. The movie
is well produced and the cinematography is well done. Christian and/or
faith based films have had the stigma of being poorly made (TV drama
story, unfocused camera, bad acting, pushy message, etc) but War Room
actually does all these things right. The brothers who directed this
movie and others have vastly improved over the previous films. The
actors portray people that the audience can relate with and situations
that people face in everyday life. The sharp cinematography was more
akin to Downton Abbey than some Hallmark Channel or Lifetime Movie.
This film was only slightly cheesy a times, but given it's PG rating
this may have been to add humor or some element the whole family could
react to in some sections. War Room is definitely worth the price of
admission and entertaining throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
"War Room" is yet another film made to cash in on the recent Christian
movie boom and like its contemporaries, it puts the message first and
trivial matters such as acting, directing, writing, editing, and
production a distant second. What makes "War Room" perhaps even worse
than its proselytizing brethren is while they tend to share the same
overall message (Christians RIGHT, everyone else WRONG), the underlying
message in "War Room" is far more disturbing.

"War Room" is the story of Tony (T.C. Stallings, who with his razor
sharp features and V-shaped brow is a bit too scary to pass as an
everyman), his wife Elizabeth (Priscilla Shirer), and their daughter,
Danielle. Elizabeth and her husband argue constantly and he even
ponders cheating on her. Things change for Elizabeth when she agrees to
sell the house of Miss Clara (Karen Abercrombie). Miss Clara soon
senses the turmoil in Elizabeth's home life and tells her that her
marital problems will be magically fixed if she hides in a closet and
simply prays for them to get better. Yes, really.

The acting is terrible but considering that the leads are motivational
speakers and the director gives himself a prominent role it's no
surprise. The only person who even tries is Karen Abercrombie but she
plays the sassy black grandma shtick to such extremes that even Tyler
Perry would tell her to tone it down. She's bossy, pushy, and shouts
"Praise Jesus" constantly when she's not speaking in overwrought war
analogies. That being said, at least the scenes with her had some life
to them.

The writing is just awful. It's full of clunky exposition and treats
its female lead with contempt at times, making constant jokes about her
bad breath and smelly feet. You can tell men wrote this as the one
scene featuring all women has them prattle on about being subservient
to their husbands and how it's so "hard" to be a woman. After the first
hour, Jesus is mentioned so much that you could turn it into a drinking
game.

Another way the writing fails is that Tony is so mean to Elizabeth that
their marriage really seems beyond saving. He's verbally abusive,
ignores their daughter, lords his superiority over his wife and ogles
other women. If that weren't bad enough, he turns out to be a thief and
a drug dealer and says in one scene that he wouldn't give his wife CPR
if her life were in danger! I'm supposed to want these people together?

And even if divorce is unthinkable (which in this universe, it seems to
be) why is marriage counseling never mentioned? Do they not know that
some churches actually offer that? They could go to a counselor in
their church, save their marriage (Tony's beyond saving but just go
with it) AND find Jesus along the way! They can even keep the prayer
closet. It's pretty bad when I can think of a way to solve the central
conflict of the movie and keep the religious themes intact better than
these jokers did.

This movie, like others of the genre, operates in an alternate reality
where people convert instantly. Miss Clara preaches to a mugger and
instead of getting gutted like a fish like she would be in real life,
the mugger slinks away. Elizabeth decides to fight for her marriage by
running around the house like a crazy person and shouting at Satan in
the movie's most unintentionally funny scene. Elizabeth's incessant
praying somehow gives her husband food poisoning while on a date with
another woman and he just gives up and leaves. The movie never
considers the fact that he could still go have sex with the woman and
Tony is so nasty by this point it's very plausible he would.

After Tony and Elizabeth magically reconcile, the movie decides to
introduce the drug dealing subplot which is laughably and clumsily
handled. Tony's boss sees that his sales numbers don't add up which
would be enough for a police investigation but they only fire him and
send him on his way. Then he admits to selling drugs on the side but
his boss doesn't arrest him because he was really, really sorry. That
must be a tremendous comfort to all the people who overdosed on the
drugs he sold.

The movie ends with a jump-rope competition that is just unnecessary
padding (keep an eye out for the little girl in the audience who
CONSTANTLY stares at the camera) before launching into full-on
propaganda mode in the last fifteen minutes. It starts with Miss Clara
telling Elizabeth to tell other troubled wives to go hide in their
closets, segues to her house being sold to a minister who can somehow
divine that the closet was used for praying, and finally resorts to
outright filibustering. This is conveyed through a prayer montage that
works its way up through the nation's schools (separation of church and
state is merely a suggestion in this world) to those Godless heathens
in Washington. This coda pretty much wrecks what little verisimilitude
the movie has (which isn't much).

"War Room" is a vile, preachy, and pretentious film with twisted morals
masquerading as wholesome, Christian entertainment. While I can
sympathize with not wanting to divorce, there must be some middle
ground between divorcing after six months and staying with an abusive
and cruel spouse until one of you dies. I can also recognize that there
are marriages where sometimes, divorce is sadly the answer.

It's a pity that this movie doesn't seem to think so. Following this
movie's advice for marital troubles is not just patronizing and
irresponsible, but potentially dangerous. Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
CAVEAT: My wife rented this through Netflix thinking it was about
something completely different, namely, a military codebreaking movie.
I am not a religious person anyway, so I would never have willingly
chosen to watch this movie, but I agreed to watch it after she
encouraged me to "keep an open mind." I take no issue with religious
people or people who believe in prayer, but I think this movie taught
the wrong message to anyone, religious or not. That said, I am now
helping her choose the movies in our Netflix queue :)

First, the old woman should not have pushed her religious views on the
realtor so hard. No religious person should be trying to force religion
on others (Jehovah's Witnesses come to mind). The husband's abusive
behavior and cheating toward the wife and daughter needed to be dealt
with not through crying and prayer, but through counseling and/or
divorce. The fact that the husband committed larceny, embezzlement, and
fraud through his company, lost his job, lied about it, and somehow his
wife not only didn't get angry, but instantly forgave him, made me puke
a little in my mouth. 

And the movie taught that prayer solves all one's problems in exactly
the way one wants, which isn't what is taught in the Christian
religion. A person has no responsibility toward solving his/her own
issues in life; God will fix everything. That, plus the ridiculously
over-the-top melodrama, makes this a must miss, even among the most
evangelical sort.
<|_=00=_|>
I have nothing against Christians or faith based movies. Some of my
favorite films are the biblical epics from the 50s and 60s. other
movies like It's a Wonderful Life has God in it, but doesn't cram the
bible down the viewers throats. And then you have this kind of movie,
that are just propaganda pieces for the kind of Christianity that I
hate: The kind that lives in the past, the kind that take the bible way
to seriously, the kind that refuse to acknowledge equal rights to
homosexuals and woman, the kind that does not vaccinate their children
against diseases. The kind who would beat you if you say something that
is against their religion. This kind of people made this film and it is
made especially for them. It is not that I am against religion or that
this review is anti-religion. It is because that War Room has one of
the worst morals that I have ever seen in any movie.

The plot of the movie is about a family with marriage problems. Not the
normal kind of problems, but the extreme kind. The husband Tony is
verbally abusive against his wife Lis, ignores his daughter, doesn't
communicate with his family and is about to cheat on another woman. Lis
is an real-estate agent, and Tony is an salesman for an medicine
company (we know this because every time someone introduces himself,
thy say the full name and the kind of job the person has). Lis is about
to sell the house of an elderly woman named Miss Clara. She tells her
of her praying technique called the War Room, in which she hangs her
prayers on a wall in an empty closet, and asks God and Jesus to solve
her problems. Lis learns from miss Clara that it is not Tony's fault
that he is an cheating bastard, it is Satan's fault, so she has to pray
for Tony. While this is happening, Tony has an date with another woman.
Clara heard from it and prays to God to intervene. God gave Tony food
poisoning, which stops Tony of cheating on his wife. Tony gets fired of
his job, because he sold drugs of market without the company knowing
it. He returns home, sees the war room, and begs for forgiveness to his
wife, who tells that God is the most important person in her life, but
it is because of God that she has her marriage. Tony spent some time
with his daughter, and brings back the stolen drugs to his boss, who
decided not to press charges on Tony for steeling. The marriage is
saved, and miss Clara is happy to see it, and the film ends with her in
her new war room, where she prays to God to rise up an army of
believers to fight up against the forces of evil.

This film is awful. The acting is bad. Most of the people in this movie
are not even actors, but public speakers for the church. There is no
connection between the people in this film. I never believed for one
second that Tony, Lis and their daughter are related, because they act
like thy have seen each other on just one day. I want that this ends in
divorce, but this film make it clear that divorce is not an option
here. The dialog is and feels unnatural. Miss Clara always uses war
analogies (like prayer is a powerful weapon), the kind that makes you
scared. Nobody takes any responsibility, everything is grace. This
movie has a TV quality to it, it has no reason to be not direct to DVD.
The prayer technique is offensive and dumb. The marriage problems are
solved in the first 60 minutes, and the rest of the hour is nothing but
padding. And the has about 3 points where you think the movie would
end, but then you see that it is still going.

The moral is insulting. The moral is as followed: If your husband is
verbally abusive, and is distrustful to you, don't call for therapy,
don't talk it out. Just empty out your closet, act like a floor mat and
pray to God to solve your problems, not for yourself, but for your
cheating husband. And the fact that this movie is an box office hit and
that some people really like this movie baffles me. Skip this film at
all costs. It is propaganda.
<|_=00=_|>
'WAR ROOM': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

Another Christian drama flick, from the 'Kendrick Brothers'; the team
that's also responsible for such previous 'worship-themed' films as
'FIREPROOF' and 'COURAGEOUS'. Alex Kendrick directed and co-wrote the
movie, and Stephen Kendrick co-wrote and co-produced it. The story
revolves around a couple, that turns to God; to fix their struggling
marriage, with the help of an older, wiser, woman (named Miss Clara).
The film was made on a budget of just $3 million, and it stars a cast
of mostly unknown actors. I think it's a fairly decent Christian movie;
compared to other, much worse, ones (I've seen recently). 

Tony (T.C. Starling) and Elizabeth Jordan (Priscilla Shirer) seem to
have it all; a nice house, two great jobs, and a polite young daughter
(Alena Pitts). The couple are not happily married though, and their
daughter feels resented. When Elizabeth, a realtor, attempts to sell a
house, for a nice (older) lady, named Miss Clara (Karen Ambercrombie),
she's inspired to renew her faith again. By doing so, Elizabeth also
finds the courage to fix her troubled marriage; and save her struggling
family.

The movie is filled with some cheesy dialogue, and bad acting (at
times); but it also has a few good performances, and some inspiring
moments (especially for those of faith). The low-budget shows, and it
does feel (a lot) like a TV movie; but the film is still better than
other Christian-themed flicks (that I've seen, in the past few years).
It has a good message, and it's at least somewhat inspiring. Probably
not something that will interest non-believers (at all); but it's
target audience, should be more than pleased.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/3D-Xa6uhK5U
<|_=00=_|>
Hmm... so is this worse/more-offensive than God's Not Dead? Well, it
depends how one looks at it: God's Not Dead has multiple story lines so
there's more places to look at as far as offensive and THIS IS NOT HOW
*THINGS IN THIS UNIVERSE WORK*, but War Room has level of concentrated
bat-***t insanity going on. I don't even mean the whole 'well if your
husband treats you like poo then what you have to do is go in a closet
and pray that Satan gets out of him because that's what the problem is
and that's IT'. 

I mean things like how working at a Pharmaceutical company would
function if, say, someone *steals* from the company (and while the
movie doesn't really acknowledge characters race, which may or may not
be seen as a 'ok, well, fine, whatever' aspect of the story for the
most part, a black man stealing tens of thousands from his company,
whether he was "honest" enough to fess up to it is besides the point,
he's going to jail, end of story), or about what happens when a mugger
with a knife comes across an old woman (hint, usually what happens in
this movie in *real life* doesn't happen, like, ever), or how adult
parents join in on... children's jump-rope competitions(?) The point
is, War Room is another in a blatant series of films over the past few
years that is out to further brainwash the already converted (and God
help you if you find this to be powerful stuff in a positive way), and
make those who aren't perplexed out of their minds. 

This is a movie creating its own reality to fit its own agenda -
propaganda's textbook definition I know, but it gets worse than that
here by the message that women don't have agency over their own lives,
or, ideally, shouldn't. Why concern yourself with marriage counseling
or trial separations or, gasp, divorce in this second decade of the
21st century when you can simply pray the abuse away (okay, he doesn't
physically hit her or anything but mentally speaking he's abusive)?
It's ironic that a movie that features black characters fairly
prominently and (with the exception of the stunningly throw-back
stereotype of the Magical Mystical Negro trope with Miss Clara, yes,
even in a movie with a mostly black cast I think it counts) doesn't
call attention to the race of its characters should set back the
*feminist* movements of this country several decades.

This is simply a monumentally terrible script by the Kendrick brothers
- think the inverse of everything the Coen brothers are good at - both
philosophically and in its execution of both character development
(there are no clear arcs or dimensions, the husband is a jerk from
minute one until the script says it's time for him to look around a
couple of his families rooms and realize the error of his ways and get
the devil out or some such nonsense) and "plot" whatever that might be.
It is two hours long (with credits), which is one of the more insane
things about this. The movie's story practically ends at the 80 minute
mark but then it suddenly has to become a sports movie, kind of, sort
of, and loose ends that are not even that loose need to be tied up. 

So even if by some miracle, no pun intended, I managed to agree with
what the movie was selling me on its moral points about how to submit
to your man and that prayer, not actual, *existential* acts that make
changes in your and other peoples lives, will solve all the problems of
the world (and don't get me wrong, if you want to pray for yourself,
fine, have at it, but at the risk of doing nothing else it's a foolish
message deep down), I would still find the movie to be atrocious on the
grounds of it not being entertaining in the ways that it intends
(though I was entertained at times in the ways it decidedly did *not*
intend), and how sloppy and idiotic it thinks human beings are.

So like God's Not Dead it is a dangerous movie at least for those
susceptible enough for its message - I hate to find the news story one
day where some poor woman is found dead because she didn't do anything
to really force change in an abusive relationship - and for others it's
all the same a ludicrous piece of would-be filmmaking made for the
budget that a typical Lifetime movie would have (and has acting either
on or *below* those standards) that someone wasn't so much released but
escaped on to screens through a major distributor like Sony and got to
#1 at the box office during one of the worst weekends of the year
(Labor Day). Oh, and there are stinky feet jokes thrown in for good
measure! Because this is a FAMILY MOVIE after all! And by that I mean
keep your families away from this if you care about their mental
well-being!
<|_=00=_|>
For being a movie on such a low budget the acting was very convincing,
the technical resources are good too, even though they're not the main
focus on this movie but the plot and the story line are. It's an easy
to understand and to relate story, a common problem: a family that is
going through some struggles and problems. I have seen quite a few
Christian movies and independently of their quality they all have been
blessings in my life but I was particularly moved by this one since it
does not have an all to subtle message which I love and whole
hardheartedly believe we need more forward messages like that.. I feel
so encouraged because it may be a fictional story but the facts are
real and whoever knows the Lord knows the power of prayer and knows
that our fight is in prayer... This is a powerful movie that should be
shared with anyone and anywhere..
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is POWERFUL and life changing. Why is that? Because it does
not compromise the Word of God and it is so real. The bible tells us
the word of God is alive and active. Sharper than any double-edged
sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and
marrow; it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. And again,
this movie gives you the Word of God straight up which for true
Christians who love the Word of God is PERFECT. I highly recommend this
movie for everyone but especially those who are looking to grow up in
Christ and are ready to receive the full benefits that come from a
powerful prayer life. Husbands and wives, mothers and daughters,
fathers and sons, families, church groups, get out together to see this
movie then go home to make your own War Rooms. More prayer, more power!
