
The Bronze

Low budget comedy that gets overlooked. Check. Amazing dialogue that
will make your grandma be tickled pink. Check. Amazing acting from
under-appreciated actors. Check. The Bronze is about a former medalist
who has to struggle with no longer being in the limelight. The opening
scene in the film is by far the most interesting way to introduce a
character I've seen in a long time.

Melissa Rauch plays Hope. The extremely crass gymnast who doesn't care
what she says but truly cares what people think of her. The first time
I heard her voice I immediately thought of Bernadette Rostenkowski from
Big Bang Theory, but then as she spoke more and she transformed into
Hope.

Gary Cole plays another father figure. You might remember him from
Reese Bobby from Talladega Nights or as Bill Lumbergh from Office
Space. He's has a great character who just wants to make his daughter
happy but at the same time be a responsible father. 

Sebastian Stan plays Bucky Barns, no wait that's who he plays in
Captain America, Stan plays Lance. Hope doesn't like most people, so
when I say she hates Lance, it means something. He was a silver and
gold medalist and took something very important to Hope when she was
younger.

Haley Lu Richardson is excellent as an up and coming gymnast. This was
the first time I've really seen her act. That being said I'm excited to
see her in M. Night Shyamalan's Split coming out in 2017.

Verdict: I wouldn't recommend this to someone whose easily offended. If
you've got the skin for it, I can't recommend this comedy more.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to start out by saying this film is fantastic..! It starts out
REALLY slow & I almost made the mistake by turning it off but I stuck
with it & boy am I glad.. Melissa Rauch who I'd never heard of before
watching this film is hilarious.. She plays a mean foul mouthed former
Olympian bronze medalist who is still living off that fame 12 yrs later
& plays the part like a BOSS..! 

*******WARNING*******

This film isn't for everyone it is filled with cuss words, sexual
innuendos, nudity & a whole bunch of funny so if you like any or all of
the above you'll love this film.. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting much so I got a little more than I was bargaining
for. It's not the best comedy that I've ever seen, but it's a pretty
decent sports movie.

Very grounded in reality, The Bronze is about a gymnast still living
off the moment she took the Bronze in the 2004 Olympics who is forced
to train another gymnast from her hometown going for the gold. 

Definitely amusing to watch Melissa Rauch (who I just realizes is one
of the girls on The Big Bang Theory) as Hope, whose sad existence made
for some laughable moments as she attempts to sabotage the promising
career of Maggie, a bright eyed gold medal contender who worships the
ground Hope walks on. I thought Haley Lu Richardson performance as
Maggie was a definite highlight to a movie that did not have much going
as far as real interesting characters.

It's not laugh out loud funny but it has some enjoyable moments. It
does work as a sports movie with a more down to Earth summary of
overcoming obstacles to be a winner and what happens when that moment
is over. 

Something to watch on the whim if you see on Netflix or something.
<|_=00=_|>
"I had no control of what people talk about. Take that up with the God
of gymnastics." Hope (Rauch) is the darling of her little town after
winning bronze in the 1984 Olympics. Since that time she has made a
living just being her and making sure everyone knows who she is. When
her former coach dies she is asked to train America's greatest hope at
a gold, Maggie (Richardson). Hope must now make a choice, train her to
be better than she was, or give up the chance to collect $500,000. This
is a hilarious movie, just flat out hilarious. Offensive, over the top
and so laugh out loud funny that I had to rewind this a few times to
catch the jokes I was missing. Rauch is incredible in this and almost
everything she says is comedy gold. If you offend easy this is a movie
you should probably avoid, but if you are a fan of R rated comedies
this is one of the best ones I have seen in a long time. This is the
type of movie I could watch over and over and still laugh every time.
Overall, not a movie that will win awards but much like Idiocracy and
Office Space its a movie with tremendous re-watchability and quotable
lines that you will be saying over and over. I loved this and easily
give this an A.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of a a strong willed supremely selfish foul mouthed
Olympic athlete who gets over herself. (Or does she?)

It's got Gymnastic lovin', gymnastic swearing, jabs at men's gymnastics
(which, let's face it, no one gives a rat's gluteus about) secret
handshakes, and an authentic small- town feel.

What's not to love? 

Also, it has Bernadette.

Sure, the characters could have been fleshed out a little more (heh
heh) but this ain't a period drama, it's a feel good comedy about
winning, selfishness, maturity and being a stubborn but excellent
human. 

And when was the last time you saw a movie casting gymnastics in a
positive light?
<|_=00=_|>
If you've ever wondered what would the world be like if Olympic
champion gymnast Mary Lou Retton returned to her hometown of Fairmont,
West Virginia and acted like an egotistical maniac for years after her
career was finished, then director Bryan Buckley and married writing
team Melissa and Winston Rauch have the filthy dark comedy you've been
craving. Gymnast Hope Annabelle Greggory (Rauch) believes her hometown
of Amherst, Ohio still owes her everything after winning the bronze
medal in Rome. She's broke, rude, crude and treats everyone like a used
toilet seat. But things change when Hope's former coach unexpectedly
commits suicide and leaves a will stipulating Hope could receive $500
million so as long as she sets her ego aside and trains the town's
up-and-coming gymnastics star, Maggie Townsend (Haley Lu Richardson).
Team Rauch offers an explicitly lewd comedy that lets the "Big Bang
Theory" star off the FCC regulation chain and shine as a fearless
female comedian lead, which, sadly, does not happen as often as it
should in modern-day cinema. Actor Gary Cole lends his skills as Hope's
adoring father who's growing ever so tired of his daughter's disgusting
behavior. With dialogue that would make a sailor blush and a sex scene
that will burn hysterically disturbing imagery in your mind for life,
you will never look at the sport of gymnastics in the same light ever
again! -Jimmy Martin
<|_=00=_|>
In some ways, "The Bronze" is so entertaining because Melissa Rauch is
playing someone in diametric opposition to her mousy character on "The
Big Bang Theory". Hope Gregory is the sort of Olympics washout that's
fun to laugh at; a foul-mouthed brat who trades in her local celebrity
for free stuff at the mall. Rauch really plays the Midwestern accent to
the hilt, and it pairs very nicely with the coarse dialogue.

Somewhere in all of this is a sports movie, but that's not where it
excels. This character ends up right back where she started, and it
works great as an exaggerated portrait of a has-been in a no-name town.
This flew completely under my radar, and I was surprised (happily) by
how enjoyable it was.

She's very funny.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I knew i wanted to see this film the minute i saw the previews. Like
the title states, this is a pretty low budget film which is very
similar to two Jon Heder films we've already seen, Napolean Dynamite
and Blades of Glory. BUT this is very raunchy. I hadn't seen nor heard
bad language like this since Hot tub Time Machine 2. But the film is
fun to watch, and we see the dehabilitating effects drugs has on
individuals.So as the story goes, there is a gymnast who had competed
in the Olympics...not the 2002 Salt lake City ones, but 2004 if I
remember correctly. This girl, the gymnast ends up winning a Bronze
medal..hence what the title of this film is. Well, her coach dies and
influences her in a letter to take the protégé that she had been
training onto and into a compettitive level as good as she herself had
once been.And thats where the film becomes even more interesting, not
to mention that some of the stars are virtual unknowns...one of the top
billings is an actor that stars in HBO's Silicon Valley.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bronze: An appealing comedy looking at a part of America only seen
in Dan Bell's Dead Mall videos and during political campaigns about
"Real America" . Gary Cole gives the standout performance as the put on
dad sporting a Tom Skerritt mustache and the rest of the cast redeems
themselves well. The film does bite off a bit more than it can chew
trying to replicate two separate Olympic games and missing some easy
targets involving NBC style coverage of same. 

Some might find the main character abrasive beyond redemption but the
movie sells that redemption arc adequately. An overall fun film with
some good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Bronze" (2016 release; 108 min.) brings the story of Hope Ann
Greggory. As the movie opens, we see footage of her at a young age
trying to do cartwheels and other gymnastic related things. It's not
long before we see her competing at the 2004 Rome Olympics, where, at
age 17 and despite a severe foot injury, she manages, very much Kerri
Strug-like in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, to complete her final landing
to salvage a bronze medal and instantly becoming America's sweetheart,
most of all to her home town of Amherst, Ohio. Now, 12 years later,
Hope has become an insufferable woman, obsessed with her moment of
glory. But then, she gets an opportunity to coach up-and-coming gymnast
Maggie Townsend, also from Amherst. At this point we're 15 min. into
the movie, but to tell you more would spoil your viewing experience,
you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: while directed by Bryan Buckley and this is a
Duplass Brothers Production, this is a Melissa Rauch movie all the way.
Best known for her long-running role on TV's The Big Bang Theory. she
stars as Hope, and she co-wrote the scripts (with her husband Winston
Rauch). Almost from the get-go, the Hope character is so unlikeable,
self-absorbed and rude that it frankly affects the way one can enjoy
the movie. "I'm not a coach, I'm a star, I was in Dancing with the
Stars, not Dancing with the Coaches!", Hope yells at her dad when the
idea of her coaching initially comes up. What really surprised me what
how raunchy the movie turned out to be. There is almost non-stop
cussing and crude language. It's a shame that the movie isn't nearly as
funny as it is raunchy. I will admit that there is one sex scene that
is quite hilarious. It seems to me this movie is one big missed
opportunity. You can see the potential, but it rarely materializes.
There is some great song placements in the movie, including Britney
Spears' "Work B**ch", Ace of Base, and others. And check out the song
that plays over the movie's end titles, performed by Melissa Rauch
herself and at her raunchiest yet... 

You may have heard that "The Bronze", which opened wide (defined as
over 1,000 screens) last weekend, completely bombed at the box office,
and then some. It was one of the worst openings EVER for a wide
release, and it's easy to see why. I had seen the trailer and was
intrigued. The weekday evening screening where I saw this at here in
Cincinnati turned out to be a private screening: I was literally the
only person in the theater. I must say that the potential shown in the
trailer never materialized in the movie itself. A darn shame.
