
"Absolute truth is a very rare and dangerous commodity in the context
of professional journalism." Hunter S. Thompson 

Every journalism student should see Truth, a true version of a true
event that included liberal CBS; liberal anchor, Dan Rather (Robert
Redford); and liberal producer for 60 minutes, Mary Mapes (Cate
Blanchett). The latter two sacrificed their jobs possibly for the ideal
of bringing down George W. Bush in his campaign to become president for
the second time.

The journalists thought they had a story about Bush slacking in his
National Guard tour, but what they had was forged documents that
eventually cost them their jobs and credibility. Mapes was the prime
agent of the fiasco, pushing to get a story on 60 Minutes when it was
too close to deadline and more substantiation was needed for the source
and his documents.

First-time director and seasoned-writer James Vanderbilt takes an
almost cool approach, not quite as weighty as All the President's Men
or as frenetic; the journalists young and old struggle with the
profession's verity: Vet your stories and your sources until they bleed
truth. Mapes and her vigilantes are up against a deadline, so more
verifying of documents and sources is not possible. Thus, they should
not have run with the story, but they did. Dan Rather, for all his
experience as CBS news anchor, should not have trusted in Mapes'
research, but he did.

Most of all they should not have trusted Lt. Colonel Bill Burkett
(Stacy Keach), who provided the documents purporting to show Bush's
slacking. Because Burkett was a known liar and fervent Kerry supporter,
no one should have trusted him before corroborating his information.
Journalism students, beware of cutting corners on the road to truth.
The film is an excellent primer on best practices.

Truth is a classy, almost unbiased rendition of a true story, an
entertaining thriller filled with first-rate actors. If there is one
flaw, I submit for your consideration that the film is too reverent of
Mapes and Rather, who made a blunder unworthy of their status and
experience. They are more heroic than they deserve. As cautionary
players on the big media stage, they are the finest examples of flawed
human beings.

"I think journalism gets measured by the quality of information it
presents, not the drama or the pyrotechnics associated with us." Bob
Woodward
<|_=00=_|>
This is a terrific movie. Don't listen to people with an agenda who
want to steer you away from this story. Excellent in every category.
They don't make 'em like this very often any more. Yet of Redford's
last 6 features, at least 3 are hard-hitting, honest dramas--this one,
plus All Is Lost and Lions for Lambs. I have tremendous respect for his
work. Blanchett is one of the best actors working now. Entire
supporting cast is first rate, and I want to mention Rachael Blake and
Andrew McFarlane as turning in superb work. The only thing that
surprised me about the script was that Killian's secretary was left out
of the story, and she confirmed that the content of the Killian memos
was exactly as she remembered them--she agreed the typeface didn't look
authentic to her, but the content was precisely what she typed for
Killian. I remember because I saw the original 60 Minutes II
broadcasts. Rather is a giant in journalism, and I still watch the CBS
Evening News. It's still good, but at one time, CBS News was the finest
news-gathering organization in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Truth is a thoughtful, subtle, quietly powerful movie - something you
don't see much of these days. Yes, it's about the rights of wrongs of a
journalistic investigation, part All The President's Men, part
Shattered Glass. But it is also charts what has happened to news in
recent decades, in particular how it has become a game of "Gotcha!", as
the real issues, arguments and truths get lost in superficialities that
better lend themselves to headlines and 30-second grabs, and how the
news agenda is buffeted by politics, corporate demands and
entertainment values. The films chief assets are a smart, snappy
screenplay and an another astoundingly nuanced performance by Cate
Blanchett. If she had not won an Oscar nomination for her riveting
performance in Carol, then she should surely have been nominated for
Truth.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite getting pretty crappy reviews and leaving the theater I work at
in about a week without bringing in many customers I loved Truth. It is
fascinating as a political commentary on journalism, the mistrust
certain people have of feminists and liberals with the "bias", and the
responsibility of reporters and sources to give accurate information.
After seeing this movie I believe that no matter your thoughts on Dan
Rather, Mary Mapes, or George Bush you will think this movie tells a
great story. The question remains, were those documents false? Were
they real? Does it matter? This movie doesn't care if they were real or
fake, regardless they caused many problems in the lives of the
journalists who reported this story. The actors do a great job. I was
especially impressed with the performance of Topher Grace whose
character Mike Smith is funny and relatable. "I'm eating ramen three
meals a day," talk about truth! This movie is being bashed as
propaganda by Bush supporters, most of whom, I assume haven't actually
seen the film. I am adding Truth to my favorite movies. I am giving it
a ten out of ten and wholeheartedly recommend it. Please note that this
is a reflection of my personal opinion, not paid for or influenced by
any company affiliated with the movie Truth and that, while I am a
proud employee of a national movie theater chain the views and opinions
expressed on this blog are mine and not necessarily a reflection of the
company where I work. This review originally appeared on my blog.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is based on true events. How CBS caved in to the George Bush
administration in 2004 to discredit a true news story. A major plot
point hinges on the fact that rich and "connected" sons of influential
Texans were allowed to enter the National Guard rather than be drafted
and serve in Vietnam. CBS's internal investigators said it couldn't be
proved. I know it's true because I served in the National Guard in
another state and there were several people who got placed there
because of "favors." and connections. Kate Blanchett is really good and
totally believable as are the other characters. Maybe there is not so
much action as ideas and conversation. But the movie rings very true
and deserves to be seen.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is about a reporter played by Cate Blanchett, who uses some
really questionable documents as proof for a story she wants to
believe, then gets stung by the blososphere. 

Cate is doing a piece about Bush in the National Guard, but proof
pivots on some really ghetto looking documents. It doesn't help that
the guy providing the them looks like the kind who would run over your
foot at Walmart on his rascal scooter, and you would feel too sorry for
him to complain because his oxygen tank fell off the cart. The docs
sort of look like they were faked by an 8th grader too.

The movie is not so much a historical piece, because it is so biased
toward Dan Rather and Blanchett's characters. It is more of a feminist
statement gone haywire.. It would be like if Blanchett entered a teen
bikini contest to protest it's objectifying women, then was aghast when
she didn't win. No matter the crowd ran out screaming, she entered to
make a point, damn it, and you had better look!!! "OK, OK, maybe I
can't prove the story, but I just know it's true!!!!!"

The reporter is the type Blanchett was was born to play. Big , bossy,
brutish bitchy and blonde, she not so much works but more elbows her
way thru the film . In addition she has all the props- wimpy house
hubby, special needs type son (only ONE kid, natch), bad knock off of a
Tudor house and sensible shoes--YIKES! It's no wonder she got fired, I
kept worrying she was gonna get murdered. She has issues, MAJORLY, and
they are of the deep rooted Daddy variety. She wasn't gonna ever end up
on a stripper pole, for obvious reasons, so instead goes out hunting
for revenge, but instead of a spear she uses a pen, with mixed results.

I remember when Dan Rather got his first mega media star contract,
decades ago but well into seven figures. In the film, they ask him why
he went into "journalism". He should have answered "you call this
journalism"? but instead quipped "curisosity"......yea, right. 

? Remember that line from" Broadcast News", when the guy asked his
father "what can you do if all you can do is look good?" A square jaw
and veneer job can sure come in handy....
<|_=00=_|>
"You're supposed to put yourself out, seek the truth, and take what
comes from it." During the election of 2004, 60 minutes producer, Mary
Mapes (Blanchett) uncovers a story saying that President Bush went AWOL
from the national guard for a year. Thinking she has enough evidence
and enough verification Dan Rather (Redford) reports it to the world.
Almost immediately the report is called into question and the careers
of everyone involved are in jeopardy. This movie hits all the right
notes for me is is a true story, it's political and historical. I was
looking forward to this movie, and was not disappointed at all. I knew
most of the story that took place, but this movie deals with the behind
the scenes events that no one knew about. Regardless of your political
beliefs this is a hard movie to ignore the facts of. I'm not talking
about the facts of the report, but the events and the "witch hunt" that
essentially took place. For example, none of the events were
investigated but the font of the letters were. This is just a great
movie and reminded me of All The President's Men. I highly recommend
this. Overall, tense and anger inducing. A movie I highly recommend. I
give this an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Cate Blanchett, Robert Redford, Dennis Quaid, and Bruce Greenwood star
in "Truth" from 2015.

This is a film you can't win writing about. Just take a look at the
message board.

The story concerns documents that were given to "60 Minutes" stating
that Bush used family connections to get out of going to Vietnam, and
that he was a national guard pilot who was rarely around and, as such,
could not be evaluated.

Mary Mapes (Blanchett) attempts to verify the documents, finally
getting verbal confirmation and people to talk on camera. Dan Rather
reported on it.

Then information began to surface on the Internet that the documents
were fakes, written, in fact, on a computer in Microsoft Word. A big
thing was the appearance of a superscript. However, this was explained
as well, though there were no originals. 

Then people who had spoken to 60 Minutes started waffling. The powers-
that-be began to get nervous. Before you know it, the careers of Dan
Rather and Mary Mapes were over.

The acting by Blanchett and Redford was absolutely wonderful, both
being two of my favorites. Topher Grace, Bruce Greenwood, and Elizabeth
Moss also gave strong performances.

The presence of Robert Redford in a film usually signals a liberal
agenda. So I'm surprised people with another point of view even watched
this.

The film, to me anyway, comes down on the side of 60 Minutes, giving
the impression that Mapes did all she could to verify the documents,
and that ultimately she was let down because of political pressure to
state the memos were untrue.

A few things, since I was alive back in the '70s: Like it or don't like
it, people, not just Bush (if he did), used family connections to stay
out of Vietnam. The fact that there were so many children from
well-known families in this one unit was suspicious.

This seemed to me another example like the Challenger - people knew it
was going to blow up but sent it up on schedule anyway. 60 Minutes had
verified these documents up to a point, but given the date they wanted
to broadcast, they didn't have enough time to investigate further. 

Explosive information like this, I would think, has to be run down to
the ground. They didn't want to wait until after the election, but the
schedule was full except for a date coming up in five days.

Mapes made an excellent point when she appeared before the antagonistic
investigative committee, that it would be next to impossible for
someone to know the right people, have inside information, and do the
research involved in creating the memos - and then, ruin it all by
sitting down and typing the memos up in Microsoft Word.

Rather left the show feeling that journalism had lost its integrity,
that it succumbed to pressure to kill a story.

One has to make one's own decision about all this. My own opinion is
that 60 Minutes did believe these memos, they did not present them
knowing they were false, but they probably needed to spend more time on
them.

One of the most striking scenes occurs while Mapes is before the board
and is asked: Don't you believe that some of these men from prominent
families actually wanted to serve? Long silence. Mapes: No. I do not.

A tense, absorbing film. The only thing is, to see Robert Redford,
Bruce Greenwood, and Dennis Quaid looking so old depressed me more than
I can say. Robert Redford looked embalmed. Forty years ago...well, I
can't go back, any more than 60 Minutes, Rather, and Mapes can.
<|_=00=_|>
Truth is based on the book by former CBS producer Mary Mapes who was
fired over her 60 Minutes segment on sitting President George W. Bush
right before the national election in 2004. It also led to the
resignation of news anchor Dan Rather in 2005. Cate Blanchett can do
anything including a flawless American accent. The rest of the cast
holds their own. This story will infuriate those who know how the 1%
regularly manipulate any situation which may uncover their flaws and
deception. The viewer can draw their own conclusions on how well the
journalists performed but we also know how the process of telling the
news has been forced to change over the years. The courage to have
integrity has also been regularly challenged as we've gotten too
politically correct.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very good film. The cinematography, writing, acting, pacing,
and most everything else just works. Particularly satisfying is
Redford's portrayal of Rather, while not an impression or imitation,
treats the man with the respect which is his due. Based on Ms. Mapes's
book covering the "Rathergate" scandal, it tends to cover both sides of
the issue - was the story politically motivated? The film says "No!"
but the words say "Yes!" It's left up to the viewer to decide - which
is a welcome and refreshing movie experience in the days of Michael
Moore leftist propaganda.

The problem I have with the story is the constant assertion that the
CBS 60-Minutes news team did no thing other than pursue the truth. This
is not the case by the film's own revelations. The team starts off with
a clue that George W. Bush was AWOL during his "privileged" tour in the
Texas Air National Guard, and that he was "released early" so he could
attend Harvard. At times it reads like Stone's JFK with conspiracy
theories flying about and fingers pointing at enlarged documents on the
wall, building this "solid" case that Bush was deliberately put out of
harms way because of who he is while others died in Vietnam. While the
film does touch on John Kerry's "purple heart" debacle - it fails to
mention stronger issues such as Bill Clinton being the beneficiary of
friends in high places regarding Vietnam. The 60-Minutes crew has just
one problem - they can't find any collaborating evidence to support
their theory. They call everyone they can find and it isn't that no one
is willing to talk about it, but they are constantly told there is no
story here and getting hung up on. "No stings were pulled" they are
constantly told. Suspecting that everyone is afraid of Bush, and rather
than "following the facts to the truth," they continue to dig, and end
up finding Bill Burkett, who has copies of two memos that seem to
suggest that Bush was AWOL from the Air National Guard. They don't say
that, but it's what Mapes WANTS to believe, and so they go with it.
AWOL stands for "Away Without Leave" which means a soldier who has
orders to be at a post at a certain time was not - in fact - there at
that time and in violation of those orders. A soldier is not AWOL if he
is away WITH permission - something the film glosses over. That is, we
never know if Bush has permission or not - just that he was not on base
to be evaluated - according to the memos.

They try to have the documents authenticated, and two of the four
experts refuse to do it because they are not originals. Mapes pushes
forward, backed by the belief that even if the memos themselves are
fakes, the information on them is at least true, and that's good
enough. They put the story together, and because 60-Minutes is being
pre-emptied by - shudder, a Billy Graham crusade - they decide to push
the story out in four days rather than - well - actually baking the
story more before rushing it to air. According to the film, they were
editing footage seconds before air time. But, it would seem, it was
more important to get "the truth" out about Bush in the election year
sooner than later, then say, do their jobs.

Calamity ensues after the airing, with everyone pointing out the very
obvious proportional fonts used in the memos, the fact that they were
copies of copies, the New Times Roman Font, and a silly stunt about the
super- scripted "th" which indicate that the memos were produced using
Microsoft Word. They actually dig through boxes of documents looking
for a super-scripted "th" to "prove" that it was possible in 1972 to
have a typewriter with such a feature. Tap-dancing and straw- grasping
at its most desperate.

The film ends with an inquest, where Mapes defends the memos insisting
that they must be real because of the intimate knowledge a forger would
have to possess in order to create them, but then make the ridiculous
mistake of creating them using Microsoft Word. That alone screams that
the documents should not have been trusted, but Mapes did anyway
because - well - you can't un-ring a bell and if it gets Kerry elected
then it's all in being on the Right Side of History. Yet, it still
doesn't excuse why the memo format wasn't questioned until it was
pointed out to them. The punch line is that Mapes needed them to be
true so they could smear Bush. Right or wrong, true or false, the story
was run to smear Bush, which is NOT pursuance of the truth even if it
should end up being the truth.

The film never takes a solid position on Bush, and I think that's the
point. What is the truth here? It's left up to the viewer.
