
I am so unbelievably unhappy with this movie! The writer of the script
has completely dissed the original most exciting plot from the books to
some stupid ridiculous mainstream apocalyptic story.

None of this happens in the book. None of it makes sense. It's called
"The Scorch Trials" as in trials from wickd. Not some stupid escape
adventure! I was so excited for this movie and I'm going to be honest,
I left the cinema fuming with anger. If you're going to create a movie
based on a book, actually go by the book plot. Don't make you're own
and expect everyone to be happy with it. I'm sure the writer of the
movies just ticked off an entire fandom.
<|_=00=_|>
It is as if the concern of the producers and story writers were so
focused on the movie's DBOX worthiness that they forgot to include the
story line.

I went to this movie with two friends that have not read the books, as
I have. Both walked out of the movie confused..."Where did the virus
come from?" was the first question that they asked. 

The beginning of the movie should have included the reason why
W.I.C.K.E.D. created the Maze, explained what the Flare is, and
introduced both groups of Maze runners. Instead, the audience is lost
in visual effects without knowing why the action is happening. To add
insult to injury, the writers turn the virus infected people into
inhuman, biologically altered zombies. The immune are now a commodity
for a short term fix to the virus problem. So much has been lost by
these adaptations that the result is a vague and confusing zombie
flick. I almost walked out.

This was a wonderful book that should have been an incredible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I didn't want to go and see this movie especially because
I saw the first part and while I was watching it I was really
interested in knowing why they were tested in the maze or who Thomas
and Teresa were, what they did before they were cast out into the maze,
etc... but unfortunately I got none of this answers, but what I did get
were a lot more mysteries but no answers, but it's not like LOST where
it leaves the audience thinking and putting things together and finding
out the mysteries, but it's more of a dull and predictable mysteries
every time they have some of the main characters talk to each other.

This movie starts where the other one picked off, both in action and in
mysteries, you will get 0 answers as to how the virus infected the
world, or how the world was destroyed as it is, or what is the cure,
and mainly you will see that there is no real motivation to be on
wither side WICKD or the Gladers, because in fact what separates their
motivations is just the way they use the antidote and nothing more,
here there's more illogicalness than clever writing or a logical
explanation of why Thomas and the others are against WICKD, but yeah
the movies spends more of its time giving you more mysteries and making
you more interested in seeing the final conclusion than actually put
some sense into this chapter... 

Next, the dialogues are extremely cliché-d like: "you're not working as
fast as I need you", or "the boss arriving sooner than expected", "come
on let's go!", etc, etc... you get the picture. Although I might be
ignored, cause every useful reviews on this are from people who think
this movie is awesome, I need to say my opinion and save the money of
some people who want to go see this movie hoping it's a good one. More,
it seems like every time there is a dialog that can reveal key plot
points or mysteries, or memories, is cut short and the subject quickly
changes to something else, and it gets really frustrating, I was
laughing as hard as I could with my friend in the cinema, while
watching things like that or glass that breaks, then suddenly not
breaks, then finally breaks, it's like the glass listens to the movie
script, just like other things like storm or zombies. 

This movie got so bad, that at one point where it turned ridiculously
cliché-d and mysterious beyond any measure, I thought of leaving the
cinema, but I stayed out of respect for my friends who invited me to
see it, cause I would NEVER see a movie so cliché-d and stupidly
mysterious(I couldn't find any other words) in my life again. This is
just an insult to an intelligent mind because this movie just wants to
be too clever but ends up setting more mysteries and events for the
next movie than it resolves the mysteries or conflicts it already has. 

Even though there isn't a "Maze Runner" title to show at the beginning
of the movie, this movies feels ridiculously stupid about running in
every scene of the movie. All the conflicts or natural disasters end up
with the Young Adults running from those things. And yeah, you heard me
correctly, even the natural disasters are chasing the kids. At this
point I was having 0 expectations from the movie, and it didn't
surprised me after that, being only more cliché-d and predictable, not
even zombie's scares didn't frighten me, and honestly I remained with
pretty much nothing after this movie, unlike after I watch movies from
Stephen Spielberg, Nolan, Scorsese, Ron Howard, etc, etc... 

So to wrap up this review, don't go and see this movie, unless you are
bored to death and want to have some fun and laugh at how bad this
movie really is. By the way, the movie's rating is way too high, this
shows just how easily people are fooled and how easily their money are
wasted on things like this. This movie's real rating should be around
5-6, but until it gets there(which probably won't happen) I stick with
1.
<|_=00=_|>
Short version: Read the book, but don't see the movie. OR, go see the
movie, but don't read the book. Just DON'T do both.

Long version: There really are no words to describe how far away this
movie was from the book. It was like going into a theater expecting to
see The Terminator, and seeing Braveheart instead. Both great movies,
but NOTHING similar about them. Besides the character names,
lightening, and some sand, NOTHING, I repeat NOTHING about this movie
resembled ANY part of the book. Nothing. I read the book in one day,
two days before I saw this movie. I was so excited to see this
fantastic book come to life, and I left sorely disappointed.

I'm not sure if the author of the book was involved at all in the
decisions that went into the writing of this movie, but they completely
bastardized, completely changed EVERYTHING about his story. Even the
core motivation behind the 'who and the why' was different.

It simply was not the same story at all. I've seen many books made into
movies and I'm familiar with the huge and often disappointing changes
they inevitably make, but this was off the charts. I've never seen
anything like it.

If you haven't read the books, then go see it. It was fun enough. But
please don't bother if you enjoyed the original story; because it's a
completely different one.
<|_=00=_|>
***this review may contain spoilers*** It is undeniable that this movie
has its fair share of thrills, stunning CGI scenes and unique yet
realistically gory zombies.

However, there is nothing more to that. It jumps from scene to scene
without enough plot to give the audience a sufficient sense of
appreciation as to why the characters are doing what they do. I could
hardly believe it when the movie ended, 2 hours wasted on what could
have been time playing "left 4 dead 2" and still leaving me with the
same feeling - the 'that was thrilling but a complete waste of time'
feeling. 

I'm going to keep this a short and simple, almost lazy review. Because
that is exactly how I feel about this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
While the first Mazerunner set itself away from the pack of YA
Dystopian future film adaptations, Scorch Trials jumps on the
bandwagon.

I even got them all confused at one point. Isn't there a 'scorch' and a
'wall' that prevents those why-are-we-so-dangerous Divergents from
crossing the void? Isn't there a great dictator and our 'only hope'
youngling who vows to 'kill' him/her in Hunger Games? Isn't there a
group of important-but-we-don't-really-know-why kids running around in
Kanye West's latest fashion line in both of those films? The first
Mazerunner kept the mystery, pace, energy, and most importantly action,
all at such a great length and mood of importance, that it was hard not
to like. Scorch Trials tries to keep that energy, but this time around
it feels forced and misdirected.

Not to mention the run-time that is completely unnecessary. Like 'Mad
Max' the plot is thin. They escape, they run, they escape again, run
some more, a little bit more escaping, they run again, they escape once
more, and end the film with.... we have to go back and 'finish' this.

Finish what?! What is so damn important?! We don't know because the
whole film works like a long filler episode of television. Just as two
characters are about to reveal hidden memories to one another or answer
important plot questions, they stop! I find that to be unbearable and
annoying (especially since it occurs several times from beginning to
end.)You never have a single conversation end in this film. It's all
hints, hints... nothing.

And once the film ends, it ends with two lines that make no sense. "I'm
going to kill her." Why? Does that stop WKD? Nope. Then a response.
"What is your plan?" --as our hero responds with a look out in the
distance-- we cut to black..... because you don't have a f*cking plan.
Because none of you have a f*cking plan. There is a constant mood in
this film, and the Divergent films, and the Hunger Games, that
something is important, some kind of a minuscule idea is important, but
we're gonna take 8 films to kinda-sorta find out what that important
thing is.

Consensus? I now consider the first Mazerunner a great film that'll
have to stand on its own. Skip Scorch, or wait for DVD. The good
things? One or two moments of action (not scenes) that are well done.
And in general the scope, set pieces, and CGI are top notch.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked Maze runner, but still don't understand why they didn't
just build a ladder to the top of the wall and walk out. This movie was
full of WTF stupid moments that really bugs me.

Like why didn't they just turn off the generator when they noticed that
that's what brought the zombies to life?! Instead they just leave it on
and like Monty Pithon they run away, run away!

When Brenda and Thomas see that creepy growing red stuff on the walls
of the sewer, anyone else, after all they have been through would have
taken one look and said nope, I'm outta here, but instead they have to
go fully investigate this dangerous looking creepy stuff. They could
have found a better way to have Brenda get infected.

When Thomas makes an impossible heroic save of Brenda from falling to
the ground through the glass, are we really supposed to assume they had
no trouble at all getting back to the doorway above and clear from
danger?!

When that guy is shooting the big gun off the back of the truck, first
of all he is a horrible shot not able to hit a huge helicopter and
second, why didn't he shoot the transport before the kids got on it.
All the bad people were on it and ripe for the killing and yet he does
nothing. 

I also thought Mary's character was way too short lived. Brenda and
Thomas relationship was not played out well enough and I really don't
like Teresa. Traitor bitch ;) Also couldn't they find a better song
than After Midnight? AC/DC or Disturbed or something that sounded like
destruction would have made for a better scene. 

I have not read the books, but maybe the film would be better if they
hadn't heavily diverted away. Either way I think it was lazily written
and I want my $6 back! Lol
<|_=00=_|>
A film with little substance or meaning. Zero plot, zero character
development and zero fulfillment after watching. Cardboard actors, poor
plot line (wasteland zombie survival by inexperienced 'teens' with luck
on their side). I simply cannot understand why Hollywood can continue
to churn out such condescending and boring films like this which cost a
fortune to make (wow - must be good if cost $100million!). I can only
think that Hollywood marketing overrules common sense of young adults
whom Hollywood execs think are easy to hoodwink to pay and watch tripe
like this. It's up to you, but if you go and watch this and waste your
money watching the same, then don't blame me for not warning you. Total
garbage and about 2 out of 10 from a film lover with 35 years viewing
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed watching the first Maze Runner but I didn't think this
was quite as good.

The Scorch Trials got some great and intense, action packed scenes,
good acting and cool environments but that's it. If you liked the first
movie you may like this too or you may get a little disappointed. Don't
have so high hopes on this movie.I still enjoyed it a bit but I think
it got many bad parts.

I'm not a fan of zombies so I hated the Idea with zombies in the desert
or (infected people with a virus, Cranks). Everything is about Thomas
in this movie. Everyone knows him and he does not know them. He does
not even want to know who they are. That's so weird. I got tired of
everyone calling his name. It felt like there was never a scene without
Thomas in it. 

I think the most irritating part is that Thomas and the others do
everything they can to escape from the "WICKED", they go out in the
scorch and some of them dies. Later on one friend of his is getting
caught by the WICKED again and Thomas decides that he will turn around.
They barely even made it out from the scorch and now they turn back
after 2hours of the film because one friend got caught? (also because
he realized he wants to fight the WICKED now and not run away anymore).
It felt like a meaningless adventure. I think they could just skip to
the 3rd movie right away.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh how I wish I'd seen a trailer that showed the absurd zombie
incarnations. Gag me with a spoon.

Now I'm supposed to issue a SPOILER ALERT... although to give away this
plot is laughable it is so formulaic and predictable. The entire
premise of the movie is absurd. Fast paced to nowhere with lots of
movement, little action, noisy and pointless. 

Gee, the obtuse teenager tries to save his buddies from having their
blood sucked out of them by the mean scientists and from being bitten
by the zombie creatures. And the soldier group -- the right wing so to
speak -- are so rag tag as to be an impossible group to put up any kind
of struggle against the crack troops of WCKD... wicked. (wasn't that
clever!) 

When searching for the rag tag group, they get stuck in a canyon behind
cars left to barricade their hiding place. Then they get attacked --
are you ready -- with the ubiquitous helicopters that everyone in the
known universe knows WCKD has... except the right appendage (I don't
want to give away their clever name).

Just wish this group had gotten lost in the maze.
