
I just finished watching this movie. I don't understand all the bad
reviews I thought it was pretty good. I'm very particular on my horror
especially these days. I found it to be rather eerie and a creepy
atmosphere. It has a nightmare on elm street kind of vibe but more
stranger. It's not a serial killer rip off and far from boring. 

Perhaps people are just obsessed with the lousy "found footage"
atmosphere or the Ouija boards possessions. I thought it was a rather
refreshing considering all the other flicks these days. I wasn't
expecting to enjoy it I just put it on for background noise and I
thought it was going to be a random crazy fellow killing random people. 

I highly suggest it I'm shocked about all the bad reviews I'm wondering
if we watched the same movie. If you're not the type to listen to bad
reviews I say take a chance for it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm so serious when I say this: I made an IMDb account just to rate
this movie. If you are considering watching this, you shouldn't. I
guarantee you, you will hate it! I felt like I was watching a comedy
when I was in the theater, I even laughed a few times. The "villain"
was a poorly computer animated joke. I didn't feel scared or even
remotely nervous. Every single person who was involved in the making of
this movie should feel extremely awful lmao. I actually think this is
in the top ten worst movies I've ever seen. I wish there was an option
to rate it zero. Please don't watch this movie. I'm making this review
to save your time!! This has been my good deed for the day... sorry
excuse for a movie in general
<|_=00=_|>
I've just been to see The Bye Bye Man and i can honestly say it isn't
that bad. OK so it isn't going to win any awards and its unlikely to be
a horror classic. But if you go in expecting little then its a pretty
decent horror film. Its pitched somewhere between Sinister and it
follows. 

Pros

Its quite easy to watch. Fairly decent story

Cons The acting is below average. The story had potential to be really
good but seemed to lack in a proper back story and the main characters
were lacking any real personality.

Overall If you are looking for an amazing horror film then this
probably isn't for you. If you want something fairly enjoyable for 90
minutes i can think of worse films to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit that there are some very creepy parts to this film, yet
watching this film I kept getting flashbacks on better horror movies
that presented bogeymen way better than this one did. I felt like I was
watching a movie that decided to reanact scenes from other movies.

I'm just going to come out and say it: The acting is HORRIBLE. This
movies presents us with stilted, horrendous caricatures of what I think
is supposed to be acting, but overall it's some of the worst I've seen
in a while. The character's dialogue is so clumsy it gets awkward after
a while. This is seriously worse than what college kids fresh out of
film school can do!

Another error with this film is the characters describing the plot of
this movie repeatedly to us OVER AND OVER AGAIN. This movie could have
been about 20 minutes long! This may just be one of the most incomplete
films I think I've seen in a while. 

I didn't have very high expectations for this movie when it came out,
but my god is it a lot worse than I had imagined it could ever be!
<|_=00=_|>
First thing you need to know is the acting is bad. At times it's
alright, at times it's awful, and at times I cringed. The plot of the
movie is not bad, no one really has addressed this but this is easily
the only thing that kept my interested throughout. Not a new idea by
any means, but the psychological aspect of the movie kept me
entertained. The directing was good. Some shots were pretty cool and
some jump scares were actually clever. Depending on how you look at it,
one of the jump scares was either a rip off or was inspired by a James
Wan jump scare. The movie had the potential to be good and they just
dropped the ball. Some people have mentioned how the shot gun deaths
were one of the reasons it was a "bad" movie. These people are over
dramatic. That scene, while head scratching is not going to ruin the
movie. Though, it's what they had to do it seems to keep a PG-13 rating
based off rumors I'm seeing/reading. If you are a fan horror, go into
this movie with low expectations. If you are not a fan of horror, don't
watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Like some other reviewers said, I could not understand how the IMDb
score at this time is 4.3. but there were so many 1 star ratings in the
written reviews. This horror movie deserves 5 stars, which makes it
worth watching if you are a horror fan. IMDb users note, horror movies
rarely get above 6 stars, its just how people vote in this entire
genre. A 7 in a real horror movie, is like "gone with the wind" or
"citizen kane" level classic (lol). Anyways, back to the review.

This movie has a good premise, good rules for the supernatural critter
to follow, real unease and dread, even among the "authority" support
characters, and a few good scares. The CGI budget is low, and it
DOESN'T MATTER, as it might in some other movie.

And I don't just mean it is good for an indie, it is just plain good
(if you are a horror fan).
<|_=00=_|>
Im very picky when it comes to horror movies... I hate movies like
paranormal activity and Annabelle. This movie was just fine to watch at
home. The acting is off yes but its more realistic to how real people
act than how most movies portray. Needless to say real people don't
behave like they do in movies so this one is a nice change.

I also loved the fact that this movie was about teenagers but didn't
include them having sex, getting drunk or party all the time... It was
a pleasant change to watch a movie about decent teens.
<|_=00=_|>
Following the unwritten rule of horror movies, which states that those
with one word are usually good, this movie had 3 words for its title so
that was fairly obvious. However, it is a decent horror movie with a
good mystery story. The plot is formulaic, and predictable. The acting
was decent, the main disappointment was the Carrie Ann Moss as the
detective; who looked weak compared to her role as Trinity in the
Matrix. The Bye Bye Man looked fake, and so was the hound. Yet, the
scenes with the Bye Bye man are the best parts of the movie, and you
can overlook the fakeness. This may be due to poor direction. The
premise seemed to focus on the actors going mad, but is poorly
executed. In fact, Bye Bye Man has a promising premise but ruined by
poor direction. The best part was Doug Jones as the titular character
was the best part.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the bad reviews this movie has received by those
claiming to be horror fans,I think some people just expect way too much
from a 90 minute period of time. I started watching horror movies in
the very early 1970's,when they were truly bad,so you can imagine how
many I've seen in the last 40+ years. The Bye Bye man is one of the
better ones I've seen.More of a thriller than a horror,I found the
acting solid and felt their was a great chemistry between the three
main characters,Cressida Bonas did particularly well in her debut movie
and I really enjoyed her performance. The plot was a tad loose but not
too bad,tending to concentrate on the three main characters story line
rather than boring the watcher with a long drawn out back story,the
movie got to the point early and stayed there,which I personally loved
about it. The few FX that were needed were well done and the makeup was
excellent. All up I'd recommend this movie to any thriller/horror fan
and ignore the haters who have forgotten how to enjoy a movie for what
it is and have become armchair critics.
<|_=00=_|>
The negative reviews for this movie are unjustified. For a what is a
fairly low budget in this day and age it did well. The acting was good,
the plot was intense and the twists were brilliant.If they had a higher
budget I'm sure they could have done even better, and I'm sure a sequel
would do well.
