
The Shallows knows exactly what it is, and that's the best praise I can
give it. It's barely 90 minutes long, has a small cast, and only one
location. Its only purpose is to give you a thrill-ride during that
time; an adrenaline rush based on an ubiquitous fear among humans:
being stranded in the ocean with a shark. However as the title
suggests, this doesn't take place in the middle of the ocean. This
woman is stranded only a couple hundred yards from the shore, close
enough to potentially shout for help. What The Shallows does so well is
establish this sense of isolation and hopelessness for our main
character, and her situation of being so close yet so far from safety.

Blake Lively is great in this role. It's mostly a reactionary role -
not much dialogue aside from some early establishing conversations to
develop her character. For the majority of the film Lively is terrified
and fighting for survival against a deadly shark. This thing is huge,
like the Jaws' shark's father huge. And it's interesting to see how she
follows its patterns and observes its behavior, allowing her to act
accordingly without being trapped. There are some far-fetched scenes,
sure, but Jaws had them as well and it's hailed as a classic. Now I'm
not saying The Shallows is as good a movie as Jaws, because it
certainly isn't. But again, the movie knows what it is, and as a short
shark thriller appealing solely to our primal fear, it gets the job
done and then some.

Now, it has its faults. The electronic music during the surfing scenes
was immediately off-putting, and there are some slo-mo shots that
definitely did not deserve to be in slo-mo. But the directing as a
whole is well done - gorgeous sweeping shots of the open ocean, the
slow build up before the initial attack, showing the shark only when
it's most effective. The writing is clever and practical, relatable to
the point that you feel for this character's predicament, and the
acting as I said is top notch. The Shallows doesn't break any new
ground, but it does exactly what it sets out to do - give the audience
yet another reason to avoid the beach.
<|_=00=_|>
I can suspend disbelief with the best of them, a shark becomes vengeful
towards a human, no problem, an exhausted woman can ride a turbo
charged chain to extreme depth, fine, mobile phone coverage on an
isolated beach in Mexico, sure, they have great infrastructure.

What I absolutely cannot accept is that high tide does not follow low
tide by a little over six hours. It's the same the world over and is
invariable. A hot girl in a bikini can persuade me of almost anything,
but not that she can change the speed the moon revolves around the
earth.

To add to this marine quibble, the story tells us there's 25 minutes to
high tide, but the rock she's sitting on is still two feet above the
water. Now if she'd been marooned on a rock in the Bristol Channel,
where there's a huge tidal range, it's just possible the rock could
have been covered 25 minutes later. Of course it's pretty cold, so no
bikini, and there aren't any killer sharks, so no tension.

The rest of the film is extremely silly. She should have eaten the
bird.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this but.. This is one of the most ridiculous movies
I've seen in a while. Left me baffled in disbelief. The protagonist is
apparently Wonder Woman, or something, since she doesn't need any food
or drink to survive for days. Neither does she seem to feel much pain
or any side effects from gaping wounds, gangrene, and jellyfish stings,
nor bleed to death from blood constantly gushing out of her wounds. In
fact, after two nights, in this emergency state, she still has the
strength and stamina of an Olympic athlete.

The shark is similarly unrealistic in that it can apparently stalk
people, eat an entire person within seconds before immediately moving
to the next one, and rather circles a potential human prey rather than
eating from a juicy whale cadaver nearby.

You're better off watching something like "Sharknado" I'm afraid.
<|_=00=_|>
......to compare it to Jaws in anyway is an absolute insult. CGI shark
that you only actually see in total for around 2 minutes of the film is
quite lame, I just don't understand how people are so impressed with
it. The seagull is actually the star of the show here and I was routing
for him more than Nancy ! Some of the sharks behaviour was completely
ridiculous........when has a great white ever jumped out of the water
onto a pile of rocks for its prey ?! Just a completely unbelievable
story that could have been so much better overall. On a positive note
the cinematography was good as were 6 mins of the film........the other
80 were very disappointing.........don't rush to the cinema for this
one, borrow someone's DVD if they buy it !!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Blake Lively diving better than a shark, burning water, surfers that go
surf without letting anybody know about spot and timing spoiled this
movie but the bird was a solid 2 stars. Gotta love a good animal
performance. Oh wait, he was animated? Right...

On a serious note probably the worst movie I have seen this year. Some
beautiful shots with solid acting but the storyboard is just ridiculous
and details such as wrong light for different times in the day are
frustrating. 

Not worth watching...unless you like watching a bird's wing getting
fixed by a med-school dropout. *chirp-chirp*
<|_=00=_|>
i think i'm fortunate in that i'm not familiar with Blakey Lively so my
view of this film wasn't influenced by her image. i will reiterate what
a previous reviewer said and with it, justify my 2 out of 10 rating
when he said " god dam she look hot in a bikini." i hate to admit it,
but slogged through this whole film thinking it could only be redeemed
if she somehow lost her top. 

but frankly, that's all this movie has going for it. look out, spoilers
inc.

everything about this film is terrible. from the beginning opening
scene to the final credits (i sat through it -all-) it was if i was
watching a college film project made by an ambitious stoner, his
entourage of two stoner buddies, his hot girlfriend, a neighborhood kid
and a venice pier trained seagull.

i'm convinced the people who compare this to Jaws in any fashion have
never even seen Jaws or are somehow mistakenly thinking of Jaws the
Revenge in which case i'll remind you that it's the one with Mario Van
Peebles in it. the really terrible one.

Soul Surfer is a better shark movie. Finding Nemo is a better shark
movie. Little Mermaid is a better shark movie.

this movie is just crap. 

the CG is well overdone and it seems the animation crew shared the same
enthusiasm and skill you'd expect from a senior citizen inserting their
3.5" floppy disc, discovering the dial up glory of AOL online and
creating their first Myspace page complete with "can't smile without
you" MIDI soundtrack. 

temporary suspension of disbelief is required if you want to believe a
shark is more interested in a struggling, hot blond than 2 tons of dead
whale protein.

complete disregard for the physics of tides if you want to believe that
one minute you're catching rolling 8 foot waves with your bros in the
surf and 10 seconds later, are chilling with your homies in glass calm
water well past the surf break.

it doesn't end. the ominous unnamed beach. the seagull. the go pro (and
suddenly unattached helmet). the tide. the belief that nature ignores
tides. 

and that buoy. 

just please, please don't watch this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a couple of issues with this film (occasionally too much CGI,
and a weird ending) but for the majority of its brief, 86-minutes-long
run, this is a riveting film, exquisitely filmed in the Gold Coast of
Australia, about a survivor of a shark attack clinging to life,
figuratively and literally, on the side of a rock 200 feet from shore,
with the shark still circling the waters. 

Normally watered down PG13-rating gives way to some surprisingly grisly
bursts of gore, as she tries to suture her wounds with makeshift
surgical tools, and a couple of brutal attack scenes. 

The film makes the most of a small cast, and Blake Lively carries the
film almost entirely herself, spending at least two thirds of the film
completely isolated. Well, she's not completely alone, she also has
Steven "Sully" Seagull, as himself.
<|_=00=_|>
People often underestimate or under-appreciate the ability to produce a
genuinely good B-movie. There's Renny Harlin on one end of the
spectrum, making crap like The Legend of Hercules, 12 Rounds, and The
Covenant. But then you have someone like Jaume Collet-Serra, who knows
a thing or two about framing a scene, getting good performances from
his actors, and above all, making an entertaining movie.

The Shallows could have been an otherwise conventional and forgettable
thriller without Collet-Serra's strong and stylish direction. For
example, the scene when Blake Lively's character first gets attacked by
the shark is beautifully composed - in one unbroken take, no less - and
legitimately nightmarish, with the red blood slowly overtaking the blue
screen. It also doesn't hurt that Lively successfully carries the
entire film on her shoulders, giving what is arguably the best
performance in her career to date. There's a quiet fierceness and
admirability to her character that makes it easy to root for her
survival.

Overall, there's a lot to like about The Shallows. It's gorgeously
shot, suspenseful, emotionally gratifying, and entirely successful on
what it sets out to be - a solid B-movie, and it takes skill to pull
that off. Sure, it doesn't match the heights of either Gravity or The
Martian, but then again, its budget is a mere fraction of what those
films cost.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it a science fiction film? If only they would screen some of my
favorite movies from the sci-fi channel, they're so much better because
at least they're versatile; and they probably don't cost a dime to
make. Suspense and more suspense, it was only that. A real life shark
is bent on killing people like a serial killer! The shark patrols the
area like a human antagonist in a horror movie looking to kill anything
that enters the water when we would naturally expect it to, which
creates one predictable bloody scene and then more and more. I felt
like I was definitely obligated to give the main character special
attention for her staggering effort to stay alive rather than being
entertained by it. In this movie a shark stays in one area (Next to
stranded Nancy) for a long time and is motivated to take her down and
kills others in a very repetitive chain of events way. The film fallows
a mind-numbing 'survival' pattern with rest periods between the gory
stuff. In a sci-fi movie called 'Attack of the sabretooth' some
genetically engineered cats are bulimic and throw up after they eat so
they want to keep hunting the humans to eat more which is flat out
ridiculous and funny. In this movie a creature is motivated to keep
hunting the lead character in a supernatural way but it's boring
supernatural.
<|_=00=_|>
It first I didn't know what to expect from this movie, as it has become
so hard to take shark movies seriously, however The Shallows not only
surprised me, it is the best shark movie since Jaws and honestly the
best creature feature in ages!

At only 85 minutes, this movie absolutely makes the most of that
run-time and its 17 million dollar budget and delivers a tense,
gripping, stress inducing movie that will constantly keep you on the
edge of your seat. Blake Lively is on her way to stardom, as she
carries this entire movie and is able to act without speaking, which is
insanely hard to do. You care about her and you want her character to
survive. The movie is insanely smart and the Director deserves all the
credit in making a movie that honestly should not have worked and made
it a classic in this genre.

The shark is absolutely terrifying and the way Lively is able to not
only face off against this shark, but how she is able to make the most
over her situation while being under-prepared was not only intelligent,
but believable. The story is simple, straight forward, believable and
so genuinely crafted, stylishly executed, and not a single scene is
wasted. Director Jaume Collet- Serra will have no problem landing a
future big budget Hollywood Blockbuster and Blake Lively will soon find
herself as a leading lady more often.

The Shallows is the biggest surprise of the year, with gripping
tension, a career performance from Blake Lively, beautiful scenery, an
amazing story of will and survival and one big, mean, scary shark, The
Shallows is a Summer movie that you don't want to miss! 9 out of 10
