
This is the best theatrical film based on DC property that WB has put
out in years. Sorry fans but this blew all 3 of the cinematic universe
movies out of the freaking water. Just like the movie before it, the
LEGO Batman movie surprises yet again with a fun piece of imaginative
work. It has the humor, the action, the animation, and surprisingly
again the heart. We thought to ourselves a Lego movie would never work,
it sounds like the ultimate marketing sham Hollywood could ever put out
to sell toys, but it became one my favorite animated films of all time
why? The first movie blew me away because it not only worked as a
story, but it encompassed everything a fan of Lego remembers. In a
similar fashion, this movie encompassed everything you know about
Batman, and I mean everything. I swear there was almost a reference to
everything you remember about him, from Detective Comics all the way to
Batfleck. It sounds like I'm talking about fan service because yes, it
is most of the time. They use it to their advantage here, they praise
and mock everything great, and everything terrible Batman has gone
through over the years. You almost miss too much because they cram so
many funny nod ons and jokes you wish they had spread em out a little
bit. But In other words, the script is a hilarious tribute to arguably
one of the greatest superheroes of all time, and surprisingly the most
emotional. The focus of the film actually deals with to me a critical
factor of Batman. His isolation and loneliness, his fear of becoming
part of a family again. The special relationship Batman has with the
Joker. It hits all the emotional beats just right with all of its
themes. It utilizes it's imagination of Legos to it's potential. And it
produces a fantastic message for kids, as well as a touching tribute to
fans of Batman. Seriously this movie had a smile on my face except for
the parts when it really hit home for me. It also makes me mad, because
the film proves that WB is just sitting on a character's pile of good
material to work with, and they don't know what to do with them in
their real films. This movie has such a stronger emotional impact than
anything the DC cinematic universe has done with its last three films.
It doesn't mean DC has to sell to Disney, it doesn't mean critics are
biased against DC. It just means when you get people who know the
material well, they're gonna make it a great film if they know what to
do with it. That's what's happening here, if WB can take notes and
study why this movie really works, maybe the Justice League and Ben
Affleck's Batman film will actually make a better impact? Regardless,
this is the standard animated movies need to have outside of Disney,
and WB really needs to bring the heart this movie has into their live
action films. If you love Legos and Batman what are you waiting for??
Go now!! You don't even have to take a kid, it's a total blast for all
ages, and I will definitely be seeing it again real soon.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure how anyone can criticize this movie for anything. Its 2
movies in one. The kids see Lego's with colors, action and subtle lines
they understand, but children are more focused on the action and not
dialogue. For adults, it is full of Innuendos that keep you laughing
non stop. I literally cried from laughing so hard. 

So if a movie for a family is entertaining for the kids and makes
adults laugh and not look at watch to see "when this is over", then
that's a 10. No kids here. And my fiancée was like omg, what! When you
leave a movie still laughing and repeating lines....10. 

Kid tested, parents will hoot!
<|_=00=_|>
It's odd that this would be the movie that takes a look back at 78
years of batman and says... yeah it's silly, LET'S CELEBRATE IT ALL!!!

I actually thought some of the characters in this movie were just a
joke but nope, there really was a condiment king in the batman comics
that walked around with a ketchup and mustard guns, there was a
character called "the Eraser" that looked like a pencil!

Best of all was the most iconic villain from batman, the Joker! Just
replace the word "hate" with "love" and it's a rom-com between the two
with batman refusing to commit and Joker feeling like his "hate" was
only one sided and he deserves better, Hilarious!!!

They actually reference all of batman from the silly TV show of the
60's, the bam and kapow that pop up in the comics when he hits someone,
his dark night trilogy, you name it it's there... and sometimes they'd
even play some footage!

If you know anything, really anything at all about batman then I'd
recommend you watch this movie. age doesn't matter. The one flaw I
could think of was how fast this was going with the jokes, at times I
wish it would slow down because another one comes in before I was even
done laughing at the previous joke.

10/10 and yay for parody not being dead!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an abs-olute (you'll get that joke after you see the
movie)! It does everything a movie should do: let you escape from
reality and just enjoy yourself

The movie has jokes, action sequences, jabs at the live-action Batman
movies and shows phenomenal voice-acting, beautiful animation (like its
predecessor 'The Lego Movie' (qv), epic cameos, and most importantly a
heartfelt message!

This movie is certainly fun for the entire family-containing jokes and
entertainment that will apply to all ages at once!

What are you waiting for? See this movie!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
loved this film. i never normally laugh in the movie but did to this
(maybe because of the joint i smoked 5 minutes before but unconfirmed).
Id rate this better than the Lego movie.

I expected the story to be about Lego batman in the Lego universe but i
was pleasantly surprised to see that it was basically all DC universe
characters and settings, apart from a few villains which worked well
anyway. Master building was only mentioned once, which was nice. 

Strangely enough, this movie had better character development that the
last batman film we saw. This needs to be rated AT LEAST an 8 because i
loved it. 

highly, highly recommend. try and get later times to avoid the annoying
children narrating the entire thing
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest for a second and agree that The Lego Movie should never
have worked. On paper, it's a horrible idea. Yet, Phil Lord and Chris
Miller did what they always do - take a strange and unwieldy idea and
turn it into something great. Including Batman in The Lego Movie seemed
a bizarre choice, but the Will Arnett voiced character was a highlight
for pretty much everyone who watched it and it didn't take long until a
spin off was announced. With Lord and Miller only serving as producers
this time, the satisfaction of The Lego Movie wore off and we were all
sceptical about whether the spin off was a good idea. It turns out
that, just like last time, we never needed to worry at all.

When he isn't fighting crime as masked vigilante Batman, Bruce Wayne
(Arnett) lives in recluse in his mansion with his butler Alfred (Ralph
Fiennes). His arch nemesis, the Joker (Zach Galifianakis), rallies
together an endless group of villains to attempt to rid Gotham City of
the Batman, all while new Police Chief Barbara Gordon (Rosario Dawson)
proposes that Batman abandon his solo nature and work alongside the law
enforcement. After a misunderstanding, Wayne also accidentally adopts
local orphan Dick Grayson (Michael Cera), who he reluctantly takes on
as a protégé. Eventually, it is down to Batman, Grayson, Gordon and
Alfred to battle the Joker and save Gotham City.

If it sounds kind of mental, it's because it is. If you thought The
Lego Movie was high octane and relied on energy, it pales in comparison
to The Lego Batman Movie. But, once again, here we have a film that is
not only zany and energetic but also consistently funny, mindbogglingly
inventive, nimbly structured and genuinely touching. While it loses the
surprise effect that made The Lego Movie such a treat and its
conclusion doesn't rival the sudden foray into live action that made
its parent film so poignant, Lego Batman remains a highly enjoyable
film that puts a smile on your face from beginning to end.

I would comfortably say that this is a funnier film than The Lego
Movie. The jokes come thick and fast, a large percentage of the film is
more than prepared to drop at least three jokes per minute and they all
land. There are digs at other recent Batman stories - most notably
Suicide Squad and Batman v Superman, obviously - and multiple other
references to other films, but Lego Batman even finds room for more
adult humour (how the number plate on Bruce Wayne's car made it into
the final cut is hilariously baffling to me) and countless sight gags.
The faux stop motion animation style carves the way for some brilliant
little visual flourishes that add depth to the film's comedy - it isn't
just content to run one joke into the ground, rather it consistently
finds new comedic territory and makes every joke its own.

The way Lego Batman even lands on something genuinely moving in its
finale is even more impressive. You could make a case for the film's
central theme being a bit obvious when it comes to Batman - the whole
film is pegged around isolation and loneliness and how you combat that
to form a human relationship of any kind - but it handles it
excellently. It's written smartly enough to simultaneously act as a
life lesson for small kids as well as a powerful sentiment to older
viewers. The fact that it has a better grasp of Batman as a character
than Batman v Superman did isn't exactly surprising, but what is
surprising is just how committed to this theme the film really is.

It doesn't just form it around Batman. Young Dick Grayson feels the
same emotional distance, Barbara Gordon only wants to do well in her
first challenge as the new Police Chief, Alfred wants to help his
adoptive son refocus his life and even the Joker just wants to
comfortably know that he really is Batman's arch nemesis. It all sounds
silly, and of course it is, but Lego Batman excels whenever it combines
the silly and the thoughtful. Thankfully, that's most of its run time.
The voice acting is faultless all round, too. Arnett remains the
obvious highlight for too many reasons than can be explained, but
Michael Cera, Ralph Fiennes, Rosario Dawson, Jenny Slate, and Channing
Tatum are all delightful as well.

Lego Batman's biggest triumph, though? It perfectly reminds us that the
concept of a Lego Movie shouldn't put us off anymore. There have been
weirder franchises in cinematic history, and while this sounded like
one big cash grab from the word go, everything we have seen in this
Universe so far has been terrific. Lego Batman loses that surprise
element because about ten minutes into the film you stop worrying, you
just know you're going to have a blast. I mean, how could you not? The
less said about a plethora of other characters who appear in the film's
second half, the better - but it's hilarious and unique and wonderful
all at once. If just one film drops in 2017 that's more fun than this,
what a year it will be.

TO SUMMARISE: Dazzlingly inventive and unrelentingly funny, The Lego
Batman Movie adds another enjoyable and surprisingly moving entry to
the ever impressive Lego Movie franchise.

www.morrismovies.co.uk
<|_=00=_|>
Growing up, Lego meant everything to me, my aspirations of becoming an
architect, and even the result of me studying design engineering in
university, were all due to my fascination with Lego as a child and the
complex structures you could craft and create. In 2014, upon the
announcement of 'The Lego Movie', despite my love for the toy, I was
kinda doubting the general premise. How could you make a movie out of
Lego? Well, that question was soon answered as I gawped in awe at the
screen, the movie was fantastic. Now, the character from 'The Lego
Movie'' that garnered the most love was Batman, a cocky, sarcastic,
childish take on the superhero we know and love... well it was only
going to be a matter of time before he got his own motion picture.

'The Lego Batman Movie' was definitely an enjoyable ride, and whilst I
think it lacks in comparison to its predecessor, it stills thrusts us
back into the universe that we came to revere in 2014. With an
admirable cast of voice talent, and stunning animated visuals, 'The
Lego Batman Movie' boasts undeniable creative talent, but does at times
seem to be trying a little too hard to be funny, building off the
reputation the initial film garnered.

Is this film worth viewing? Most definitely, it's a hilarious feel-
good animated comedy, and definitely perfect for the younger audience.
I actually saw this film prior to its full release during a preview a
few days early, however I believe it may have been aimed more as a kids
matinée... I was literally the only adult there, shameful I know, but
heck, I didn't care. The kids in the audience continually laughed with
glee, so its definitely something suited for that kind of audience, but
don't skip over the older adults who are still children at heart, it's
an alluring comedy that piles on the laughs, definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the Lego Batman! And I love this movie! It is so good! The LEGO
Movie is one of my favourite films, and The LEGO Batman Movie is just
as good! Of course the universes are a bit different. The LEGO Movie is
a mix of, well, every possible universe, while The LEGO Batman movie is
mostly DC universe - with a mixture of different villains released by
Joker. Also that certain meta feeling is not there, that was in The
LEGO Movie, but that might've been good. The difference between the two
is that The LEGO Movie was, in a way, about Legos. Now the characters
in The LEGO Batman Movie are made of legos, sure, so are buildings and
all that, but it's not addressed so much. We don't have to think about
it. It could be just another superhero movie, apart from few jokes that
require Legos. 

This was so much fun! Since I obviously went to see this in English
(and since the subtitles didn't work), the audience was mostly grown
ups, and every one of us was laughing. And there were so many kind of
jokes. One of my favourites is Batman saying it would be stupid to have
villains fight villains.

And of course The LEGO Batman Movie isn't just action and fun, even
though that would've worked too. There's some pretty deep and important
stuff about Bruce getting over his fear of intimacy and all that. Of
course all that is kind of sappy, but hey, when isn't stuff like that
sappy? It's still really nice to see Bruce Wayne / Batman actually have
more character development in The LEGO Batman Movie than in the whole
Nolan trilogy. Also there are probably a lot of adults out there who
might actually see their own issues in Bruce Wayne, who is not going to
just be dark brooding Batman and never let anyone close. And also I
mean it gives children a nice lesson about family as well. Altogether
all the life lessons in The LEGO Batman Movie were so nice, and even if
they were sappy, even someone with cynic's traits might melt a bit. I
know I did.

Right now I can't think of anything wrong with this movie. It was a
great experience! It has the best parts of a children's movie and a
superhero movie. It's an excellent movie, better than any other Batman
movie, and the only Batman movie I've given a full 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Wanna see a film that will just keep you laughing all the way through
it? Well last night we certainly found one, "The LEGO Batman Movie
(2017)". Lego Batman was a film that we had been waiting to see and
last night we headed out to the theaters to enjoy some laughter.

From the start of the movie it was on! This movie was Lego at it's
finest, Batman took Lego films to a whole new level of laughter. Every
few minutes we couldn't stop giggling. The LEGO Batman Movie (2017) was
filled with Batman singing his made up songs, The LEGO Batman Movie
(2017) is a movie that made us finally feel like a kid again; awesome
from start to finish!
<|_=00=_|>
My 5 year old son had been bugging me wanting to watch this since he
first saw the trailers. Skeptically I booked tickets for a preview and
went along thinking I would let him enjoy this whilst i got an hour or
so to have a nice nap :-). From the word go this movie is hilarious
with a lot of jokes that older kids/adults will find. in certain
aspects i enjoyed this more than my kid lol. Sont of the one liners are
brilliant - especially the password that Batman has set for his
computer which is not the one he says in the trailer. A great fun movie
which took the Batman from the LEgo Movie and made it even more
awesome. A top rated movie from me.
