
Fede Alvarez just gave Green Room a run for its money with Don't
Breathe, an incredibly intense film and glorious exercise in suspense.
It's one of the best studio-produced thrillers I've seen in years. The
premise is simple: A group of teens plans to break into a blind man's
house to steal his money. Only thing, the old man is more adept than
they realize. While the setup is a little too pedestrian, albeit
economical, once the story gets rolling, the film doesn't let up,
running at a lean 88 minutes. Other than that, Don't Breathe is best
viewed going in knowing as little as possible.

This is Alvarez's first film in three years since his violent and solid
remake of Evil Dead, and it is with this sophomoric debut that
solidifies the genre filmmaker as someone with obvious talent.
Inspirations are drawn from the best - Hitchcock, Fincher, and Wait
Until Dark are a few - but Alvarez provides his own unique vision that
truly makes the film his own. Like the masters before him, Don't
Breathe is purely cinematic, relying less on dialogue and more on
visual storytelling and sound to drive the film. The cinematography is
amazing as well as the creative sound design, so much so they are
characters within the film themselves.

The cast, while small, is great too, including Jane Levy, who can
pretty much be titled this generation's scream queen after this and
Evil Dead. Dylan Minnette is good in his role as well, providing enough
sympathy for his character. Both young actors are put through hell, and
their physical performances sell their tumultuous ordeal convincingly.
However, it is Stephen Lang who is the film's shining beacon. As the
antagonist, Lang is instantly memorable and frightening, an
intimidating force that permeates throughout the film even in scenes
without his presence.

If there's one gripe about the film, there's a plot twist that doesn't
quite work, but that itself is a minor complaint compared to the many
things the film gets right and does so well. I won't say more. Don't
Breathe is a technical achievement, the rare studio film that actually
pushes what film can do as a medium. However, like with Green Room, try
not to get caught up in the hype, even with my glowing review. Set your
expectations appropriately, and remember to avoid watching the trailer.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't Breathe is a grisly, unpleasant exploitation film about
characters that you don't like going up against a man who is at first
somewhat sympathetic and then turns out to be a ridiculous mess of a
(human) monster, and it's directed with some skill. I almost wish it
had been made with greater sleaze or a total abandon for logic and
taste and become a complete Grindhouse exercise, but the problem for me
with the film is that director Fede Alvarez - again collaborating with
Evil Dead producers Sam Raimi and Robert Tapert - wants to have it both
ways, to have characters that, as the audience, you don't really like
or have sympathy for so you don't have to worry *too* much once the
psycho ex-military Zatoichi man is getting his payback... until he
wants you to like them.

There's this sense in the movie that it's dancing with a grey area of
having strong, morally ambiguous characterizations - you'll feel one
way about the young woman Rocky and her compatriots Alex and "Money"
(yeah, that's his name, like a thug on SVU or something), but maybe not
everyone will feel that way until the peril and suspense and terror
kicks in. That's fine, as well as it is with the antagonist (who, in
the alternate movie that may exist of his story, he's the protagonist).
But the problem is that the characters are set in a realistic
horror-thriller situation and yet they carry that Dumb Movie Character
logic that carries little logic at all.

This isn't the case for all of the film, and for the first half I was
with it... up to a point. It's certainly got some logic gaps that you
got to suspend disbelief for, and things like 'why if this blind
ex-military man has all this money is he on the only house on a
dilapidated Detroit city block with no one else living there, like out
of Stephen King's Roadwork or something. And the filmmaker and his DP
carry a lot of heft when it comes to the direction and the look of the
film: they know how to bring an audience in by moving the camera in
creative ways, having staging that makes sense, and pacing (in these
early scenes) that makes things intense for us just as much as the
characters... again, up to a point.

And then the movie decides to... well, here's where spoilers kick in:
the guy (he doesn't have a name so Sgt Hartman-Zatoichi works well) is
not simply some old dude living by his lonesome having lost a daughter
to a fatal hit and run. No, he has his special set of
I-can-kill-you-with-my-hands-or-my-guns, AND more than that is the
reveal that in his basement there's a lair for the woman who hit his
daughter who... he is also keeping locked up as she is knocked up with
his child so that he can replace his dead daughter and... this comes
into play even more terrifyingly in the last minutes when the girl
Rocky gets in his grasp and... Jesus Christ movie! It's around here, or
just before give or take around the moment when you think a character's
been stabbed with a pair of gardening shears but it's revealed he is
still alive(?!) (and this after seemingly to already be dead from a
no-one-survives-that-s*** fall through a window), that the movie goes
into Full Stupid and lazy territory. 

Again, I wish that if Don't Breathe leaped into completely crazy and
bonkers terrain, but it doesn't have the courage for that; it's caught
in this nexus of trying to be a legitimately creepy and fearful
experience done with direction that tries to sometimes call back to
things like Fincher's Panic Room (also a 'bottle' one-location
scenario), and being a movie with full on exploitation (the title
recalls for me Edgar Wright's DON'T trailer from the actual Grindhouse
experience), featuring characters we don't care about that are
basically drawn (though with some real emotion from the actress playing
Rocky) and thrown into nightmarish, violent set pieces.

I don't like when a filmmaker cheats me with information that's dealt
out to me. I don't like having the rug pulled out from under me even if
it's something that I should take for granted like a character survives
something they shouldn't of or a character doesn't kill someone when
they have ample opportunity to (you'll know the moment, or moments,
when they come). I leave Don't Breathe feeling rather empty and angry
instead of elated, which terrifying movies can do - see Green Room
earlier this year, also about characters caught way in over their
heads, for a much greater example of this - but its ugliness is in
multiple ways: in how it treats rape and sexual assault (it ends up
being a cheap out to having a stronger 2nd/3rd act), in how it treats
bodily wounds (come on man), the logic of having a home security system
at all if there's, you know, a RAPE DUNGEON in your basement, and how
it treats sound design. Yes, for a movie like this the sound design
gets weak after a while.
<|_=00=_|>
It's pretty rare that I get hyped for horror movies, especially modern
ones, but I was a little hyped for this. I thought the premise was
interesting, and it had potential to be scary. I wouldn't call this a
disappointment, because it misses the bare basics of what makes a good
horror movie. Next to comedy, horror is probably the hardest genre to
get right, the most important aspect a horror movie needs is relatable
characters. If the audience can connect with the people on screen, it
evokes this fear of them dying, so when they eventually do die, the
audience doesn't want it to happen. Think of great horror movies with
relatable characters; "Aliens", "The Thing", "Halloween", "Vacancy",
"The Descent", just to name a few. Apparently writing good characters
for horror movies is harder than dividing by zero, because these
characters might as well be cardboard. There are three victims, one's a
jerk, one's selfish, one's apprehensive, that is all. They never
change, and we aren't properly introduced to them, so I certainly
didn't care when they started dying. Also, one of them gets killed like
4 times, but I'll get to that later. I don't sympathize with these
characters, even though I can sort of understand their mindsets,
because they're never given a chance to change.

My second major problem, you can't see anything. The movie is so dark,
I thought my eyes were closed half the time. Not being able to see
something doesn't make it scary, it makes the audience confused and
only adds frustration. As a result of this darkness, I can barely tell
what happened to the characters, what they see, what they do, so how am
I supposed to be scared if I can't tell what the hell's going' on? The
action scenes are also edited poorly, which makes it look like one of
the characters dies 4 times. How is it that "The Descent" (a movie that
was dark because it was in a cave) had better lighting than something
filmed above ground? Was a little light too much to ask, or was it
meant to represent the killer's lack of vision?

You want to know what the twist is? Are you sure you want to know? Are
you positive? Are you sitting down? The blind guy's keeping a girl in
his basement so she can have his kid. Calm down, I know it's super
freakin' intense, except it's not. What movie advertises it's twist? Do
you realize how stupid that is? It's ruins the point of the twist.
Imagine if the trailer for "The Usual Suspects" had the twist in the
trailer, how about "Se7en", it would've ruined the suspense. This movie
thinks it's so high and mighty all because of the twist, a twist that
adds nothing to the movie. I still don't care about the characters, I
don't connect with them, I don't sympathize with them, and I still
can't see anything.

Whoever called this the best horror film in 20 years was either paid
off, or he's only seen "Saw" and "Hostel" movies. This offers nothing
new, nothing fresh, nothing unique. It's just 80 minutes of complete
darkness, stupid characters, and a twist that adds nothing to the
story, so basically, it's a modern "horror" movie. I miss real horror.
<|_=00=_|>
How did this film (and I struggle to call it that) receive so many
stars?! THAT is the real mystery here! The story centres around 3 kids
who break into houses. Two are dating, and the third-wheel is a
quasi-moral-objector who follows along because he thinks he's in love
with the girl. The girl clearly strings him along, and her scumbag
boyfriend even mentions this to the beta about how he needs to keep
himself in the friendzone where his "b*tch" put him. Yes, that's how he
refers to his girlfriend. There's a really pathetically hamfisted
attempt at making us feel some sort of sympathy for this trailer trash
princess.. because she has a crummy home life? Because her mom is rude
and has a guy-friend staying with them and asks her to go buy a frozen
pizza? Are our hearts supposed to bleed? This somehow makes it okay
that this girl chooses to be in a relationship with a thug, while
consciously stringing along a seemingly nice guy (in comparison) ...
and it's okay that she chooses a life of breaking and entering instead
of getting a fast food job (I'm from Detroit. Fast food restaurants
still exist.) or something of the like? She looks down on her mom, but
all we can see is her mom being a typical piece of foul-mouthed trailer
trash sitting around on the couch. SHE is the one out there committing
crimes.

Anyway, back to this nonsense story. They break into the house of a
blind army vet. A rich girl ran over and killed his daughter and he
settled with the family for a large sum of money. They decided (for
whatever reason) that he kept this large sum of money in his home. In
the middle of the hood. Okay. Clearly a logical assumption (based on
NOTHING. seriously. they just decided he kept the money in his house
and there's nothing that lead them to this belief. He's an amercian
citizen and a vet and he wouldn't use a bank? oh okay.) They break in
and scumbag boyfriend is the first to die. They all act like fumbling
fools and somehow this blind as hell old guy WHO HAS NO IDEA WHEN
THEY'RE STANDING INCHES AWAY FROM HIM can magically locate and
harm/kill them.

So the friend-zoned beta ended up leaving, because he never wanted to
do any of this anyway. But after he heard the gunshot he went back to
save his trailer trash princess. Why? Who not immediately call the
police? Why sneak back into the house? He sneaks back in and trailer
trash princess is hiding in the closet. He tries to talk her into
calling the cops but she says no because she saw where this old blind
guy hid his fortune and she wants it all to herself.

They end up in the basement where they find that this guy has been
keeping a hostage. The rich girl who ran over his daughter.
Friend-zoned beta once again tries to talk the girl into calling the
cops but she doesn't want to because she says "ya but then we'll have
to give back the money" She has no morals. Yet he listens to her. He
went back to save someone with no morals. I couldn't care less about
this film anymore.

Old guy ends up killing the hostage, and beta. Trailer trash girl gets
away with the money. I fast-forwaded at this point. She's in the
airport ready to "start a new life" and sees on the news this guy is
being wheeled away in an ambulance reporting that he shot and killed 2
intruders and thank god he's okay. Trailer trash girl doesn't care,
naturally. Are we supposed to be happy for her? She's gonna go off and
live her life and not tell the truth about what happened? What about
rich girl's family? They never get to find out what happened to their
kid? IMPORTANT THINGS THAT DON'T MAKE SENSE how did this blind guy get
this rich girl into his home? how did he get her into the basement (it
wasn't a proper staircase!!!!!!!!!!!) and get her tied up with all the
lighting set up juuuuuuuuuuust right. How did a blind guy set up such a
great little hostage space? AND LET'S GO BACK TO, HOW THE HELL DID AN
OLD BLIND GUY GET THIS YOUNG GIRL INTO HIS HOME. HE'S IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE GHETTO, HE'S BLIND. HE CAN'T DRIVE. HOW WAS HE ABLE TO KIDNAP THE
RICH GIRL?????????? i can't get over that! hahaha it's so stupid! this
movie is stupid. the story is stupid. the characters aren't likable. i
don't know, i want my time back.
<|_=00=_|>
Three burglars find out about a blind army vet, living in an abandoned
street, sitting on a huge amount of cash. The three burglars break
their rule of not stealing cash and decide to rob the place, thinking
it would be a piece of cake. And of course it isn't. The blind army vet
isn't as helpless as they had hoped for.

Don't Breathe is directed by Fede Alvarez, who also co-wrote the
screenplay with Rodo Sayagues. They obviously felt inspired by David
Fincher's Panic Room (2002), and did come up with a great, suspenseful
movie. The three burglars are played by Jane Levy, Dylan Minnette and
Daniel Zovatto, who all do a great job. Stephen Lang however outshines
everyone in this movie as the old blind man. He doesn't say a lot but
his gestures and mimics were enough to be uncomfortably creepy. Even
though he played a blind guy, he still made his character seem anything
but helpless, on the contrary, his character was more menacing than any
ghost, monster or murderer from your average horror movie. On the other
hand however, you feel sorry for the blind man. He's simply a man
trying to protect his house from burglars. Or is there more behind this
man? The movie does a good job making you wonder about whether the
blind man has something to hide or not. The movie does a poorer job
however with Daniel Zovatto's character, he's the typical character
every horror movie has: the asshole that talks too much and doesn't
care about anything or anyone.

Besides one or two cheap jump scares, the movie succeeded at
maintaining a lingering suspense throughout the entire movie. Once the
three burglars are inside the house, there won't be a moment that
you'll feel at ease. This is an edge-of-your-seat kind of movie. The
movie opens with a scene that obviously takes place later in the movie,
which alerts you that until that scene, the burglars will never be
safe, and heightens the suspense even more.

As the movie progresses, the twists and turns in the story start to
accumulate. Twists and turns in a story are great but not if there are
too many, and not if these twist and turns are the ones you might
expect from a horror movie. Throughout its course, the movie becomes
more and more predictable. And this is where the suspense, although
still being present, lessens. 

'Don't Breathe' is a great horror movie, accessible for people who
don't usually enjoy the genre. It has a great premise and is very
suspenseful but becomes a bit too predictable over time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so stoked to see this movie. All the horror websites I visit all
said it was awesome, can't miss it, must see, best
horror/suspense/thriller in years. Well I'll give them credit, it was
suspenseful. But not because of the acting, or the plot, or the
setting. It was suspenseful because you never knew what stupid thing
the main characters were going to do next. I was on the edge of my seat
waiting to see the next mistake. This movie was a joke. I have never
been so disappointed with a movie I was so excited to see. After the
girl escaped the house and was pinned in the car by Cujo, you knew the
Blind Man was going to get her again. I was amazed at how much trouble
these three people had with an old blind man. It doesn't matter that it
was in his environment. Who cares. It was an old blind man for gods
sake. Once he killed the first guy all bets are off. You attack him.
You find something heavy, wait around a corner, set him up by making a
little noise and BAM!!! hit him in the head. Get what u came for, and
leave. They made this guy seem like Daredevil and Rambo rolled into
one, with a little bit of The People Under The Stairs thrown in there.
I understand movies are not real life, they are stories. But this movie
was about something that could happen. This could be a real life
scenario. But there were just too many stupid moments to take it
seriously. You knew this was all make believe. You knew it was fake,
just a story, just another movie. It was just a movie, and not a very
good one. If you want to get frustrated while watching something, then
this is the movie for you. If that doesn't sound like your idea of a
good time, to me it doesn't, I recommend skipping this flick. You're
not missing anything, unlike if you watch it, because then you'll miss
about 90 minutes of your life.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to watching this film, but after the first 20
minutes or so, I found myself shouting at the screen because of the
ridiculousness of it all. After the break in, and initially being HEARD
by the blind guy, they spent half the time stood around like lemons and
sneaking around. I must have counted 8 opportunity's for them to grab
something and knock the guy

out, but did they, no. They proceeded to sneak around while be stalked
by this guy who couldn't see. It took them until the last 15 minutes to
actually find the brains to actually grab a weapon and hit him with it.
It was so comically unrealistic that it ruined the rest of the film for
me, because it actually got better half way through once they got
caught. If you don't like unrealistic and cliché films I would
recommend avoiding this one.
<|_=00=_|>
A rating higher than 2 for a film like this one either means that 

a) The average IQ of the population dropped below 70 b) The review are
fake or submitted by family members of the people involved with this
piece of junk.

In which planet, dimension, galaxy three healthy individuals are
overpowered by one blind guy?

And the girl in the basement subplot was an imbecilic attempt of
padding the film with extra violence porn. 

The whole film is a succession of stupider and stupider decisions by
the main protagonists, that is all there is to it.

It is disappointing to realize what passes as entertainment these
days...
<|_=00=_|>
The central theme lying at the heart of 'Don't Breathe' is the sense of
claustrophobia, a sense of being trapped/imprisoned. The director shows
us a number of appropriate images like window bars, bars outside gates,
prison like shadows being cast by Venetian blinds,etc. to drive home
the theme. This theme resonates both in a literal sense with the kids
being imprisoned in the house that they had planned to rob in the first
place, as well as on a broader symbolic level because it is made clear
that these youngsters aspire to break out of the 'prison' of life in a
financially ailing Detroit and head for California. 

This film at the heart of it is an exploitation film and certain
details get revealed with the passage of time that in keeping with the
genre of exploitation cinema, flirt with lack of realism and force you
to suspend disbelief a bit. But what made it very easy for me to
suspend disbelief and go along with the ride was Fede Alvarez's
direction. Without his masterful directorial skills and storytelling,
this film will not work, full stop. He elevates the film. The Giallo
inspired visual texture that he uses with the red and green neon lights
not just makes the film look vibrant, but also serves a thematic
purpose. His camera is extremely active and he makes use of space in
the interiors of the house skilfully. He uses extended long takes to
raise the tension and his use of ambient noises and music is subtle and
brilliant. The very first shot of the film itself is masterful in the
way the camera moves from an overhead position gradually to a ground
level one to reveal what's happening along with a gradual rise in the
volume of the music. 

Stephen Lang has to be admired for his performance. He brings a very
raw, masculine physicality to his demeanour that truly makes him
terrifying at times.

I think this is one of the best directed horror/thriller films I have
seen for some time. It doesn't spend too much time in developing its
characters. Both the sides in the conflict are not worth unconditional
sympathy. The youngsters are low time criminals and the blind man is
not someone worth sympathy either once certain details about his life
and mental condition get revealed. I guess it was intentional on the
director's part to stage the film with a degree of moral ambiguity
where the viewer doesn't fully care for either of the two parties and
in the end it works within the exploitation film framework. 

To end, I'll say 'Don't Breathe' is a film that I would recommend more
for the direction than for the script itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Was looking forward to this ever since April/July this year & couldn't
wait to see it. The story/concept sounded really interesting & looked
as though it was going to be a pretty good film with a unique concept.

Unfortunately, the film just lost it's buzz & excited as soon as it
began. The film concept is simple, 3 teens break into a blind mans home
(he's an Ex War Veteran) & steel his compensation money. It seemed to
be a good film & sounded it, but it didn't deliver in a way I thought
it would. It kept me excited when I first heard about it but when it
came to watching I wasn't as blown away by it. 

I mean, don't get me wrong. The film was alright & had some suspenseful
moments which kept you watching. It was creepy & had some jumpy moments
in it. It also found it interesting to see what they could do with the
concept of an Ex War Veteran who is blind & how he uses his military
army skills to combat these intruders. As everyone would assume he's
the vulnerable one & these 3 intruders have the upper hand, though we
all know the film wants us to assume that. But know differently.

But anyway, it was poor & disappointing as it got to the end. I also
found that none of the characters, not even the creepy jerk were
likable or even redeeming. You couldn't feel sorry for the intruders
because of their nasty heartless intentions (well 2 of the 3 as only 1
of them had a heart... slightly), & you certainly couldn't feel sorry
for the War Veteran as he also had a dark nasty little secret down in
his basement. So it was pretty difficult who to root for. 

I also had problems with the continuity errors, like the dog
disappearing & reappearing at random points. Also the plot holes, like
the police not finding the DNA of the female intruder who shredded
enough blood to fill a bucket & enough hair to cover a bald gits head!
Unbelievable. 

The female soul survivor ending was clichéd, cheap & just plain sexist!
This is 2016 & these idiots still go for that? Hah! This is coming from
someone who says the film doesn't reply on "cheap scares" oh the irony!
So, she got away with the money, left her friends for dead & that poor
old git get's robbed blind (pardon the pun) & doesn't say sh!t despite
DNA evidence in the house that could place her at the scene of the
crime! Layabouts like her expect to earn money by not getting a job,
typical in this day & age!

The kills were tame & the blood lacked in certain areas, again another
boner from the director saying his Evil Dead remake was too gory!
Idiot, that's what we need! Films now have really gone down hill for
slashers what happened to the days of SAW, Final Destination & Scream!?
Not to mention Wrong Turn, Halloween, Friday 13th need I go on? Now
everything has to be clever & smart & not straight forward! This film
could've ended so much better had that git killed all those nobs!

The film did exactly what the first intentions of anyone's ignorant
minds did. Blind man's home, has a ton load of £££. Should be easy
money! Well it pretty much was when the film started & ended! Didn't
have a twist ending where none of them lived or they got caught etc.

They pretty much did break in & take his money. I mean, it wasn't easy,
aside from a few scuffles, nearly being forced upon by a squirter
filled with old man's cream, getting shot repeatedly & assaulted
brutally they got there in the end... just about!

But in a nut shell, that's exactly what she (they) did! Not a clever
film it's hyped up to be! Watch The Strangers or The Purge! Least they
deliver well unlike this poor disappointment.

4/10 Could've been SO much better!
