
Key and Peele have established themselves with their show as two of the
leaders of small screen comedy. Their brand of comedy pokes fun at
stereotypes and generic film tropes, with heavy influences from the
cinema world. Their skits are often cinematic and ridiculous, but in
the best kinds of way. Now, they carry that over to an actual movie and
the results are often times hilarious. While not always successful,
when they are, Keanu is laugh out loud funny. With huge influences from
traditional cinema, ranging from romantic comedy to 80's action, Keanu
covers a range of genres, providing that same ridiculous kind of comedy
fans are used to.

The film kicks off with a bang, delivering a stylish opening action
scene that introduces us to the titular Keanu, a cute-beyond-words
kitten that you immediately fall in love with. We're then introduced to
our dynamic duo, Rell, a man-child lacking direction in his life who
has recently lost his girlfriend, and Clarence, the straight arrow of
the two who is happily married, but is so caught up in trying to please
everyone else, he never takes time for himself. Once Keanu enters the
picture, the two find themselves spiraling downward into a world of
gang warfare, crime, and mistaken identity, all in pursuit of
retrieving the adorable little Keanu.

If you've seen Key & Peele, the humor here will feel familiar. Working
under the show's director, Peter Atencio, and with Peele in the
writer's seat, all have a firm grasp of how to craft cinema and then
skewer it. Both characters constantly feel out of place while at the
same time handling themselves well, and much of the comedy comes from
both the familiar fish out of water story and some surprises. What
helps is that the film never really feels forced. Our heroes never feel
too unnatural in their actions, though it is slightly mystifying that
they are continuously believed to be tougher than they actually are.
The action is well done too, with it feeling like it wouldn't be out of
place in an action movie. And Keanu replacing what would be a person in
distress makes for a hilarious spoof on traditional damsel- in-distress
type tropes. Our villains also fare well, with one particular hilarious
scene seeing Clarence bond with other gangsters over George Michael
music. 

As stated above, not every joke works, with several falling flat or
getting little more than a chuckle, but more often than not the movie
knows when to end a joke or just what to do to surprise or make the
audience laugh. It also helps to know movies well to catch several of
the references or tropes. Where the film could have made many missteps,
it makes wise decisions in terms of balancing comedy, action, and drama
and knows when it's comedy may be going too far and for too long. I
often wondered if Key and Peele would take their comedy to the film
world, as they have always clearly loved movies, and now that they've
finally done so, they have delivered. Not a perfect comedy, but a very
funny one and shows that the two have promise for a future in the
cinema world. It's my hope that Keanu is just the beginning for these
two.
<|_=00=_|>
it is always difficult to combine excessive violence and comedy and
come out with something that works. Here is another example of why it
doesn't work. There is nothing funny about murders and gangs shooting
it out. 

The cat who never grows past being a kitten is the highlight of the
movie. It is watchable when there is a cute cat on screen. Most of the
other stuff you have seen before. There's the club, the drugs and the
salty redundant language.

There is no need to pay to see this in a theater. It will play just as
mediocre on a home platform. A cat might have nine lives. Unless you
have time to spare, no need to waste it on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge fan of Key and Peele. Their show was my whole existence and
I still go around doing the "I said biiiitch" skit everywhere I go. So
with this, I was expecting a good bit of laughs to come of 'Keanu' but
I was left a little disappointed. 'Keanu' was not a total fail, it had
its moments, in my opinion, but to me it felt like an overly drawn out
K&P skit on their show. Mostly a third season skit at that. Key and
Peele themselves were naturally hilarious as usual. Their deliverance
is perfect it was just the material was beaten to death to me. Overall,
not terrible but not great. Just an average comedy from excellent
comedians.... The cat was cute though.
<|_=00=_|>
Who hasn't been waiting for Key and Peele to put out a movie together?
'Key and Peele' was one of the best sketch comedy shows of recent
memory. Their dynamic on screen is always must watch television and so
we were all waiting to see how it would translate to the big screen.
For the most part, Keanu works. It does a good job of incorporating the
same humor from their show into the film. I just wish they pushed it
even further. There are plenty of laugh out loud moments, but the plot
of Keanu falls back into clichéd territory far too often.

It's largely a spoof of action films in the same vein as the avidly
popular Jump Street films. Instead of going undercover to take down
drug dealers, the duo played by Key and Peele, pretend they are drug
dealers to win back the kitten that was taken from them. But besides
that, the plot unravels exactly as you would expect. You could make the
argument that it's not even necessarily a full on spoof, especially
with its attempt at drama quite a few times throughout the film.

With that said, when the laughs hit, they hit hard. There's something
about the quick witted banter between Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan
Peele that it becomes addicting to watch after a while. I just feel
they could have taken it a step further. The runtime feels a little
long in the tooth too, especially towards the climax.

The supporting cast is okay, with a few surprises here and there, but
the real hero here is Keanu the kitten. It isn't named Keanu by
accident, and I enjoyed how they played off his name throughout the
film. But don't go in expecting Keanu to be the center focus. The
kitten only gets like 25 minutes of screen time, but it isn't wasted.

Overall, Keanu features the incredible duo of Key and Peele and fans of
the sketch show will no doubt walk away loving this, but there was
still some untapped areas to be tackled. Whether it's a sequel to
Keanu, a return to TV, or a completely fresh idea, I'm down to watch
anything these guys do.

+Incredible duo

+Brilliantly stupid premise

-But it ends up feeling cliché and uninspired

-Uneven

6.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the best comedies that I have seen in some time; that
isn't to say you will fall out of your seat laughing - but the laughter
was consistent from beginning to end, and that is pretty much the only
thing that matters to me when I decide to go see a comedy. 

Seeing how this movie was a clear reference to Keanu Reeves "John
Wick", at least as far as the marketing is concerned, I thought the
movie would be more of a direct spoof of that movie; but it wasn't - it
was more so just a general action comedy and I wouldn't even go so far
as to call it a "spoof" movie even though they were certainly playing
off well known action tropes. 

My bottom line: Is this movie worth shelling out the $ to go see in the
theater, in my opinion, yes it is. Get some friends and go have some
good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Key and Peele, in their first starring vehicle, play a pair of soft
suburban dudes who somehow find themselves acting like thuggish,
grizzled killers to retrieve a stolen kitten (the titular Keanu). It's
a terrible screenplay, but at least the laughs are there for the first
act. After that, it falls into endless re-hashes, basically telling the
same two or three jokes against a different backdrop for the length of
the picture. I loved these guys on TV, but Keanu doesn't do a great job
of highlighting their versatility and eventually goes beyond satire to
become exactly the type of movie they're lampooning. Would've made a
hilarious five-minute fake trailer on the small screen, which may shine
a light on the type of growing pains to expect if they continue this
transition to feature-length material.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedy is subjective. Trying to explain why something does or doesn't
make you laugh is like trying to explain why you think certain foods
are delicious; how do you make someone experience your experience? For
example, the sketch show "Key & Peele", while often a smart satire on
race and sex, was simply and inexplicably hilarious to me. On the other
hand, Keanu, a film created and starring the same dudes, has (arguably)
nowhere near the laughs. Despite some all-in comedic performances from
two of the most talented guys around, it simply isn't very funny.
Through a series of unfortunate events, two mild-mannered men go
looking for a kitten and find themselves in the midst of a war between
competing drug gangs. Key and Peele display the same
comedy-in-sync-ness they became famous for, and they deserve a vehicle
much better than this to display their skill. Unfortunately the movie
itself never quite finds its balance. It's an absurdist comedy that
feels both too absurd and not absurd enough. The plot is shoddy at
best, and the shallow levels of character give way to whatever joke
seems to be funniest at that moment. None of that would matter, of
course, if I just found the movie more consistently funny. Not that
it's devoid LOL moments; Key and Peele both have a knack for putting a
twist on a line or a facial expression to give it an added layer of wit
(i.e. how they act when they think they're about to be killed).
Unfortunately, they have created such anticipation through years of
brilliant TV work, anything less than wall-to-wall guffaws can be a
disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
Rell (Jordan Peele) has just lost his girlfriend, her decision. Now he
is a couch potato, crying and smoking weed. His pal Clarence (Keegan
Michael Key), however, is happily married to a beautiful gal (Nia
Long). Meanwhile, a meth lab is raided and all of the cookers are,
well, "cooked" and drugs stolen. However, one being makes it out alive.
A darling kitten runs frantically away and makes it to Rell's doorway.
Wow, this wee cat arrives just at the right moment to heal Rell's
heart! Naming the feline Keanu, things are looking up. Its not for
long. While Rell is out, the members of a gang raid his house,
mistaking his house for his neighbor's, a low level drug dealer. They
take Keanu! With Clarence's wife going out of town, Rell convinces his
C-pal to help him get back Keanu, even if they have to become "fake
gangsters" to infiltrate the network of bad guys and thieves. Can these
two basically decent guys truly dive into a dangerous world and act
like tough killers? What if one of the gang members, Hi-C, starts to
capture Rell's heart? First, this is not my kind of film, being too
violent and raunchy. I confess I watched it because a) I was with a pal
who suggested it, b) I love cats and c) I like funnymen like Key and
Peele. The darling cat and the two stars are the only reasons to watch
it, truly. Otherwise, there are shootouts, strip clubs, and bad
language in abundance. Therefore, unless you can keep your thumb on
fast forward, you might want to skip it. Hopefully, Peele, Key, and
Keanu will all make a family film next time out.
<|_=00=_|>
'Keanu' is one of those movies that you watch the trailer for and
think,"That could either be really good or really bad". Unfortunately
for anyone that is a fan of Key & Peele (as I am) you will sorely
disappointed. I envy those that can watch a copy and paste movie and
still find it as entertaining as the last movie that did that. Because
I can't get sucked into a film that doesn't do anything new. And
'Keanu' doesn't do anything new at all. In fact it shameless rips tons
of different movies off. Being a comedy, I expected this to happen
here, but I also expected it to rip things off in a clever way. Never
in the film did I get the impression that they were parodying any of
this

The most heinous, shameless rip off is it's plot line. Which was
basically just a reskinned, less entertaining version of '21 Jump
Street'. The story is literally about two guys that infiltrate a gang
to find something or someone. Right off the bat it's clear they don't
belong in this world but they do enough dumb things to gain the gangs
respect.

After getting in good they realize that they may be in too deep. There
is even a scene where one or more of the main characters gets super
high and hallucinates. Exactly like the Jump Street movies. The only
difference here is that it is not done in clever or funny way.

Most of the film is like this. Shamelessly ripping off other, better
movies. The worst part is it neither acknowledges or makes fun of the
way that it's doing this. It acts like everything it's doing is
completely original and hopes that you won't notice. Not mention that
most of the things that happen don't even matter to the plot at all. 

Nearly half of the film is filled with scenes that do absolutely
nothing to further the plot. It stops the movie, tells a couple bad
jokes, and gets back to things. Yet, it doesn't do it that quickly.
There is one scene in particular where they are in a mansion with Anna
Faris that drags on for way to long. It goes on for ten or fifteen
minutes telling the same jokes on loop over and over.

"Oh, this isn't gangster man. Wtf". "You guys aren't real gangsters if
you don't listen to this." And queue laugh track. (spoiler) As if the
film isn't standard enough it even has the whole, one main character is
actually a cop twist ending. By that point I was no longer laughing
with the movie, I was laughing at the movie. And at all the incredibly
dumb things it did.

I kid you not there is a scene where a wife calls her husband and says
that a trusted friend tried something bad to her. Naturally he wants to
know what it was but she inexplicably hangs up before she tells him.
Then she gets back to him and he just knocks the guy out. Like, I
thought that was a friend. Plus, you don't even know what he did. No
one on earth would do what you just did. Why did this happen?

It, like many other parts of this movie, seemed to be thrown in just to
get a laugh. The writers didn't think about logic or reason but instead
opted for a cheap chuckle. The entire film was filled with moments that
were so bad but easy to fix. It was clear that the writers didn't care
about making a good movie and instead simply wanted to pump this out.
Nothing made any sense and no one bothered asking about it.

However, I will say that Key & Peele continue to have great chemistry.
They gave very committed performances and were one of very few saving
graces. The only other one would be the absurd story. The plot is very
tired, boring, and predictable but it's story concept is just absurd
enough to work. It was fairly fun to see every single person want this
random cat. And it made the odd motivations a little easier to forgive.
That being said, I would not recommend this film. It's overlong, dull,
flat, predictable, and remarkably unfunny.
<|_=00=_|>
Assassins (Jordan Peele, Keegan-Michael Key) shoot up a drug factory. A
kitty escapes. Rell Williams (Jordan Peele) is depressed after getting
dumped by his girlfriend. He is lifted up by finding the kitty on his
doorstep and he names her Keanu. His cousin and best friend Clarence
Goobril (Keegan-Michael Key) needs to man up for his wife Hannah (Nia
Long). Rell's home is ransacked and Keanu goes missing. Small time
dealer Hulka (Will Forte) points the finger at a local gang. The guys
take on gangster persona "Tectonic" and "Shark Tank". They meet Hi-C
(Tiffany Haddish) and leader Cheddar (Method Man) who mistakes them for
the assassins Allentown Boys.

Firstly, the kitty is really cute. The guys have great chemistry. The
ridiculous premise is set up for outrageous humor. There are some cute
laughs at times but it doesn't stay at a high enough level. It's funny
skit material but it doesn't fill out. It's a little thin. The movie
tries to add a couple of comedic performances from Will Forte and Anna
Faris. They only really hit singles rather than home runs. The movie
needs to be more ridiculous. It needs to take on the gangsta genre in a
deeper way. The guys are capable of more.
