
Now where to Begin .. from Acting to Screenplay to Editing everything
was rubbish to be honest . Now a days we only go to the theater just
for the nostalgia of Feluda Series and those who really loved the works
of Satyajit Ray return home empty handed with the hope of a better
movie next year and the cycle goes on 

I was really intrigued when Sandip Ray announced about the reboot and
expected a lot from the movie but after wasting 2 hrs finally realized
that we will never get a better product under Sandip Ray's direction.

Poor story selection , Not enough modification to fit the story in the
modern world nor any interest in recreating the India of 60's or 70's ,
Stupid monotonous background music all the time , poor acting from
Topshe and horrendous screenplay and dialogue sums up the movie as
always like the previous Sandip Ray Feluda films. ( except
Baksho-Rahashya which was a better product among the list )

Abir tried to do what he could but his acting was very much like his
other series of Anjan Dutta where he plays Byomkesh and did a better
work in my opinion

Stop watching Feluda films till we get a better director .. Waste of
time
<|_=00=_|>
Going in, other than having heard of Satyajit Ray's Felu da, and having
been a devoted follower of 'Byomkesh Bakshi' (Rajat Kapoor's), I had
some idea of what to expect, even taking into consideration Sandip
Ray's talents behind the camera as well (was not gonna be disappointed
just because the younger Ray's not a patch on his dad).

What was "interesting" for me, going in, was that this was one more
from the Sree Venkatesh films stable, and their 'efforts' on 'Chander
Pahad' were, ahem, passable at best (though their distribution was
strong), to say the least, and I was primed for something as
"interesting" as that one here.

On the plus side, the flick looks good, though with colors seemingly
artificially muted, and some of that might have had to do with the
digital projection on play at the multiplex I watched this one in. Most
of the performances, save the leads' (perhaps more a fault of direction
than the performers themselves) were good, esp. from the actors playing
Bonobihari Babu and a myriad of supporting characters. The lack of a
strong female character was strongly felt, and I do not know why this
aspect was not updated, since they decided to up'date' various other
elements in the flick, including the setting and some technological
aspects, which may be considered un-ignorable.

The music was made-for-TV, and Ray should have tried to used someone
else. Doesn't work at all.

What was completely irritating to me, were the obvious double-takes
from Tapesh's character, and the smug
I-know-more-than-everyone-here-because-I've-read-the-script- haha kinda
moments sprinkled liberally throughout the flick.

Poor characterization, esp. on the negative characters, makes the movie
suffer greatly. SPOILER/s - How can one take any baddie seriously who,
just like in teen movies/TV, just throws 'beware' paper+stone messages
and runs away? Simply put, there's no way anyone can take them
seriously in this day and age. In fact, the main lead actually
articulates that in one scene, where he says that the baddies had not
been smart at all. Perhaps that was the only self-aware crack in the
entire flick. Duh.

The CGI on-screen is some of the crappiest ever committed on celluloid,
but consistent for a Sree Venkatesh 'effort'. In spite of the fact
that, it had some decent camera-work in places, for some reason, when
it went all 'Anthony Bourdain' when focusing on local Lucknowi
food/places. In fact, during a few key sequences, the tone completely
changes to that of a travelogue, almost as if Ray wanted to make a
different kinda flick.

For the first 10 to 15 minutes, the English sub-titles are also very
slow, almost like 30 seconds behind the audio unfolding on-screen. They
then miraculously get rectified after. Not complaining, but that aspect
did stand out during its runtime.

All in all, while this is not a total write-off, making a trek to the
multiplex is not warranted, and this one can be caught on TV, and that
too as a diversion if nothing better's playing.
<|_=00=_|>
Sandip Ray's previous Feluda-venture 'Royal Bengal Rahasya' (2011) was
no less than a masterpiece. And considering the book 'Badshahi Angti'
is one of the best Feluda adventures ever, I was expecting this to
become the best Feluda-movie of all-time. But the overall experience
left me discontented.

The film was essentially a tale of two halves. The 1st half was almost
a disaster. One of the hall-marks of the Ray-films are the adrenalin-
pumping openings, aided with pulsating background music. But since RBR,
Ray has inexplicably decided to do away with these 2 USPs of his films.
While these were the only drawbacks in RBR, here it spoils the mood to
such an extent that it never gets recovered until post-interval. It's
not that there weren't any options. From Pierilal's death to the
burglary in Dr. Srivastav's house, there were possibilities galore; but
the director simply didn't show any interest!

The intro-scene of the new Feluda-&-Topshe is well-shot. But after that
the entire episode involving Dr. Srivastav and the 'ring' is narrated
through simple dialogues for 10-15 minutes, which is not just boring
but also tough to follow! There should have been some use of
flash-backs or graphic depiction of the history of the ring (as in
'Gorosthane Sabdhan') to add some element of interest. Even after that,
the 'Bhool Bhulaiya' is another letdown. Some of the long-shots are
digitally implanted which don't evade the eye. Things pick up from the
visit to Banabihari Babu's residence; but that's not enough to salvage
the 1st half.

Just when I had resigned to this being another disappointment from Ray
after 'Jekhane Bhooter Bhoy' (2012), the man engineers a stunning
comeback in the 2nd half! It becomes an altogether different film post-
interval with the events picking up pace and the mystery thickening.
The audiences are forced to apply their brains all through or else they
run the risk of losing track... just as it should have been from the
start. It seemed the director had finally rose from his slumber after
snoozing all through the 1st half!

The cinematography is one of the high-points of the film as it captures
all the myriad beauties of Lucknow and Haridwar in all its splendor
(Although the detailed closeups of the Galouti Kebab and Biriyanis were
comical!). The VFX of the animals are satisfactory by Tollywood
standards.

Cast-wise, Abir Chatterjee's pre-built image as Byomkesh makes it all
the more easy to accept him as Feluda. Sourav Das as Topshe could have
been better, while Paran Bannerjee is a revelation in perhaps the
strongest role of his career! It's only Tathagata who manages to stand
out among the rest of the cast. Special mention must be made of Dwijen
Bannerjee whose particular casting was a masterstroke!

The film is a clean-&-simple family entertainer; but not a proper
suspense-thriller. Although the director continues with the whodunit
format, the eventual disclosure of the culprit won't come as any
surprise to anyone (unlike RBR). It's because just 2 of the wide-bevy
of characters are properly cultivated and developed. Hence, the other
characters don't arise any kind of suspicion, which is unlike the
novel. This is one of the few stories featuring Topshe's father and I
had hoped for his interactions with Feluda-&-Topshe to be explored a
bit more.

This isn't Ray's best Feluda-film by any stretch (even 'Kailashe
Kelenkari' and 'Tintoretor Jishu' were better films for their times);
but it's far better than his non-Feluda flicks like JBB or 'Chaar'.
What's worrying is that the man has turned an outstanding novel like BA
into just a moderately good film. Hence, when he adapts a not-so-good
'Gangtoke Gondogol' up-next, one must really keep their fingers crossed
for the end-result...!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the movie with a great expectation and the movie is
really so good but not so good like previous films of the series.I
think MR.

Ray tried to make this a short film because the novel is really big but
the movie is not so big.RAY literally tried to make this a short film
which is i think ridiculous.All the characters were played by good
actors but i think the villain literally made a joke out of the
character as described by the writer.but overall it's a really good
film and those who are remained to watch the film please go and see
it.it will not disappoint you.all the actors did a wonderful job.
<|_=00=_|>
3 Great Movies in hand ("PK" , "Bomkeysh Fire Elo" n " Badsahi Angti")
and I have to choose only one because lack of time to see all three.
But it's not a big shot for me as my own Hero "Feluda" is there in the
field and also my automatic choice. It's great to see a houseful hall
(at 6pm show) even in ISL final evening where Atletico de Kolkata was
there.

To write a review on Feluda Movie is very easy as there is no fear of
delivering spoilers , even doesn't need to focus about any space
regarding the story , as each n everyone was a masterpiece by the
Magician, Particularly this one" Badsahi Angti" which is very close to
our heart. This was one of the stories at the beginning of the series,
at his (Feluda) young age, where he still didn't have a revolver but
this was the story where he established the fact that he came to stay
in our heart forever.

Once in an interview Sandip Ray told that his Father always believe in
the fact that to make a thriller movie from a story which everyone
knows, reveal the villain First (as he did in "Sonar Kella" n "JoyBaba
Felunath") and then draw the 'Cat' n 'mouse' game correctly .It's the
way to bring back the audience twice in the hall. But In "Badsahi
Angti" it's not possible (it is one of the toughest Feluda story to
draw on screen I think )and correctly here he doesn't follow his
father's way , rather he stick to the story as it is in the book, line
by line with every minute details (like throwing of cig. By Feluda In
his own way).As a result the story came alive on the screen like a
running commentary. Tight Script, No looseness, line by line dialogues,
scenes, handy graphics, original n new background score (Particularly,
of the animals were really great) make the presentation smarter. Sandip
Ray also believes that every Feluda story is a journey and so also we.
He tried hard To Establish this fact with various great locations of
Lucknow, Haridwar in a very beautiful way. With his smart directions
the Railway stations, Bare Imam Bara , Residency , roads n crowds of
Lucknow , Har Ki Pauri Ghat , Ganges added the much needed tour effect.

Regarding acting we see a new Feluda here n Abir Chatterjee Justifies.
With a younger look (needed according to the story) down to earth
voice, less talkative nature, expressions, attitude He properly placed
his foot in the shoe. Rather I don't like Sourav Das as Topse. He
failed to produce the dilemma of innocence and intelligence in his
character (though to produce this, is really tough indeed to a
newcomer). Hope he will do better in next seasons. Other actors are
also very good n properly fitted in their role. But frankly speaking
Paran Bandopadhyay steals the show(YES and in a Feluda movie from
Feluda !!!!) from first to last scene with his new look and awesome
acting. Just Speechless. On a whole a Great Feluda Movie without
destroying the Pages.

So Friends start your English Festive Season Surely with this FIRST n
FAST. 

Note: It will be far better if I saw my most wanted childhood horror
"the Rattle snake" in real without graphics.

Take home message: Nothing. Just awesomenessFeluda is Best, Feluda is
Best.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched Badshahi Angti today, nice film with genuine twists, I didn't
read the story. Abir as Feluda is simply Amazing, though I missed
Sabyasachi's Baritone & Attitude, but Abir & Topse (played by Sourav)
are really Refreshing. Paran Banerji was Brilliant as the Villain, He's
such a gr8 actor. I'll eagerly wait for the next Feluda film just for
Abir, he played Feluda with a nice attitude & Personality,completely
different from his Byomkesh Portrayals. Special mention for the scenic
beauty of Lucknow, very well shot by Sandip Ray, the director. It's a
nice detective film to watch with your family.

The story revolves around a stolen ring with precious stones from
Mughal age. It has it's fair share of twists & turns, many of you have
read the story. But those like me who haven't read it, it'll be very
surprising
<|_=00=_|>
The film is quite impressive when compared to Sandip Ray's previous
films. Simply put it's a good story told to a tee. The positive factors
are the tight script, well supported background music, and the nice use
of camera in giving us a taste of Nawabi Lucknow. 

Yes, the film could have been better. There are certain aspects which
could have made a difference like the acting prowess of Soumitra
Chatterjee to bring alive the character, intelligent and tighter script
for which Satyajit Ray was well known, and lastly the presence of
Jatayu to add another dimension (though we do not have Jatayu in the
story of Badshahi Angti). These aspects together could have provided a
much tighter integration with the concept of Feluda that is so well
ingrained in the minds of middle-class Bengali. But shortcomings are
simply beyond the control of the present director. 

So it is not fair to always fall back on earlier films of Satyajit Ray,
and come out with a criticism. On the contrary we should praise the
fact that in spite of all the inherent shortcomings Sandip Ray has
managed to come with a smart and absorbing Feluda film. So, watch the
film as it is without carrying the past movies in mind. Thanks to
Sandip Ray and his whole film unit in making this Feluda film a
success.
