
I just saw this movie yesterday and I am a Christian. I think that is
important to mention because there will be some people who simply don't
like the movie because they don't like Christian films. So here is my
honest review: When I first saw the trailer I thought this movie was
going to be decent, but not great. I thought it would probably be the
formulaic Christian film that most of us have seen over and over again.
Most of these films have flat Christian characters put in tough
circumstances that never cause them to truly struggle with their faith,
which is why most people find Christian films to be unrealistic. This
is not the case with Miracles from Heaven. 

This film has incredible performances by the entire cast, especially
Jennifer Garner and Kylie Rogers. The film perfectly balances the story
with aspects of faith. The core of this story is about a mother
suffering with her daughter's pain and health. What I was not expecting
was to feel as though I was a part of this story. The film immersed me
in what it would be like to be going through this struggle. This movie
will make you cry in the sad moments and in the happy moments because
you will feel as though this is your family. That is why this film
transcends other Christian films. The moments where God is mentioned
don't feel as though they are forced and preachy. Those moments are
carefully woven and important to the family's journey through a
terrible illness. It surpassed my expectations. 

That's why I recommend going to see it. "Miracles are God's way of
showing us that He's here." - Miracles from Heaven
<|_=00=_|>
The film is beautifully shot, and really well acted, seriously the best
performance of Jennifer Gardner's career she really lived it! Every one
in it did a good job but especially the little girl that is the main
character. And its a true story! I really don't understand how anyone
could not like this film. I'm an actress and fairly critical because I
see film technically as well as story wise, but this one really stands
up! The story was wonderful. I loved it! I cried my eyes out, I
connected with the characters and cared about their journey and it left
me thinking. In the end what more do we want from a film! I really hope
Jennifer Gardner gets some recognition for this role she earned it!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very stirring and emotionally moving. It really captures
the emotions and the crisis of faith that must be the experience of
those who must watch their children suffer in any way.

The directing is very good and the cinematography is well done. When I
started watching the movie I expected the characters to be somewhat
plastic. To my delight, this was not the case. The characters seemed
real, human, and relatable.

However, it is the performance of Jennifer Garner as Christy Beam (the
Mom) and Kylie Rogers as Anna Beam (the daughter) that put it over the
top. 

I very much recommend this movie
<|_=00=_|>
I was a little trepid due to the religious undertones of this movie ...
but ... I loved it! The casting is excellent, and just because Queen
Latifah isn't doing a SNL impression doesn't mean she didn't do a good
job in a character role. It's called acting.

The actress who played Anna was fantastic too, in fact the whole family
was. BUT the stand out star by far was Jennifer Garner. To those
critics who condemn her to Alias / Daredevil and other such ilks I say
"not any more". Since Dallas Buyers Club she has shown she can adapt
and is not only a fantastic character actor but that she is capable of
leading a movie.

Garner has both warmth and strength, two characteristics I'm sure the
real life mother had too. You can't help but buy in to this family and
this story and I'm really glad I saw it.
<|_=00=_|>
'MIRACLES FROM HEAVEN': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

A faith-based Christian drama flick, adapted from the memoir (of the
same name) by Christy Beam. Beam tells the story of her 10-year-old
daughter; who suffered from an incurable disease, and then was suddenly
cured from it (after having a near-death experience). The movie deals
with Christy's struggles with her faith, while coping with her
daughter's tragic illness. Jennifer Garner stars in the film, as
Christy Beam, and it costars Kylie Rogers, Martin Henderson, Eugenio
Derbez and Queen Latifah. It was directed by Patricia Riggen (who also
helmed 'THE 33', last year), and it was scripted by Randy Brown (who
also wrote 2012's 'TROUBLE WITH THE CURVE'). The movie only received
mixed reviews from critics, but it did surprisingly well at the Box
Office (where viewers raved about it). I enjoyed it as well.

The story takes place in Burleson, Texas (in 2011). Christy Beam
(Garner), and her husband Kevin (Henderson), are devastated to learn
that one of their daughters, 10-year-old Anna (Rogers), suffers from
pseudo-obstruction motility disorder. The disease makes it so Anna is
unable to consume food, without tubes. It's also deadly, and incurable.
Christy doesn't understand how this could have happened, to her
Christian family (that always goes to church regularly). She struggles
to keep her faith, and then is amazed to learn of her daughter's
miraculous recovery (possibly because of it).

I was raised strictly Catholic, and I always attended church regularly
(as a child), so I'm always interested in any movies that deal with
religion. I'm not usually that impressed, with the average 'overly
preachy' ones (that mostly just 'preach to the choir'), but this one is
really well made. Garner's performance is amazing, and Riggen's
direction is equally as impressive. The movie seems a little clichéd,
and gimmicky, but for the most part it's pretty emotional (I cried
multiple times). It's also kind of inspiring. The film is actually one
of those rare Christian movies that's worth the time to watch!

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/UotWSwc37KA
<|_=00=_|>
Having been initially wary of how well this film would play out - I
ended up surprised at just how successfully it was handled. To begin
with, it features a sterling performance by American Jenifer Garner.
She absolutely shines in her difficult role as mother to young daughter
Anna Beams. Anna's story could too easily be palmed off as clichéd but,
being based on factual situations makes it considerably different from
other movies with similar content. It tells of Anna's astounding life
changing experiences while fighting off a rare, deadly digestive
disorder. Young Kylie Rogers as Anna, proves herself to be quite a
formidable star.

The screenplay by Randy Brown is adapted from Christy Beam's (Anna's
mother) factual book. Christy examines the many challenges and
inspirational experiences shared by her daughter and family. Garner
plays Christy, while New Zealand actor Martin Henderson ("Little Fish"
'05) turns in good support as her husband. The family have all moved to
live on his newly established Veterinary farm in Texas and are set to
be sorely tested, emotionally and financially. Another noteworthy
performance comes from multi-talented Eugenio Derbez, playing a highly
interesting character who's based on real-life specialist Dr Samuel
Nurko. Other cast members in supporting roles also execute their
characterizations very well indeed. And, that surprising 'Tree' scene
is rather unsettling.

American based Peruvian cinematographer and director of photography
Checco Varese (AKF: "The 33" in 2015) supplies a wide array of glorious
visuals. These are accompanied by a worthy music score from veteran
Roman composer Carlo Siliotto. The whole work is nicely tied together
with great flare by talented Mexican director Patricia Riggen, who
keeps this true story running at just the right tempo. Viewers with
tendencies towards little or no faith, or those who maybe cynical
towards situations involving the inexplicable - might find this movie
could be wasted on them - however, no matter what your view, it is
difficult to dispute the confirming evidence of documented medical
records!. If your'e looking for a faith-lift based on actual events,
then you won't be let down. Introducing the real-life characters over
the final credits is a master touch. It's good to know this movie was
so successful - it actually made a well deserved profit. It's certainly
a refreshing break from the assorted porn masquerading as
'entertainment' on today's market. Congratulations all involved and
Sony/Columbia.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a tearjerker, then you're in the right place. I
caution people to not wear makeup when watching this movie because you
will be crying by the end. The story is about a Christian family from
Texas, whose second daughter becomes seriously ill with an incurable
disease. The situation puts a lot of financial stress on the parents
because they have to see a specialist out of Boston every month. The
journey is about the mother, played by Jennifer Garner, and how she
does whatever she can to make sure her daughter gets the best treatment
possible. The movie is based on the real- life story of the Beam family
and what happened with the middle daughter Anna, played by Kylie
Rogers. 

While there are some religious and spiritual elements of the movie, and
it plays an important role, it never comes off as preachy or pushy. It
just works with how the story is told. The idea of having faith is an
important theme of the characters in the movie. The mother struggles
with her faith and questions her belief in God. While Anna, tries to
stay positive and even has a conversation with another sick girl, to
try and cheer her up. Eventually, Anna wants to give up on living until
an accident happens that changes her life. Hence the title of the
movie.

One of the things that sell the emotion of the movie is the tremendous
acting by both Garner and Rogers. They really sell a real connection
between a mother and daughter. Rogers is such a delightful little girl
that warms your heart when she's happy and saddens it when she's in
pain. Garner does an amazing job with the real tears and heartfelt
speeches about her daughter. The entire cast is great in this movie.
Queen Latifah comes in (for a few scenes) not only to provide some
comedy but to bring some hope to the girls when they feel a bit
defeated. 

Even if you are not a fan of faith-based movies, you will still enjoy
this film because the focus is on the mother and daughter and the
family struggles. If you're looking for a good cry, watch it. If you
aren't looking to cry, watch it! This is an amazing movie and sheds
great light on people who do have sick children and everything they
have to go through. It's a heartbreaking story that ends with a very
uplifting message. The idea being that miracles are everywhere, even if
it's just someone helping you out in a tough situation. It's the little
things in life that make the big things possible. Watch the movie, and
get inspired.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter and I found this movie very uplifting. We were not looking
for an Oscar worthy film but a movie that is positive and with a big
heart. This is much more than a faith based movie but a very basic to
goodness movie that we don't showcase anymore in films and we found
this very appealing. For me, this is a movie that turned my daughter
around as she is struggling with faith and life issues at the moment.
That is a miracle by itself.

This is a small movie that we enjoyed and it touched our hearts and the
acting of Garner and Kylie are commendable. All the actors in this
movie are very convincing. The movie was just not all centered in faith
but also about how the community, strangers and family rally behind the
Beams. There is also the basic kindness that strangers offer without
hesitation in our everyday lives are shown here and those are very
comforting and should not be overlooked. This movie is not preachy but
it is really about an ordinary day to day struggles of each and
everyone of us. Great movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I have often felt that everything happens for a reason and that reason
is beyond reason. This film, based upon a true story, powerfully puts
this message home. Jennifer Garner plays Christy Beam, mother of an ill
young daughter who no one seems to be able to help. Her love for her
daughter leads her and her family everywhere looking for help. There
seems to be no solution.

Finally, the family, after exhausting all avenues of hope, prays, and
doctors comes home to face the end of her daughters life as best they
can. The long road to nowhere has stretched the family to its limits
and there seems to be no hope. This process runs more than 3/4's of the
movie.

On the way we meet Pastor Scott (John Carroll Lynch) who seem a lot
like a Dr. Phil in the pulpit. Between the Pastor and the folks in the
congregation, Christy Beam goes from loving God to questioning her
faith in them. After they arrive home, with no hope, an emergency
happens and everything changes for the better.

The cast and direction is very effective here. Kylie Rogers as Anna
Beam, Martin Henderson as Kevin Beam, Brighton Sharbino as Abbie Beam,
Courtney Fansler as Adelynn Beam and Queen Latifah as Angela, a most
unusual human angel fr sorts are all great in their roles. 

If you need an amazing thing, so real that the real people do cameos at
the end of the film, you must catch this one. In these times when we
often are brought into impossible situations with little hope, it is
nice to feel good when something happens that can only be described as
a miracle.
<|_=00=_|>
Miracles From Heaven is directed by Patricia Riggen and stars Jennifer
Garner as the mother of a sick child named Anna, played by Kylie
Rogers. The child is diagnosed with a rare disease that doesn't allow
her body to digest food. Stay away from the trailers for this movie if
you plan on seeing it; they spoil the entire film. That's all I'm going
to say, because I don't want to spoil the movie for anyone.

I was somewhat excited about seeing Miracles From Heaven, but I was
expecting the movie to be as the trailers said it would be, and it was
a completely different movie, despite it still being pretty good. The
marketing team for this movie should really be fired, because the
advertisement for Miracles From Heaven was marketing a separate movie.
The film does have some flaws, but it was good overall.

My favorite thing about Miracles From Heaven was the performances given
by the actors that play the little girl's parents, that being Jennifer
Garner as the mother and Martin Henderson as the father. These two did
pretty great together, and made a very believable married couple that
are struggling with their ability to cope with the sickness that their
daughter has. Although I wish the film went a bit deeper into their
conflicted relationship based on stress and disagreements, both actors
did very well, and deserve some recognition by receiving future roles.

Having said that about the two parents, and the actors that played
them, not many other characters, or actors, stand out. Most of the
other actors do fine, and don't really have anything special to do with
their screen time, while also not exactly doing bad. Queen Latifah was
marketed as playing a big character in this film (her name is on the
poster), yet her character was given a good amount of depth, and then
forgot about by the script. Her character just disappears from the film
entirely, and it was pretty disappointing, to be honest.

Kylie Rogers, who plays Anna, the sick little girl, does pretty good.
Her performance isn't very distinctive, but she does okay for a little
girl. Both of her sisters seem like wasted characters overall. I really
wish the film would've dived into the difficulties that the sisters
were dealing with, as in having a very sick sister, but it didn't. The
sisters, played by Brighton Sharbino and Courtney Fansler, were
partially wasted as characters that could've been interesting.

The direction was pretty good. No shots really stood out as good or
bad, and the overall camera work did what it should've done, it just
wasn't as interesting as it could've been. The script was pretty nice,
with some very good dialogue at points, and some pretty bland dialogue
at others. There were a couple different subplots that really should've
been either cut out, or given more attention to, that were kind of
stuck in between the two, and those elements are what dragged the story
down.

The absolute worst thing about Miracles From Heaven is the pacing,
particularly with the time jumps. There are more than enough time
jumps, yet the film fails to explain how much time has passed. Coming
out of the theater, I didn't know whether or not the film's setting
lasted 6 months or 6 years. These time jumps really pulled the movie
down by an entire letter grade (or so), and was pretty underwhelming.

Other than the few complaints I mentioned, I liked just about
everything about Miracles From Heaven. It didn't get too preachy, and
was constructed as a film pretty well. I'd recommend Miracles From
Heaven to anyone who can handle watching something somewhat sad,
because there are a couple sentimental moments.
