
If you were thinking of going to the movies to see 90 Minutes in
Heaven, don't bother. I went tonight - boring. Time it began was 4:00
with the preview trailers, so must have started around 4:15. Began with
a short summary of what happened 2 days before his accident took maybe
10-15 minutes. Then the accident and from there it was all in the
hospitals with him in surgery or just laying in bed. There was only 1
minute where we saw a brief moment of his thoughts where it appeared to
be a vision of heaven with people saying "Good to see you" to him, but
there was no mention by him in the movie about having seen heaven at
all. Through the whole movie there was a child talking and clanging his
toys on the chairs and floor. Parent didn't do anything about it. I
finally gave up and went out to see what time it was - it was already
5:30 and nothing to indicate any story of his 90 minutes in heaven. I
asked for and received a refund.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what it is about some Christian movies. They just don't
get it. Just because you have a catchy title and a theme about 'GOD',
the producers seem to think it will be a big hit. Im sorry to say, this
movie was completely boring to me. The cast and acting were OK i guess.
I think the wife in the movie was kind of cold and unemotional
considering the events surrounding her. I was OK until i kept waiting
and waiting and waiting for something to happen other than this mans'
pity party to be over and from his recovery to be over. He says he saw
Jesus at one early point in the movie (complaining to himself) and then
complains about being alive and alienating his entire friends and
family the other 95% of the movie! Really? Who would do this? By the
time the movie is almost over he finally talks about his Heaven
experience. Its nothing more than we have heard a million times
already. A bunch of people he knew before, standing in front of a big
light, an open gate, a relative, and an old friend standing there
smiling at him. Thats it! And by the way, the people looked the same as
they did here on earth! Of course we will look the same in appearance,
but to have an old face with wrinkles and still have your dentures?
Come on! It breaks my heart to give this review. I really really really
HATE giving bad reviews on Christian movies being a Christian myself
but i must say the truth in how i feel. Someone has to tell the truth
even if it hurts or seems negative. We need to stop giving Christian
movies high ratings just because they are Christian movies. Here's my
prediction: Hollywood will say, "Wow! There is money to be made with
these Christians! Lets make them ourselves!" They will screw them up
with their ignorance. My God, have you seen Noah, or Exodus? Don't get
me started... If you want a good Christian movie in theaters, GO SEE
WAR ROOM.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this on my birthday on October 3rd. Was really having high hopes
for the movie. But still, as I was really anticipating the movie as a
Christian myself.

But when I saw it, really it disappointed me due to the fact. Of being
boring and slow. And really was just about to put my father to sleep a
couple of times.

As even though you feel bad for the Don Piper character played by an
unrecognizable Hayden Christensen. 

And the struggles that he had to face in 105 days. And his wife, played
by Kate Bosworth trying to struggle as a wife and mom. Holding it
together. 

With the support of his family and friends at church and the school
Eve, Don's wife teaches. He must learn to try to live as he feels like
he does not. Until Fred Thompson as a mentor of Don's gives him some
tough love.

A few parts were good but it was otherwise a boring movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie at best, tells the events in the book. In the tradition of
adaptations, it skims over events with little depth. The essence of the
story, was to encourage Christians about heaven. The movie however is a
medical drama, that serves to educate viewers on hospital affairs.

The encounter in heaven, is put at the end of the movie as an after
thought. The director choosing to dwell in the emotional scenes
featuring the family. The movie has bloopers. The scene where Don
advises a young man with fixator, did not involve his family in the
audience. Because Don was chaperoning a group of teenagers to an
auditorium.

The movie did not inspire or show the motivational stories that
resulted from Don telling the world his ordeal.It did not even feature
a crisis of faith for Don.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be fooled by the title. There was nothing heavenly about this
film. It's a corny, hokey, clichéd, dull, slow, and an inaccurate
melodrama about a young minister, Don Piper (Hayden Christensen) who
suffered traumatic injury in a car accident. The paramedics who arrive
at the scene cannot find a pulse and leave him unattended awaiting a
coroner.

Another minister caught in the resulting traffic jam enters the car and
starts praying and singing, at which point he returns to life by
joining in the hymn. He has been "dead" for 90 minutes. Now, it has
happened that people who are being worked on with a defibrillator,
etc., have come back after 90 minutes. But this guy was in a car with
plastic over him.

Kate Bosworth plays the minister's wife, Eva, as if she had been
heavily sedated. On the other hand, the minister is transferred to a
hospital that allows him unlimited access to morphine so he is, in
fact, heavily sedated. And about halfway through this 121 minutes of
hell, you'll wish you were, too.

Unfortunately, Christensen's character is unlikeable as he slides into
self-pity. When fireworks are going on outside, he says in his
narration, those are the only fireworks left in our marriage now. He's
been flat on his back in intractable pain -- I don't know what he
expected.

The character is on an IV for 45 days+. He would have had a PIC line by
then. Also, he's given no pain medication while they're trying to
stimulate bone growth with a fixator, which is incredibly painful.

One other thing - of course the recovery is very expensive so at one
point he is moved to a less expensive hospital. And all the staff
becomes black. Low, producers, LOW.

The acting is uniformly bad with the exception of Fred Thompson, who
comes off like John Barrymore compared to the rest of them. He offers
him a milkshake - McDonald's obviously threw some money at this thing.
They're everywhere. 

As far as learning anything about the character's NDE, you won't,
except for the last minutes of the film. Maybe heaven is worth the
wait, but getting to this part of the film is not since you had to go
through hell to get there. It's too little, too late.
<|_=00=_|>
Hi all,

After seeing 4.4 stars I was very close to passing on this movie. I'm
glad I didn't. I'm a Christian and I very much enjoyed the raw human
truths and emotions that were displayed in this movie.

The movie was a faithful adaptation of the book, but I think it could
have done a better job of explaining why Don was so standoffish. The
book gives a better explanation on why Don has shut down. In essence,
heaven is such a wonderful place to him that he becomes apathetic to
the world around him. Don wants to die and doesn't understand why he
has to go through the immense pain only to relive in a colorless world.

That being said, Hayden did a great job. I was surprised considering
the poor reviews.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read the book "90 minutes in heaven" when it first came out and
was glad when they finally made the movie! This is about a pastor who
was involved in an accident and was declared dead for at least 90
minutes. What happened next was a journey of pain and discovery,
through faith and love of family and friends and many others who prayed
for God to move in a miraculous way! We don't always understand why we
go through incredible pain and loss, but when we trust in the God who
knows every thing, we can witness how He works it all out for His
Glory. 

I really liked this movie and hope more true life movies about faith
during difficult times will come out after this one!!! True Christians
get it, even if the rest of the world does not. Thank you for making
this movie and thanks to the Piper family for sharing their experiences
with the rest of us.
<|_=00=_|>
In a short sentence - don't bother. 

I viewed this online, and as soon as the credits starting rolling,
where it shows that the film was made by a religious film-making
organisation, about a man of faith's accident and recovery, and as soon
as you hear the religious prayer music on the car radio inside the
first minute or so of the film, you just know that this is going to be
some Christian-based propaganda in film format. 

Don't get me wrong, I AM a Christian, but this film is awful nonsense. 

In a nutshell, a deeply religious man suffers a serious car accident,
recovers and is pretty damn miserable during all of the recovery. Most
of the film is based in the hospital recovery rooms and is mostly
conversation based. 

The acting is dull and unengaging. I only bothered to watch it at all
because of the two leading cast members - I wished I hadn't been sucked
in by this. 

Apparently the budget was £5m for this? Where did this go? Apparently
the Director is Bosworth's husband - did she milk the production fees
with the approval of her husband? Is Hayden really proper "box office"
enough to swipe most of the production costs in fees? You look at this
film, and it really does feel like very average TV movie. In fact, I've
seen much better TV movies. 

There are a couple of actors that you've seen before in other films
like Fred Dalton Thompson and Gregory Allan Williams - but it's not
nearly enough to even come close to save this old tat. 

Forget it - it's a yawner, and not a good yawner at that. Why, oh why,
oh why can't victims of serious accidents and incidents give themselves
(and the medical staff that treat them) some credit for having the
inner will to live through terrible events and survive?
<|_=00=_|>
My Rating is based on the "idea". If I was to give this movie a serious
movie quality rating it would be something close to 2 or 3. There are
better movies with second tier actors to be seem like "The carpenter's
miracle". Even "Heaven is for real" is better than this. I understand
that movies abut the same subject might look like church trying to
entice some people to come closer to Christian religion. However, I
think that each individual experience is different. Some people have
been through tremendous pain and suffering not to mention they survived
accidents or diseases when people usually don't make it. Internet will
show you many more stories of the same nature but they have not yet
made it to the big screen. A good one is "Flight to Heaven" about
Captain Dale Black. The issue is always to be able to tell a story
about real and simple people exactly how it happened. It is very
personal but with the right direction and dedicated actors it can be a
success.
<|_=00=_|>
A man involved in a horrific car crash is pronounced dead, only to come
back to life an hour and a half later, claiming to have seen Heaven. 90
Minutes in Heaven suffers from dull drama the film throws the lines
like it's some SNL show there's no emotion there is once in a while but
it's not strong enough and except Kate Bosworth who at least tries a
lot Hayden Christensen is not the right guy to tell this story he did
some research with the movements after the crash so that was good but
overall the lines and the story felt forced he isn't as bad as he was
in Attack of the Clones but still not great i give it a 6 out of 10
easily the worst from this kind of films Miracles From Heaven is still
the best Christian movie so far.
