
"Kubo and the Two Strings" is a hard movie to explain. There is a story
in it and the adventure is grand and fun, but I can't place it into a
category of traditional storytelling. The themes of the film are the
values of memories and how we truly can never forget people that we
lose throughout our lifetime. Very mature themes that are handled with
such finesse and creativity that I can't say I have seen anything like
it before. Even when you as the audience know where the story is
headed, the film surprises you with the delivery and you actually grow
and learn with the characters. 

The strength of the film is the pure visceral experience it provides.
The visuals and sound had a layer of depth and drama that you feel in
your inner core. It is more of an experience than it is a movie that
you watch. Throughout the film, I felt moments of sadness, loss,
happiness, horror, fear, and accomplishment. It is a movie that truly
raises the bar for animation and it saddens me that many people will
not check it out as it is very different from traditional animated
films that we are used to seeing from other major animation studios. 

So much care and attention went into this film. The world Laika has
created is rich with so much history, story, mythos, and culture that
even some movies and series that are much longer can't fully create. I
felt that the world is living and that magic is truly alive. I love how
the character make it feel special that magic exists, but aren't put of
by it, when they see it for themselves and have to question the logic.

The characters are fun and lovable, but also brave and dimensional. Not
one character felt out of place and they're inclusion felt important.
The voice casting is top-notch and I felt like the celebrities actually
made an effort. Unlike many big-budget animated productions, The voice
actors weren't distracting and added their own layer of charisma that
enhanced and drew attention to the characters. Monkey is probably the
best character and I feel like she'll be the fan favorite as she's
funny, powerful, and a total bada**.

Overall, Laika has produced probably their best animated film to date
and that is saying a lot from a studio that produces quality efforts
time and time again. "Kubo and the Two Strings" is unlike anything out
there and deserves to be seen on the big screen. The animation alone is
breathtakingly gorgeous. The beautiful score and music only adds to the
complexity of the film. It is probably the best film of 2016 so far and
I find it hard to beat. I highly recommend that people check out this
highly creative experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Kubo and the Two Strings might be one of the best movies I've seen all
year. In a crowded year of comic book movies, sequels, and remakes,
that's probably not saying much. I wanted to be fair though and look at
those movies with an open mind and a little background on their
franchises for what each movie wanted to accomplish. However I've been
waiting for so long to see something fresh, original, and holy cow this
was it. Kubo is a stop motion animated film by Laika studios who've
produced Coraline, Paranorman, and the Box Trolls. I really enjoyed
Coraline and didn't really like Paranorman or the Box Trolls so I had
no idea what to expect from this movie. My friend and I went opening
night because the trailers looked interesting, and we were into the
entire run time. It's so beautifully shot, the story is simple yet
engaging, and the action is just amazing to behold. I don't want to
give away anything about the story because I went into this movie blind
not knowing that much and I think people should try to do the same.
It's surprisingly also very funny! My friend and I just looked at each
other shocked at how much this movie made us laugh. The characters are
great and the voice work is very impressive. Everything about this
movie is just so impressive. For little kids maybe it's not something
to hold their interest, but older kids and adults I think should
seriously consider checking this out. It's a fun, well written, and
very emotional story. Not only should this movie win best animated
feature so far, it should be nominated for best picture I'm serious!
Lovers of film, animation, storytelling. PLEASEEEE go out and support
this movie I heard it will have a low opening weekend and it's such a
shame. We need to make this film a hit I want more animated movies of
this quality, check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
Attended a pre-opening screening of Laika's stop motion animated movie
"Kubo and the Two Strings" yesterday and I have to say I totally loved
it! The story is set in ancient Japan, where a young boy named Kubo
cares for his ailing mother in a seaside Japanese village. He is a
beloved storyteller who plays a magical shamisen (Japanese 3-string
instrument). A spirit from the past turns Kubo's life upside down by
re-igniting an age-old vendetta. In order to survive, he sets out on a
quest to locate a magical suit of armor once worn by his late father, a
legendary Samurai warrior. He makes friends and allies, encounters
monsters and evil demons, and learns important lessons along the way.
Visually, this is epically incredible and a game changer for stop
motion. The action and excitement kept me on the edge of my seat. I
wouldn't recommend it for really small children, though. There are
times it's scary and the monsters are very well done! There's an
excellent moral to the story and delightful humor, so children and
adults will both enjoy it. Well done Laika. Best one yet!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a pretty big fan of Laika. As a studio, they have brought a blend
of stop-motion and CGI into the mainstream and have also tested much
riskier subject material than other animation companies. Not only is
their animation time consuming and risky, but their ideas are fairly
risky as well (in today's market, that is).

And Kubo is another interesting premise with beautiful animation,
gorgeous backgrounds, and a nice style to it. It looks really good.
Props to the animators. Stop-motion is advancing further and further
with every movie Laika is making, and the stuff that is done in this
movie would have seemed impossible to do only 7 years ago when Coraline
was first released.

The first 20 minutes of this movie are excellent and well-told!

However, beautiful animation does not make a good movie...

Story is the heart of a movie, and if you don't know how to tell a
story, then you should go back to the drawing board (or storyboard).
The biggest issue with Kubo isn't the most obvious one. The characters
are nice, the animation is nice, the action is nice, and everything
feels pretty solid, but what really kills this movie is the editing,
the script, and its lack of solidity. 

In short: Kubo and the Two Strings doesn't know what it is.

I could write a 10 page essay on the deeper issues of this movie, but
that doesn't fit in one IMDb review. In Kubo, and lot of interesting
ideas are brought up, but none of them fit together or are cohesive. 

For example, what is Kubo's motivation? Staying alive? Saving his mom?
Beating his grandpa? Kubo never really gets true motivation until the
third act and this is a major issue for the movie. The movie says Kubo
is on an adventure, but he doesn't seem to feel the stakes until the
final act, which is way too late in the game for us to care about him.

The same goes with the villain. The background and motives of the
villain are constantly changing and inconsistent. One second he wants
to kill Kubo. Next second he wants his eye. Yet another second later,
he just wants to help Kubo come to heaven with him. Then he hates
everyone becomes they are human. Then his motives change to he just
hates human because they could overthrow him. Then another motive where
it is because he thinks they are disgrace.

THIS IS A BIG ISSUE.

For the villain's motivation and reasoning to be completely ambiguous
and confusing completely ruins Kubo's arc... which is equally confusing
and muddled. Essentially, both the villain and the protagonist are the
weakest points of this movie. A movie can't really hold together with
this big of a problem. 

And this issue is repeated throughout the movie where nothing is
actually fully realized. 

For example: there is one scene where Kubo briefly loses control of his
powers and it does something he didn't mean to do. Never mentioned
again in the movie.

The plot of his mother being sick and needing to be taken care of.
Never fully explained or fully realized.

Why the mom can't recognize her own husband when she sees his face? Why
does the mom pretend she isn't kubo's mom (she says it is so he won't
feel bad?!?!?). How come the mom told stories of the locations of all
of the MacGuffins, but then doesn't know where they are?

What did the moon king want with Kubo's eyes? Why does the moon king
have Kubo's eye at the end when he is a human, but not when he is a
spirit being? Why does the moon king become a human? Why does the town
lie about his past? Why did Kubo trust the moon king in the dream, when
his whole journey is to beat the moon king, but then when he sees the
moon king he trusts him?

*big spoilers* Why is there a red paper samurai? Why is there a red
paper samurai once the beetle shows up, who is the actual real-life
version of that samurai! Why didn't anyone recognize the beetle as the
father, especially when the father's samurai armor appears to be
sitting within that same cave? Why didn't anyone follow the red paper
samurai to the last location of the armor? They followed it the entire
time, but not at the end?

Long story short, this list of character problems and inconsistencies
is much longer than this, but a lot of these are pretty big plot
problems and not just nit-picks. The finale of the movie is problem the
worst element of the movie and not because it isn't visually stunning,
but mostly because it is one character who has no tangible motivation
versus someone else who hasn't had a very clear goal throughout the
film. To make it worse, the movie doesn't even know what it is about.
Is it about memories? Is it about death? Is it about stuck-up snobs? Is
it an attack on tradition? Is it attacking perfectionists? What is the
movie about? 

What makes this all the more frustrating is the fact that ParaNorman is
a movie that has a similar premise, but it does it perfectly. The
ending of ParaNorman works, because all of its themes tie together
flawlessly. 

ParaNorman is a cohesive story and knows what it is saying. Kubo does
not.

Sadly, if you are expecting the next Coraline or ParaNorman, then
prepare to be disappointed. This movie feels like a first-pass. A lot
of ideas, but none of them mesh together or are completed.
<|_=00=_|>
You know what I love in Kubo and the Two Strings (among several other
things)? It doesn't go out of its way to explain its magic. It simply
IS. Oh, sure, there's a talking monkey that saves the lead character
Kubo (voiced by Art Parkinson, the monkey by Charlize Theron), and
there's an explanation briefly (and then a later one, which I won't
reveal at all), but it doesn't matter any more than how Kubo can use
his guitar strings to make his origami turn into sword-wielding
samurai, or how the former bodyguard named Beetle comes to be (Matthew
McConaughey going back into his 'McConnaissance' mode as being a truly
great performance expanding what we thought he's capable of a
semi-comic sidekick).

The filmmakers let the characters explain when they need to, yet when
they do it's done in the form of storytelling - at one point when
Monkey is finally pressed by Kubo (and Beetle too) to say what is going
on with his otherworldly grandfather and his Aunt who is out to, well,
kill him and what Monkey has to do with it, she can only tell it as
Kubo plays his guitar and the papers for his origami go into the air to
show as she tells. This is a film that loves storytelling and
storytellers, and yet never forgets that this is a full-bodied
CINEMATIC experience.

I can't remember the last time I've recently seen so much imagination
and visual invention in one fantastical animated film, stop motion or
otherwise (not even Finding Dory, which certainly has both humor and
some heartfelt moments, got to that this year). The story involves a
little boy, who we are introduced to at the start as being
saved/protected by his mother as a baby (with an eye cut out, by his
grandfather), that is at the start making money by performing with his
flying/magic origami in a village while tending to his mother who seems
to be suffering from amnesia (as an aside, I knew I would love this
movie about five minutes in when the filmmakers show us what this
dynamic between son and mother is as the latter stares off into space
with a haunted, sad look as the son tries his best to care for her, all
without words, a perfect moment that I'd never expect to see in a kid's
film in a multiplex kind of environment).

But Kubo can't be out after dark, the evil sister of his Mother - with
a black hat and white mask that makes her creepy past Burton-type
standards - attacks, and Kubo is sent away and is knocked out. When he
awakes Monkey is there and, soon after on this quest to find items that
will help him face his evil Aunt and grandfather, the Beetle guard, and
it becomes a hero's journey story. And what a hero and journey! There's
a lot of action that the filmmakers pack into this movie - it is a
Japanese fantasy-inspired film, so there may be some violent imagery
that may scare the wee ones like under four of five, but most kids
should be able to take it and, if I remember how I was at that age,
love it - and it involves things like a giant skeleton monster that
comes to life with swords stuck in its skull (and the three characters
have to find which one is their unbreakable one), and, my favorite
weird and wonderful creation, a group of underwater eyeballs that, when
one looks too long at them, puts the person in a trance leading down to
a... well, don't want to give it away.

The voice-work is a delight which, as I said, McConaughey really digs
into being a character who is the faithful protector though has some
'off' memory problems at times and a looser way of looking at
protecting a child than Monkey (Theron plays the strict motherly figure
as good as she's played any role, including Monster or Furiosa), and it
becomes this story that's as much about family than it is about revenge
or other petty things. You do have to pay attention, this isn't a movie
that you can throw on for your kids and they can act crazy or get
distracted: it asks that you watch it and take in a story that at its
core isn't too far removed from Joseph Campbell, but does so many
twists that it becomes its own original entity.

Kubo and the Two Strings gives you all that you could want in a family
animated movie, but more than that is a splendid, heart-rending fantasy
epic in under 100 minutes. It brings me back to when I first saw
something like The Dark Crystal and was amazed at what creators can do
when they embrace really creating a WORLD that their characters can
inhabit - not to mention keeping any humor to the situations or
behavior, nothing that dates it at all. I can't recommend it enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Those talented folks at LAIKA have done it again. KUBO AND THE TWO
STRINGS is not just one of the best animated films of the year, it's
one of the best films of the year, period. Not since Pixar's "Up," have
death and loss been handled do firmly and delicately. "Kubo" is fun,
moving, hopeful, and profound. A terrific story of bravery and
acceptance.

Written by Marc Haimes and Chris Butler and directed by LAIKA's own
president, Travis Knight, KUBO AND THE TWO STRINGS is set in a
fantastical Japan where a one-eyed kid who masters the art of origami
and storytelling, Kubo, (voiced by Art Parkinson of "Game Of Thrones")
would go out to work to earn money during the day by entertaining
audiences in the middle of a market but he comes home right before
sundown to tend to his sick mother, it has to be before sundown because
at night, his mother's sisters, two evil twins (voice day Oscar nominee
Rooney Mara) would try to get Kubo's other eye. The past catches up to
them, an old vendetta resurfaces, Kubo must run and join forces with
Monkey (voiced by Oscar winner Charlize Theron) and a beetle (voiced by
Oscar winner Matthew McConaughey) on a quest to retrieve the helmet,
the sword unbreakable and the armor that would prepare Kubo to fight
the vengeful Moon King (voiced by Oscar nominee Ralph Fiennes). This
quest would unlock Kubo's family mystery and lead him to fulfill his
destiny.

I've always appreciated animation, but with stop-motion, it's extra
level of appreciation, knowing the extra hard work they put into even
just to get a few seconds of shots. It's a level of dedication and
discipline that never ceases to blow my mind, that's why I'm a huge fan
of LAIKA. Especially with this latest film of theirs, the scale is much
bigger, there's a sequence involving a large skeleton giant, your brain
starts to wonder as you see that scene just how many hours, how many
weeks, how many months did it take for them to make that happen.

This film has action, it has love drama, it has family drama, it has a
great sense of humor and it's also about community coming together to
help one another. It has its own way of featuring and respecting
Japanese art and tradition, but even if you're not too familiar with
that particular culture, KUBO resonates much deeper than just the
aesthetics. It's a film that's perfect for the whole family. And on top
of that, it delicately teaches our young ones about how to grieve in a
healthy manner. There's also a twist to the story which I won't spoil
for you here. This film is just so beautiful and pristine. Charlize
Theron has that commanding voice you would follow to the ends of the
earth. And Matthew McConaughey voices Beetle as playful and as proud as
Tim Allen did Buzz Lightyear. So it's a combination of outstanding stop
motion animation, excellent voice talents, a well-told story and strong
characters that make KUBO AND THE TWO STRINGS one of my favorite this
year.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
I expected big things from Kubo. Those expectations were met on a
purely superficial level. The film looks beautiful and the
meticulousness of the stop motion craft is clear for all to see, but
the story had major problems.

After the striking opening of mother and son caught in a tumultuous
storm that dashes them against rocks and washes both ashore, we have a
watchable, if slightly dull 20 minutes of exposition and establishing
character goals before it quickly devolves into a predictable rehash of
the 3 act hero structure. The young, one-eyed, but infinitely
resourceful Kubo sets off on a quest to find 3 fabled pieces of armour
so he can do battle with his evil grandfather up in the heavens, who
just can't stand humans and their silly "feels" (but you know of course
that 'feels' are exactly what will triumph in the end (cue eye-roll)).

The ease in which Kubo finds these items in such quick succession
doesn't really feel suitably epic and there's no real sense of how far
he actually has to travel, he just always conveniently ends up right
where he needs to be. There's no real sense of danger either, despite
the odious threat of his sinister aunts coming to steal his good eye so
they might blind him to humanity, you never once feel like this might
actually happen. 

Overall, it felt to me like the writers thought up a bunch of cool set
pieces they could throw at the viewer, and then tried to weave a script
around those. The 'banter' between Kubo's companions Monkey and Beatle,
serves as empty filler between action sequences; Their constant
squabbling is over-played and annoying. It also bugged me that despite
the lovingly realized visual depiction of ancient Japan, the characters
acted and sounded so American.

The menacing twin aunts (voiced by Rooney Mara) and the fantastic
origami action were high points and very entertaining. However, mostly
I was bored and consciously predicting lazy story arcs. It just wasn't
a satisfying experience and it's a shame for Laika to spend so much
time and effort crafting animation for a contrived, generic story which
failed to deliver any emotional weight.
<|_=00=_|>
If this film was told from another perspective, Kubo and the Two
Strings might be considered a bit preachy. It still might be,
regardless. But no matter how you look at it, it is something to be
looked at more than once. It is simply an amazing work of animated
achievement in cinema.

Set in what could be medieval Japan, a little boy named Kubo scratches
out a meager existence on the village streets earning just enough for
him and his mother to survive. For her part, mom (voiced by Charlize
Theron) sits at the mouth of their mountaintop cave in a comatose state
every day until dusk. This is also the time when Kubo must be home, not
only to be there when she snaps out of it to regale him with stories of
his long lost warrior father, but so he can be safe from the evil that
bewitched his mother and left him with only one eye. Failing to do this
one fateful night forces Kubo on a journey to recover mythical armor
and weapons that will beat back the forces of darkness and restore love
and harmony to his life and the lives of others. Aiding him on his
quest are a miniature monkey carving come to life, an origami samurai,
and a beetle/man warrior (Matthew McConaughey).

What is truly exceptional about Kubo and the Two Strings is not the
story. The characters have American English accents and are not Asian.
A couple characters aren't really fleshed out (those of Brenda Vaccaro
and Ralph Fiennes for example). Although the film is geared toward a
younger audience, there are deep themes of rebirth and reincarnation
that are a major part of the movie and seem heavy handed, as was hinted
at earlier. The story is not the star, the presentation of the story is
what shines.

Anyone who is familiar with Laika studios work (Coraline, The
Boxtrolls) will not be disappointed in how Kubo and the Two Strings
looks. For the uninitiated, be prepared to see a film that hearkens
back to the old style of painstaking, stop-motion animation with a
splash of 21st century wizardry. These filmmakers have done what other
strive to do with budgets two, four, even six times larger. They have
made an animated world that pulls you in with its realism. It doesn't
come off as cartoon like. Eyes glisten, teeth are almost translucent,
hair blows in the wind, characters have shadows. Any shortcomings in
the script are quickly forgiven when the evil sisters float into the
scene or when Kubo (Art Parkinson) captivates the town folk with his
storytelling. It's the attention to detail, the craftsmanship, and
artistic appreciation that sets films like Kubo and the Two Strings
apart from other animated feature films. The filmmakers have learned a
lot from the old masters and have served notice that they are at the
top of their game. Just sit back and let them and their latest
undertaking work their magic on you.

www.mediumraretv.org
<|_=00=_|>
Reviewers Notes; 

1. As I write this, the top-rated IMDb review starts with the header "a
hard movie to explain..." and that pretty much nails it. The film
starts very slow, builds gradually, has the viewer hooked like a fish
by the mid-point, and then falls a tiny bit short in the climax. But
overall the experience is unforgettable, magical, and great fun.

2. In Japan anime, they revere not only their movies but their studios.
It was always considered that the NA studios, even Pixar, don't measure
up. But Studio Laiko in this amazing film has done things with
stop-motion and color which make it a world standard and as good as or
better than the best that Japan has to offer. I am even going to use
some frames a screen saver, they are THAT good.

3. Lots of great voice acting but Charlize Theron steals, literally
steals, the film and takes it to a new level. Makes you forget all
about the goldfish that initially started the trend in "star" voices.
Truly an incredible performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. It is original, beautiful to watch and has heart and
soul. The quirkiness of this movie only adds to its lovability. It is
hard to find an original movie and using origami as the base of this
movie is simply genius.

Kubo's grandfather has stolen his eye and now is after the other and he
will do whatever he has to, to get the other eye. His two aunts are
frighten witches. His mother has lost all her memories and many dangers
await Kubo and his only helpers are a monkey and a silly half man, half
beetle and an endless supply of paper. I know this all sounds totally
crazy, but it all works together quite nicely to make this incredible
movie.

I struggled once trying to make an origami swan so I appreciate the
origami in this film which has a mind of its own. Kubo plays a two-
stringed instrument which transforms simple paper into magnificent,
magical shapes and forms. 

The voice-overs in this film are stupendous and really bring it to
life. My favorite character is Kubo (Art Parkinson) who is just so
adorable yet strong, independent and goodhearted. My other favorite is
Monkey (Charlize Theron) who is brave, funny, clever and very stubborn.
I love her character because of all these traits. Even though she is
tough, she has a kind, sweet side that she shows how much she loves her
son. There is also the beetle (Matthew McConaughey) who is hysterical,
dangerous and a straight shooter or, at least according to him he is. I
love his character because its funny and had me belly laughing. His
affection for Monkey is adorable. Of course, there are villains of this
film. The sisters, both played by Rooney Mara portrays them as crazy,
wacko witches and her voice is perfectly scary. The other villain, The
Moon King (Ralph Fiennes) is the weird Grandfather who wants Kubo's
other eye and he is super creepy.

One of my favorite scenes is when Kubo, Monkey and Beetle are trying to
defeat a giant skeleton and find the sword of unbreakablity. It is
adventurous and funny. The graphics are incredible, especially the way
they created the skeleton. This is the biggest clay animation character
ever made. I thought this action scene was intricate and believable.

I recommend this film for ages 7 to 18. Adults will like it too. I do
want to suggest that if your child is younger than 7, they might get
scared with the darkness and the villains, but if they can accept that
it is all fake then they will be okay. I rate this film 5 out of 5
magical origami stars. 

Reviewed by Morgan B., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
