
There are three previous reviews about this film ranging from 3 of 10
to 9 of 10. I won't bore you with the lengthily details of the entire
film as one reviewer did. (Would not be surprised at all if He/She had
some direct connection with the making of the film, etc) 

I am always up for cerebral, off color, non conformist, anti-Hollywood
type films and praise those who make them. I am not, however, a fan of
films that aim high to be recognized as deeply artistic and thought
provoking when the film fails miserably in achieving that goal.

There are at least four big name actors in this mess and there is
hardly any dialog through almost 2 hours of run time. This is not to
say Dialog makes a film great. Often silence and facial expression and
body language speaks volumes. Sadly, this is not the case in "the Bad
Batch". BORING is the first word that comes to mind to describe this
film. The story line and plot are all over the place. Th film is set in
a supposed Apocalaptic setting with a two caste system. One being
cannibals, the other the privileged, if you can call it that. 

To categorize this film as "Romance/ Sci-Fi" is utterly misleading.
There is absolutely No romance in this film nor is there any Science
Fiction in it anywhere. I would categorize this film as a Dark Drama.
The only redeeming quality of the film is the score in my opinion. 

None of the story telling is explained or resolved and you meander
through the film (as do the characters) with no purpose. Here is my
take on the film.....Girl is captured, has her leg And arm amputated
barbarically, which is used for food BTW, by a group of cannibals. Girl
escapes, finds woman in desert, kills her and takes daughter, head
cannibal sets out to find daughter, finds girl sans two limbs, sets her
out on a mission to find little girl. Girl finds little girl at another
"camp" of the higher caste and recovers little girl, meets Said Gorilla
cannibal in desert, film ends!

Two hours of time I'll never recover. Swallowing glass would be less
painful then watching this again. Reviewers can wax philosophical all
they want, "the bad Batch" is just plain BAD!
<|_=00=_|>
This is another film that screams "I want to be a cult movie!" but just
doesn't have what it takes. It starts out promising and then seems to
have absolutely nowhere to go; it just becomes long, ponderous and
self-indulgent. As someone who grew up going to midnight movies, "The
Bad Batch" seems like its taken elements from these films ("El Topo,"
"Mad Max," "Kill Bill") and stitched them all together in the hopes
it'll hit the mark somewhere. The performances in the film are
adequate, but nothing in the script really demands much of the
characters. Ms. Amirpour obviously had the support of actors like Diego
Luna, Jim Carrey and Keanu Reeves, all of whom are seen briefly, but
I'm willing to bet they never saw much of a script. At two hours,
there's probably half an hour of real material here, the rest just
feels like padding.
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to see this movie after reading the synopsis a couple of
days before the screening. As the title of this summary suggests, there
is a lot of walking in this movie. The story starts out semi promising
with you wondering what happened to the earth but ends up being the
walkiest and least talkiest movie I've ever seen. I know those aren't
words but goddammit they get my point across. 

The main actress is forgettable, Jason Momoa, Jim Carrey, and Keanu
Reeves were miscast or maybe it was just the bad script? Possibly both?
Back to the walking part, with minimal dialogue and no action
whatsoever, this movie becomes a student film really quick. What I mean
is that they don't cut out all the walking around and other useless
scenes that should have obviously been taken out. 

There isn't really a story, it's sort of tried to take elements from
Mad Max and other post apocalyptic films that are much better than it
and hope the audience notices and doesn't care or doesn't notice at
all.

My suggestion: don't see it unless you want to be bored to death.

Seen at TIFF 2016.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a dystopian movie about a young woman left out in a lawless
desert with some real choice characters. 

This film starts off very brutally but calms down considerably after
the first few scenes.

The characters, acting, production and filming are really good. The
story is adequate for needs. The scenery and leading lady are
absolutely gorgeous.

So why the low score? The pace of this film is cripplingly slow. There
are tedious scenes that should be time lapsed but are run in real time,
there is lots of staring and grimacing in silence. You really can go
and make yourself a sandwich during this and be safe in the knowledge
that you are unlikely to miss anything.

A lot of potential, I really wanted to like this, but it is just so
slow I was fighting to stay awake.
<|_=00=_|>
You'll need to suspend all of your disbelief to close the holes in this
movie's plot, starting with the pumping-iron, body-building cannibals,
working out and living in aluminum airplane wreckage in the burning
desert sun, in the middle of nowhere. Sun block anyone? 

Enter Protagonist Suki Waterhouse, 25, acting age 17, cute and lean,
and apparently in the eyes of the body-builders, ready for the BBQ-
Grill... Fresh Meat over aged, in wings and legs the saying goes?
Predictably, escape follows, and Suki finds Keanu's Village of DJ's,
Drugs, Dirt. (Keanu at least has a swimming pool and clean towels)
That's Not good enough for Suki, She's in love with the Cubano, the
"Artist" (and lead cannibal) with the mute daughter. Cubano's Mute
Daughter is a MacGuffin.

The movie starts off "OK", with a good pace, and despite poor acting
skill (Suki is mostly eye-candy, with a squeaky voice to match), it
maintains an interesting premise. But then dramatically FIZZLES after
Suki revenge kills Cubano's girlfriend. Then the "distopian love story"
plot takes over and the movie is just embarrassing. There is zero
chemistry between the actors, the writing is hideously awkward, and the
location seems impossible. Grade F. 

I would recommend the movie: "A boy and his Dog" for a successful
example of this kind of Protagonist Survival in a post-apocalyptic
world (with cannibals.)
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start.

AMAZING cast, high hopes, good direction, TERRIFIC cinematography and a
Dystopian future to boot....What else can you ask for????

A script that does not read like a bad night of binge drinking.

The storyline was horrendous. The female lead acts like she does shoe
commercials. WORST "Essay" accent EVER from Momoa. Keanu looked like he
had studied for the role of John Holmes, complete with just BAD
dialogue. Ribisi.....screaming at the sidewalk crazy, not cool crazy.
Albeit, Jim Carry was perfect in his part.

This viewed like a kid's idea of the future. Confusion, dead end
scenarios, lopsided and pointless plot and to me it was like that silly
acting joke " Do the Oscar-worthy film, then the artsy film, to keep
safe" for...everyone involved. It's like someone said " Hey! I have a
breakout idea along the lines of Robert Rodriguez's Mariachi, that's
going to be BIG once it's made!...and laughed when someone fell for it.

Wait for this to be on youtube, for the love of God. Do not spend a
SINGLE penny to see this. Hell, the effort of turning the thing on,
even on youtube, may be a reason to sue them for a loss of personal
energy, in the effort of clicking, to be subjected to the most amazing
cinematographic pile of refuse....I mean, the camera man was a God and
the only praiseworthy participant in this entire debacle

My title is EXACTLY what I said out loud, when the credits started to
roll. Proved to me that a great line up does not always equate to
satisfaction....or even something considered to be worth watching for
free....Yeesh. The 3 star rating was for the scenery and camera work.
The movie is a dead in the hole 1, on it;s own
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to the director's follow up to "A Girl
Walks Home Alone At Night" but after seeing it I'm incredibly
disappointed. There are a lot of things that work here;the direction
and pacing of the film are spot on with some nice cinematography and
some interesting choices along the way. Likewise, most of the actor's
contribute some nice work here including the much lauded cameos by Jim
Carey and Giovanni Ribissi and the high profile appearances of Jason
Momoa and Keannu Reeves. (None of whom did this film because they
"needed a paycheck" by the way but was a chance to work with the
Sundance Institute and/or an up and coming director they wanted to
support.) Carey was really surprising, it took me a few minutes before
I even realized it was him and Momoa shows he's got real acting chops
but it was Keannu Reeves who really stole the show for me. He goes
against type and really brings the creepy to his role of a "Jim Jones"
type cult leader. It would be interesting to see him play an out and
out villain in a future role. As for Suki Waterhouse, I honestly have
no idea whether she can act or not because the script is so bad,
littered with wooden dialogue and bad choices throughout, that it's
impossible to tell. The characters consistently make decisions or take
actions that make absolutely no sense whatsoever. We are not talking
your typical Hollywood tropes either (Going down to the basement alone,
saying "I'll be right back," etc...you know the drill)NO, we are
talking actions and decisions that are so wrong they are insulting to
the viewer. Example, after narrowly escaping from a group of cannibals
and finding safety in a small town, our hero, sans two limbs mind you,
immediately wanders BACK OUT into the desert right back towards the
cannibal community.She then, over the course of the rest of the movie,
proceeds to fall for the head cannibal. A man who participated in a
barbecue involving her arm and leg!! I kid you not. I actually found
this offensive. And I'm not offended easily. I am baffled as to how the
director even considered this line of action for the character or even
what the point was. I'm totally mystified as to how anyone could have
thought this was a good idea. I found myself very irritated with Ms.
Waterhouse's character, to the point that I yelled at the screen
several times during the film, so annoyed was I at the character's
stupid decisions and at the creators themselves for letting this
character be such an idiot. It was like a roll back to before Buffy,
when women in horror or sci-fi were nothing but mindless eye candy.
You'd think Ellen Ripley had never happened. And this during the week
"Wonder Woman" came out. So, there you go. I hate to be so harsh but I
have no idea what Ms. Amirpour was going for here and in the future
suggest she stick to directing, for which she is quite capable. Just do
us all a favor and leave the screenplay to someone else.
<|_=00=_|>
Hoo boy. This movie requires some effort. What starts off as a brutal
exploitation flick, surely to weed out the meek, evolves into an
absorbing treatise on primal human conditions in a barren, deserted
wasteland.

While Ana Lily Amipour's sophomore effort contains pulpy roots,
littered with outrageous characters and circumstances, it also tackles
some grand topics. Our white trashy heroine Arlen is unceremoniously
turfed out of society to fend for herself behind a Texan fence, where
lawlessness and depravity are the rule of the day. She is soon captured
by a tribe of cannibals, and mayhem ensues.

Dystopian futures as these don't seem all that far fetched any more.
"The Bad Batch" may serve as a warning, but chiefly it serves as dusty
entertainment. Much like the "Mad Max" franchise, it is a world full of
crazies scrambling to survive in glorious sunbaked vistas. 

Sporting a primo porn stash, Keannu Reeves pops up as a bizarro, robe
clad cult leader. Giovanni Ribisi slips in several rambling, asylum
escapee diatribes, but it is an unrecognizable Jim Carrey who
absolutely steals the movie as a wizened bag man.

"The Bad Batch" has the art junk, lost inhibition, drug and music orgy
feel of Burning Man, and because it's stealthily asking tough
questions, has much more going for it than the cheap veneer may
indicate.
<|_=00=_|>
I went against my instincts when it came to watching 'The Bad Batch'.
Every nerve in my body was telling me it would be dreadful, but the
words cannibals, Jim Carrey, Keanu Reeves and Giovanni Ribisi kept
repeating over and over in my head until I finally gave in and made the
fateful mistake of watching it. My god, how is it possible to make a
story this boring out of cannibals? Every single thing it tries to make
itself interesting with completely falls flat. When you manage to get a
completely dull and forgettable performance out of Jim Carrey you know
you're doing something terribly wrong.

The film tries to be thought-provoking (at least it seemed like that
was what it was going for) but none of the concepts it presents are in
any way actually worthy of a second thought. It also goes for a lot of
style, however it again falls short. In a futuristic desert wasteland
setting there a thousand different concepts you could use to create an
interesting story. For some reason 'The Bad Batch' chooses a story that
could have been told in any setting and in any time period. That's
about as lazy as story-telling gets. If you do make the mistake of
selecting this one up on Netflix brace yourself for a long and painful
couple of hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is uncredited. I wondered why. Then I watched the movie.

Thing is, I watched the first 20 minutes, then put it aside, thinking
that my wife's sister's family, who are fans of edgy cinema and were
soon to visit us, would be down for an aprés apocalypse mindfock like
this.

They, like me, enjoyed the first 20 minutes. Hardly any dialogue (in a
good way), some nice directorial flourishes, a more than adequate set
up. Lots of promise. A good skeleton on which to put some meat.

A young woman is banished to a lawless territory in the desert, is
kidnapped by what turns out to be a community of iron-pumping
cannibals, has an arm and a leg amputated (and her wounds cauterized,
presumably so that the rest of her can also be eaten or, you know,
otherwise put to use), then manages to free herself and find her way to
a place called Comfort where the people eat noodles and chicken
instead.

I assumed what would follow would be a story of revenge and rescue, the
goodies of Comfort taking down the baddies at the Venice Beach
barbecue, maybe with some explanation as to how the people of Comfort
get access to gasoline, photocopiers, rice noodles and all the
recreational pharma you could hope for. (My guess was that there would
be some connection to a group outside the lawless land, perhaps some
sort of probably not-so-kosher arrangement between Keanu Reeves's Jim
Jones knockoff and his inworld suppliers.)

No answers came. None.

Despite a severe underbite, Jim Carrey managed to chew what little
scenery there was and he was still the best thing in the film by a long
walk. The moment he hands Momoa a snowglobe was when I knew I wasn't
coming back. The movie had left me in my own offworld without a clue
where I was going or what would happen to me when I got there.

Loooong story short, the girl falls in love with Momoa's Atkins
aficionado after eating some Guatemalan insanity peppers and tripping
out like she ate a bad oatmeal cookie at a Grateful Dead concert.

There's some other stuff. A kid who likes spaghetti elbows more than
actual elbows and who cries when her Daddy and her new stepmom eat her
pet rabbit; a homeless philosopher dude played by Ribisi, channeling an
amalgam of all those fidgety weirdos that Brad Pitt used to play; and
almost no dialogue not spoken by Reeves, whose explanation of where his
dookie go goes on for about nine minutes.

But it is bad enough to be a fun watch with friends who like movies
made without scripts by people who can't make a movie without a script.
Which is most people.

Seriously, I want to know the backstory to this debacle. My guess:
Super-talented young director makes great movie, gets noticed, then
gets one of those bags with the two dollar signs on it and access to
Harvey Weinstein's rolodex while he's in the bath. But the movie has to
be made in 10 days because Jim has a showing of his larger canvases at
a gallery where people will hand him bags with two dollar signs on them
because he's Jim Carrey, not because he's actually a talented sculptor
and painter.

Or Jim shook the snowglobe and handed it to the director, saying (with
only his eyes), "Before the snow has settled within, the script must be
written."
