
Sin 1: Tossing out established canon.

The coolest bit of lore about the first movie is completely lost in the
sequel. That alone is a sin you cannot redeem yourself for. In the
original, it was established canon that John Wick was not a man to mess
with. Even the main villain, respected and feared his abilities.

In John Wick 2, however, all of that is gone. Nobody fears John Wick.
Nobody is afraid to take him on. His past deeds and reputation mean
absolutely squat.

The new villain, never thinks twice about double crossing Wick. Every
hit-man on the planet, and according to this movie they are every
where, has no qualms about trying to take Wick out.

Sin 2: No main character growth In the first movie, we travel along
with Wick as he avenges his dog and in the end moves forward with his
grief. The video of his wife tells him to get up and move on. In John
Wick 2, there is zero character growth. He is no different at the end
of the movie as he is when it starts. Sure his circumstances have been
altered, but as a character he has overcome nothing. That makes for a
boring story.

Sin 3: Weak plot The original movie had a simple, but strong plot.
Revenge. The plot of the sequel is weak, even by action movie
standards. Wick has been called into service to kill a criminal, if he
refuses he dies... but wait if he accepts, he also dies. The whole
movie could have started and ended with the original premise of
refusing the contract. It would have made more sense to refuse the
contract and fight off the baddies coming to enforce the blood oath.

Sin 4: Video Game Bad Guys Wow. There is evidently a plethora of John
Wick cannon fodder. They just keep coming, and there really is no
logical reason why they do. The body count is so high that it becomes
comical. The original had a big body count, but it was divided among 5
big action scenes and, for an action movie, seemed plausible. This one
doubles the body count but there are so many, the coolness of each kill
is lost in an over abundance of victims.

Sin 5: Invincible Superhero Hit by two cars, stabbed and shot numerous
times and he just keeps on going. Must be seeing the doctor and getting
pain pills, right? Nope no doctors in this one. That kind of logical
realism may interfere with the killing of cardboard bad guys. At one
point a fellow assassin, holds a pistol point blank in Wick's abdomen
and fires a couple shots through him. No biggie Wick has another 42 bad
guys to kill.

Sin 6: James Bond Gadgets I love the Continental, don't get me wrong,
but the secret underground hit-man hosting hotel just goes too far in
this one. Bulletproof suit coats that can be held up like Batman's cape
to shield yourself from bullets? Silencers so quiet that two
adversaries can have a shootout in a subway between bystanders and
nobody knows even though bullet holes are being blasted into the walls
around them? 

Sin 7: Shallow Villains Yes there are the 140 plus cardboard video game
baddies, but in the first John Wick, the main villain had a moral
dilemma: turn over his son to save his own butt. The bad guys in Wick 2
have no interesting character motivation or dilemmas. The closest you
get is Common's desire for revenge after Wick kills his client. And
that was the most interesting bad guy on the screen. It is hard to
believe the two movies were written by the same folks.

Sin 8: Soundtrack John Wick 1 had an unbelievable soundtrack that
actually set the mood as he moved through the action scenes and the
emotional scenes. This soundtrack just plain sucks. There is nothing
memorable in it, and it does little to impart any emotion on a given
scene.

Sin 9: Pacing Even the big action scenes in this movie are too long. In
their desire to up the body count they went with longer action
sequences. It really messes with the pace of the film. The first movie
did a great job of dividing the action and keeping the viewer engaged.
The longer these scenes go, the less believable they became which pulls
the audience out of the moment.

Sin 10: Rehashing things that worked in the first movie There are some
great scenes in the first Wick, and the director knew that so they
tried to repeat them. This is a classic sequel mistake and
unfortunately Wick 2 falls victim to this trope. You liked the
interaction with Jimmy? We will get another one in there. Like the
reload and kill? We will put a twist on that one also. It was great to
see the pencil kills, that is how it should be done. Don't show us the
same thing but different. Show us new, that may have been mentioned
previously.

Making the next sequel look better then this one. The end of this movie
sets up a very interesting plot for a third movie and almost everyone
that walked out was excited to see it. That is wonderful, except when
that movie actually sounds more interesting then the one you just
watched. You should have just made that movie instead.

All in all Wick 2 falls short of the first one. Once again we are
treated to an amazing movie whose sequel just doesn't capture the magic
of the first one. I'm looking at you Red 2, Donnie Darko 2, Matrix 2,
etc...
<|_=00=_|>
"John Wick: Chapter 2" is first true great action movie of the year.
Bigger and better. It takes everything you enjoyed about the previous
film to a whole other level of excitement. For lack of a better word,
it's f***ing hardcore. There's something beautiful about the scope, the
choreography and the thrill of this film's violence, you just can't get
enough of it. And Keanu Reeves is relentless.

In this sequel, John Wick (Keanu Reeves) is forced back out of
retirement by a former associate plotting to seize control of a shadowy
international assassins' guild. As you fans of the first film would
know that there's a mythology, a secret underworld created for this and
so the sequel reveals the wide reach of its extent. It goes global.
Reeves is bound by a marker, a debt he made in the past, so he travels
to Rome to pay it but in doing so squares off against some of the
world's deadliest killers.

I think one of the things that makes "John Wick: Chapter 2" effective
is that many of the creative talents return, and screenwriter Derek
Kolstad doesn't rehash the first film, which is usually a mistake done
by many sequels out there. They take John Wick to international stage
this time around but this film is not about 'hey look we're setting him
somewhere else,' it's still character-based, it's about this assassin
who struggles between living by his code and wanting to leave this
whole once and for all.

And this is every action fan's wet-dream, to tell you the truth because
you have a character who basically can use anything, whatever he gets
his hands on, to kill. So what you see is once again a mix of martial
art and gunplay or gun-fu, and on top of that, you also get to see him
use a car as weapon, for example. No shortage of surprises in "John
Wick: Chapter 2." The fight choreographies are some of the most complex
I've seen on the big screen, definitely the most badass since "The
Raid," kudos to the stunt coordinators and also to the actors
themselves who are committed to making those sequences look and feel
like the perfect bloody dance.

In "John Wick: Chapter 2" the mythology expands and becomes
multi-layered, this whole secret society of assassins is irresistible,
luxurious, sexy, and lethal. It's so cool that pretty much anybody, any
character, on the streets can be a potential assassin, you just never
know who might launch at John Wick at any time. With John Wick, Keanu
Reeves has found his latest iconic character, in addition to Neo, and
Keanu delivers him like it's nobody business, tactical and precise.
"John Wick: Chapter 2" is how action sequels should be made.
<|_=00=_|>
To put it simply, the movie is fascinating, exciting and fantastic. The
dialog, the fight choreography, the way the story moves, the characters
charisma, all and much more are combined together to deliver this
masterpiece. Such an amazing flow, providing a fusion between the 90s
and the new century, it's like the assassins are living in another
world, with another mindset, without people understanding it. Just one
advice for you though: Don't build an expectation of what you want to
watch in this movie, if you do, then you will ruin it. This movie has
it's own flow and movement, so watch it with a clear mind, and have
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
And all of this equals boredom. 2 hours of the same thing over and
over. A movie for young teens who judge movies as they do video games;
the more kills, the better. After the 30th guy got his head blown off,
it became totally boring to me. John Wick gets hit by a car 6 times,
gets thrown down a flight of stairs 10 times, gets punched and kicked
500 times...and yet he keeps fighting. He fights 30 guys at the same
time, with a gun or without, and he always wins. There is zero plot,
zero character development, zero drama...it's all mindless action. And
repetitive. Fistfights, guns, and cars. Nothing else. Nothing creative.
Well they tried to be creative a couple times...like wasting 15 minutes
with a woman doing an elaborate yet gross suicide...and for no reason
other than to slap something 'original' up on the screen. It was
completely pointless. How this movie is rated highly is beyond me. Like
I say, it must be young teens who judge movies on number of kills. PS -
I'm not exaggerating. The main bad guy simply puts a message into his
phone, and within 3 minutes, literally the entire city is out to kill
John Wick. So he has to fight 30 guys at a time, killing 500 guys
within 20 minutes or so. Mind-numbingly stupid and boring.
<|_=00=_|>
I am retired at 41 years old and watch movies all day and night. I take
my action films very serious.. From Die Hard to District 13, from First
Blood to Taken... John Wick 2 is one of the best action movies I've
seen. Simply put.. on a scale of the good old 80's red blooded American
action films, John Wick 1 will draw you in and make you a fan, John
Wick 2 will satisfy your soul with the 2017 evolution of 80's action
with a feeling of have hit the gritty lotto. 

This is a man's man film that should be enjoyed after a hearty steak
dinner (as I did tonight). 

I may have to go see this again.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the hype. John Wick: Chapter 2 is not as nearly as good
as almost everyone is portraying it to be. It's a generic movie with a
dumb story line. Action is very repetitive - I got full-fed with it
after seeing first two action scenes. 

Best this movie has to offer is close combat, toe-to-toe fight. John
employs a lot of jujitsu. Of course he can handle fifty heavy armed
marksman with only a pistol. Imagine living in a world without police
and emotional guilt of any kind. That's a John Wick's world; a
dream-world of any teenager. Nobody in John Wick 2 displays any other
emotion other than desire to kill. This makes acting non-impressive,
characters forgettable and generic.

And why does almost every location look like a pagan temple? Why does
every character look like a brainwashed pagan high-priest? Soundtrack
doesn't help it neither; it makes everything feel more unnatural. This
is an R rated movie made for 10 year old's.

If you've already seen the original, you won't see anything you haven't
seen before. If you haven't seen it, ignore the second part and see the
original.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say after seeing "John Wick" in the cinema almost 3 years ago
I had high expectations on the sequel. I have watched the first part
about three more times now and it never became boring. My fear for this
sequel was that they couldn't get a good start into the new story. With
a few similarities that chapter 2 shared with first one this could have
been a huge let down. But god damn... this movie started strong and
oddly enough it started in a way that I didn't even think about. I
wouldn't say that the scenes were predictable just because they were so
different from all the other action movies I have seen. This movie
remains serious, whilst brilliantly combining dry humor with extreme
graphic and violent images. If you have watched this movie you will
remember this one scene... this one scene that you just can not get out
of your head sheer to it's immense (and freaking awesome) brutality.
"John Wick Chapter 2" is like a "Kingsman: The Secret Service" that
even though being funny, manages to stay serious throughout the entire
2 hours. It doesn't seem too long nor too short and strikes a good
balance between action sequences and story telling. In comparison to
the first one though Chapter 2 does not seem as realistic. John Wick
was a killer I thought could actually exist in real life after watching
the first movie. That was the reason I and I think many other loved
that film so much. Chapter 2 does lose some of it's credibility due to
a few action sequences. Remember, I am not talking about a Fast and
Furious like action scene here. This is criticism on a whole new level.
"John Wick: Chapter 2" went beyond my expectations and is in my opinion
better than the first one. Go watch this movie in the cinema if you
liked the part one. If you haven't seen the prequel I would recommend
you to catch up just because it's so good. Though it is not actually
necessary to follow and enjoy the story of Chapter 2. I hope this
review was helpful to some of you who couldn't decide whether to watch
this film in the cinema or wait for the Blu-Ray and DVD release. Go to
the cinema your money will be spend wisely. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
John Wick Chapter 2 pits Keanu Reeves' titular character against the
mean and nefarious of the criminal underworld. Once again, Reeves
proves that he is a force to be reckoned with in this ridiculous,
over-the-top sequel that is every bit as fun as the original. These
types of films are rarely known for their artistic value but John Wick:
Chapter 2 sets the bar pretty high, not only in its action, but in it's
set design and camera work. This is pure escapist entertainment and
couldn't have come at a better time. Those wanting to take a break from
watching the Oscar nominees, this film is exactly what you're looking
for.

The look and feel of the film is very much in line with the first. It
is nice, vibrant colors that compliment the violence and chaos. The
sound is absolutely amazing with each gun sounding the way they should
instead of using the stock machine gun or pistol sound which is
something the original was guilty of at times. The performances are
awesome, even if Common is rehashing his Run All Night character even
down to his wardrobe. And the direction of the action sequences is
beyond impressive. This is a bigger John Wick and one that does a nice
job at expanding on this guy's world. It really becomes a pulpy and
interesting world that I'm sure we'll all enjoy a third time around.
The only issue that the film may have depends on your taste in action
films. This is considerably longer than the original (almost by 20
minutes) but it moves so fluidly and so frenetic that it barely feels
like it. 

Overall, John Wick: Chapter 2 is one hell of a sequel. It has
everything a sequel should have and definitely doesn't disappoint. If
you loved the first one then you're probably going to love this one. It
is a straight up, balls to the wall thrill ride that is more than worth
the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
John Wick 2 is a great sequel that wasn't underwhelming it produced
great action scenes great performances and there wasn't a dull moment
in sight, its more fast paced than the first but all in good favor,
Keanu Reeves gives it his all and adds a lot to these movies I'm
hopeful that this continues on to be a great franchise, we got are
first peek into the mob underworld in the first movie and in this movie
its more fleshed and we get to know more about wick as the story
progresses as I said it adds more to the story in every aspect which is
to be praised. 

I also believe that the action set pieces in this movie topped its
predecessor with stunts where you tilt your head in amazement. Only
negatives sometimes the movie doesn't take time to stop and let you
have a breather but otherwise its a very impressive movie with great
acting, story and action sequences. JOHN WICK YOUR NOT VERY GOOD AT
RETIRING!!
<|_=00=_|>
"I keel you, I keel all of you. Kill, kill, and more kill." And throw
in a few completely pointless and stupid car chases and lots of
explosions for the mouth-breathers and you have a formula for a
successful action movie. We should make violence at least as much of a
taboo in film ratings as sex.

This is the wet dream fantasy of booger eaters and video game dorks
with an emotional age of nine. So John Wick is like the Harlem
Globetrotters and the bad guys are the hapless Generals. I think that I
was nine years old when the last time I enjoyed that bit of
entertainment which was about the same time I gave up on kung fu
movies.

If someone kills a dog in a movie a huge segment of our population
would blow a bowel in protest yet there is enough human death in this
bomb to fill a mass grave the size of Delaware. Doesn't this seem
strange to anyone? I bet this movie is the favorite of potential school
shooters, serial killers, and other psychopaths all across
America...but he's good to his dog...a pitbull, of course.

For all of the hundreds of people he killed in the course of this farce
there wasn't a single moment of tension. Ditto this for the
hand-to-hand combat scenes. We know the result before a punch is thrown
or a bullet is fired. What a completely ridiculous mess.
