
I usually (and quite easily) hand out 8, 9 or 10 stars to a film. In
fact, the majority of movies I watch receive good-to-excellent scores
from me. This one however, does not.

The jokes often feel exaggerated and forced, and are embarrassingly
childish with far too much profanity. I can't remember the last time I
cringed so often. Sure, there was the occasional joke which received a
giggle from just about everyone, but the majority of the humour was
replied to with silence and head-shaking. It seriously felt like it was
a movie thrown together quickly to make a decent enough trailer to lure
an audience. So, don't fall for it. You've been warned.

3.4 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Why him? I tell you why, because I can't think of any other actor who
can transform this this cinematic excrement into a gourmet dish. There
is a matteroffactness in his character that lives somewhere between
Rupert Pumpkin and Howard Hughes, the thing is that the life James
Franco gives to his character is absolutely real. The film could have
turned into a horror thriller, because Franco forces you, in the most
entertaining way, to feel slightly off-balance. That alone keeps you
glued to it in spite of the moronic lack of ideas. Bryan Cranston, of
course, is sheer perfection. Reacting hilariously to the absurdity with
infinite generosity - A trait of great actors - I wish them a Billy
Wilder next time or a Preston Sturges or...you know. Fearless originals
just like Franco and Cranston.
<|_=00=_|>
Why Him? is another entry into the "why these actors have to lower
themselves?" category of comedies. The same tired setup with the
repetitive jokes that lacks wit and fun. It is mind boggingly ludicrous
that Bryan Cranston couldn't get something out of this movie.

Good: Megan Mullally is clearly trying her best here in the thankless
wife role. Zoey Deutch is really cute so there's that.

Bad: It takes the situation to its extreme and it sucks the humor out
of the movie. Overly exaggerated scenarios that never work accompanied
by James Franco's overly stupid character does nothing to create a
laugh. Bryan Cranston is relegated to having an open mouthed look of
confusion on his face for the entire movie. The brother character
could've been taken out of the movie and nothing would have changed
that's how useless he is here. Keegan-Michael Key is wasted in a
thankless role. The movie goes on and on that it had maybe three false
endings that made it feel like it was going to be four hours long. They
also try to add a feminist message of sorts that feels shoved in there
when looking at the barrage of childish humor before then that it
doesn't work. Insert tired fart and sex jokes and we have the perfect
recipe for pain.

Overall, skip this. Cranston just puts on a confused look and gets a
paycheck, Franco just curses and acts stupid, the rest of the actors
here have nothing to do, and the jokes never hit. It tries to have a
message, but it was too little too late.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, when watching a movie billed as a comedy, and finding myself
over an hour into it without cracking a smile, I ask myself, "Why? Why
did I waste these precious moments of my life on such crap?" This was
my exact sentiment during this film. Contrived, sophomoric and actually
quite boring. If you want to experience those feelings, by all means,
watch this two hour exercise in profanity- laced verbal exchanges
between unlikable, one-dimensional characters. I gave it two stars
because I normally like Bryan Cranston and Megan Mullally, and they
give it their best despite having minimal material to work with.
<|_=00=_|>
Stephanie introduces her boyfriend Laird to her family, namely her
overprotective father Ned(Cranston). Who is dismayed at his daughter as
he tries to absorb the reality that Laird is a part of his life now.
Stephanie is so blinded by love that she seems to overlook her
boyfriends obnoxious behavior. There are some original jokes, Yet, this
feels like an R-rated version of "Meet the Parents". Which, in my
opinion is a better film in every way. Don't take my word for it, see
it for yourself and decide.

If you're going to remake a movie at least have the dignity to give it
the same name. What's peculiar is, it's made by the same people that
created "Meet the Parents". Which leads me to wonder, What were the
writers thinking? More importantly, What was the studio that approved
this film thinking? I'm usually open minded when it comes to comedies,
even if it's raunchy. However that doesn't mean that I will overlook
using recycled material and calling it a new brand.
<|_=00=_|>
Brian Cranston is the traditional father who struggles to bond with his
daughter's boyfriend, James Franco is the boyfriend, a Tech millionaire
who wants to win him over in order to marry his daughter. There's
frequent forced humour, with particularly lots of bathroom humour. This
film drops the 'F' bomb frequently (too frequently for me anyway!).

The audience had a few laughs, I think I remember laughing 2 or 3
times. The trailer showcased the very few 'funny' scenes and makes this
look like a much funnier film than it really is. 

If your idea of funny is frequent swearing then (unfortunately) this
film is definitely for you. Overuse of the 'F' word soon wears thin,
makes you realise it was used instead of clever humour. Please don't
waste your time and money supporting this nonsense or they will make
'Why Him2'. 

In summary, poor plot which has been done better previously, boring,
gross and vulgar. I wouldn't recommend to anyone, whether 15 years old
or older. 

Would not watch again.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly this movie scares me, the fact that it has a score higher than
6 makes me afraid that this is the future of comedies, targeted for the
new generation. I was hoping to see a Superbad style movie but this one
is just full of absurdity, completely unrealistic, everything feels
forced and absurd, the dialogue is just ridiculous... I don't
understand how these good actors accepted to star in this massive
garbage of a movie... huge disappointment...
<|_=00=_|>
This was on my year-end list as well. It was buried somewhere down the
list.. like it was nearly hanging off of it. Actually, it was in a
separate list of "Films I may or may not see in December if reviews are
really bad". Why Him? actually did get awful reviews. But for some
reason, I wanted to take a chance on it. I felt something was there.
For one, I am a Franco-file, and I love him in anything he's in. So I
went and saw it.

I was pleasantly surprised. I laughed a lot. It's really just a goofy
movie, and that's alright by me. Don't put too much thought going in.
If your afraid of not laughing, even a little bit, leave that nonsense
at the door, and enjoy the show. James Franco brings his A-game here,
and is once again totally hysterical. Bryan Cranston has great comedic
timing. Megan Mullally is a scene stealer. Kegan-Michael Key is
bonkers. It's got Kaley Cuoco as an awesome version of Siri, the best
of Silicon Valley, Adam Devine, a moose dipped in urine that explodes.
Oh, and 1/2 of the band KISS in full costume and makeup. It's been a
while since a comedy movie made a tribute to one of the greatest bands
of the 70's. Role Models was the last one. You could say that it's
shamelessly borrowing from Role Models, but in Role Models it felt
forced and unnecessary. In Why Him? It fits in with the craziness.

This is a holiday, cornball comedy that doesn't suck.. as they tend to.
<|_=00=_|>
Impossible to fully explain what a terrible waste of talent this film
is. I cannot offer one word of praise for this stinker. First it is
pathetically predictable, all the jokes are terrible, and the people
responsible for the script should be deeply and irrevocably ashamed of
themselves. Don't waste your time. Take a nap. Read a book, even the
phone book to avoid watching this mess. Hackneyed, physically ugly, and
devoid of joy. Simply horrible.

I didn't like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Every Christmas, my sisters have this new tradition where they take my
mom and I and go see a movie. Last year, we saw Daddy's Home. This
year, we saw Why Him? Oh boy...

Firstly, when I saw the trailer for this movie, I thought it looked
stupid, unfunny, and really annoying. But I choose not to judge a book
by it's cover, so I went and saw it. Besides, it's something to do.

What I got out of this film was a real bad experience. For starters,
it's one of those modern comedies that think that just plain swearing
and private part jokes are funny. They're not. Swearing could be funny,
but you have to make it funny by adding something to the swear. For
example, the Angry Video Game Nerd saying things like "F*ckfarts". The
main character, Laird, is pretty much nothing but a walking swearing
and sexual humor machine. All that spews out of this guy's mouth is
constant cursing and talking about wanting to plow his girlfriend's
mother.... Eww. He's played by James Franco, who I actually respect as
an actor and even a filmmaker. But he's really got to pick better
movies. As for the comedy, well... Like I said before, it's nothing but
swearing and sex jokes. Only a few random bits got a laugh out of me,
like when Laird's trainer or whatever makes some random noise at a
party, since I didn't see that coming. As for performances, well...
James Franco is a complete annoyance, and the rest of the actors are
passable. But the one I really feel bad for is Bryan Cranston. Seeing
him go through all these lame comedic scenes, it doesn't feel like he's
acting, it actually feels like he's really suffering on set. I mean,
who could blame him? If you had to go through all this failed comedy,
you'd be feeling miserable, too. Speaking of failing on things, this
movie fails on the heart aspect, which seems to be absent from most
comedies of today. You see, in a movie like this, there's always a
scene where the straight man comes to understand the goofball and sees
that he's not that bad of a guy. In Daddy's Home, they played it well,
but here? All I remember is just Bryan Cranston randomly having a
liking to James Franco, even though he didn't really change his ways or
Cranston didn't really see the good in him.

Overall, this movie is another one of the typical comedies that is shat
out from Hollywood these days. It's annoying, it's unfunny, and it's
completely stupid. Even though I hated this movie, there was one thing
I actually liked, and that was a scene where Laird is going "cheap
cheap cheap" to his chickens, only because this seems like a subtle
foreshadow to the upcoming Disaster Artist movie that James Franco is
attached to.
