
There is a lot going against this movie. Jesse Eisenberg's character
comes off as a complete asshole within 10 minutes of the film, thanks
to a really terrible scene between him and a Jewish hooker. None of the
humor in that scene landed, which just made the situation really sad
and uncomfortable to watch, and then kind of difficult to root for
Eisenberg at all after that. Steve Carell isn't bad by any means, but
he seems incredibly miscast in a role like this (not to say that he
can't act in roles that are more serious, but this Hollywood film
executive didn't really suit him). Both of the Dorfman parents come off
as really awkward on screen and thus kill any of the jokes that they're
meant to deliver. The only actor that gives a notable performance in
this movie is Corey Stoll as the brother, but it's not enough. Kristin
Stewart was mostly fine, but occasionally started picking up some of
her infamous Kristin Stewartisms throughout. Carell and Eisenberg
become really close out of nowhere, both of the couples' relationships
are sped up by Woody Allen's narration (which doesn't really add
anything to this film), and this movie is only 90 minutes long, so I
feel as if they could have definitely spent more time with all of these
relationships, instead of just having Woody tell us what was happening.
And on top of all of this, while this is a beautiful film to look at,
there is nothing new in this movie. It's another Woody Allen movie with
the same romances and love triangles centered around white people who
like jazz with a pretty inconclusive and unsatisfying ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen cannot make a quality film every single year. He just
can't. But even in his lesser efforts, the movie is always about
something, whether it be a dramatic (or comedic) focus on damaged
characters or maybe another of his many stabs at existentialism. In the
case of "Café Society," I was confused about Woody's intent since the
film is not funny, nor is it thought-provoking or really even
entertaining.

True, we have Bobby (Jesse Eisenberg), another one of Allen's
coming-of-age protagonists from New York who brings ‎his youthful
naïveté to Hollywood of the 1930s. Bobby commands most of the screen
time, but Allen did not infuse Bobby with any endearing or charismatic
qualities.

For scene after scene, I found the character to be so bland and
pointless that I could not root for him. Instead, we just wait for the
next moment of plot to come dropping on the character's head while the
new-found glamour of Hollywood surrounds him.

Further, Allen's scattershot script tries to include his oft-used
device of a love triangle, and the one in this film is among his most
muddled. We know that Bobby is the type who'll easily succumb to the
charms/skirts of his Uncle Phil's secretary Vonnie (Kristen Stewart),
and when we find out that Vonnie's boyfriend is really Uncle Phil
himself (Steve Carell), we know someone's heart is going to broken by
somebody in this trio.

But when Allen's script has Phil shifting his love from his wife to
Vonnie, then from Vonnie back to his wife, then back to Vonnie again,
we ask the question of ... why? It's not made clear to me.
Consequently, it's a triangle where no one cares who's paired with who
before long. And Carell's portrayal of Phil cannot make him a character
we care about, as he is just as yawn-inducing as Bobby.

I also kept asking "why" when I saw the story abruptly changing focus
to show us Bobby's brother Ben and his gangster ties in New York. In a
curious plot deviation, we see Ben assisting with a murder plot of a
mean-and-mad next-door neighbor to help two characters in the film,
then later going to the electric chair for it. Again, the inclusion of
this character felt so randomized, I kept wondering why we are supposed
to care.

If there's a redeeming quality to this whole mess, it's the film's
visual appeal. The costuming, the sets and the cinematography are all
Oscar-worthy in their authenticity. Allen clearly was trying to make a
piece of nostalgia here, and the LOOK of the film is simply
breath-taking.

His other attempts to wax nostalgic just don't shine. Yes, we hear a
parade of famous names, such as Joan Crawford, Paul Muni, Adolphe
Menjou, and Barbara Stanwyck, but there's hardly anything substantive;
as if sheer name-dropping by Allen would suffice to create a loving
tribute to the 1930s.

Allen, at his worst, still makes films that try to do ... something. In
other words, Allen does not seek to get rich off his movies by selling
the masses the commercialized movie brainlessness that makes billions
in box office sales. He genuinely tries to portray ideas, comedics or
characters that are worthy of our attention.

That's why "Café Society" is completely baffling to me. I know Allen
was trying to accomplish something. Very frequently, Woody is out to
make a thought-provoking film, no doubt about it.

But I don't think the bewilderment that's plaguing my mind are the
thoughts he wanted to provoke.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's latest, which opened yesterday in Paris and at the Cannes
Festival, is a gentle and thoughtful examination of love. Jesse
Eisenberg, best known for his portrayal of Mark Zuckerberg in The
Social Network, plays Bobby, a young New Yorker who heads out to
Hollywood in search of an exciting future. He falls for Vonnie (Kristin
Stewart of Twilight fame), the secretary of his Uncle Phil (Steve
Carell), a successful producer, and is soon confronted with the fact
that she has a mysterious lover. The resulting confusion is worthy of
Allen's mentor, Anton Chekhov. In an interview in the French magazine
l'Obs, Allen remembers his own experience in Hollywood, talking to a
producer who cut him off to take a call from Fred Astaire. We soon meet
all of the rest of Bobby's family, including a gangster brother and a
sister who is married to an intellectual, who offers such wisdom as the
quotation, "Live every day like it's your last and some day you'll be
right." With brilliant cinematography by Vittorio Storaro and great
performances from Eisenberg, Carell and Stewart, the film is one of
Allen's most enjoyable in years. The poster features a stylized profile
of a woman with a teardrop - love always includes an element of
sadness, even as it brings laughter and self-realization. A French
review of the Cannes opening compares Allen to Ernst Lubitsch, master
of urbane comedies of manners in the 1930's.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the 1930s, a young Bronx native moves to Hollywood where he
falls in love with the secretary of his powerful uncle, an agent to the
stars. after returning to New York he is swept up in the vibrant world
of high society nightclub life. 

Café Society opened this year Cannes Film Festival and is the latest
film directed by Woody Allen. It's a story that mixes various parts of
the Allen back catalogue to varying degrees of success. A film that
wants more than anything to entertain. In many ways Café Society could
be said to restate almost all of the key ideas and themes of Woody
Allen's films in one way or another: life, chance, fate, love and
guilt. 

It also comes from the movie providing the performances. Jesse
Eisenberg is so seamlessly cast as the prototypical Allen protagonist
that when the film shift from Allen's voice over to Bobby speaking it
feels continuous. Bobby's broken heart has caused him to undergo a
Bogartian growing up: from a gauche boy to a mature disillusioned man,
trapped in the wrong marriage. Moreover, Kristen Stewart sad eyes,
throaty delivery and slightly heartbreaking aura make her almost
interesting, ad an easy chemistry between her and her third-time
co-star Jesse Eisenberg and he fits perfectly into his role while she
simply overflows the screen. 

But if Café Society is Allen quoting Allen, sometimes literally, at
least he's quoting his better bits. Surprise comes from the movie
providing the honeyed cinematography by V. Storaro which uses
silhouette, graphic compositions and glowing close ups in an often
genuinely breathtaking manner. "Life is comedy, but it's one written by
a sadistic comedy writer" says Bobby. The comedy writer Allen on
display here is more wistful and nostalgic for the very concept of
unfulfilled true love, for the heyday of the Hollywood star system, for
a New-York of gangsters and back alley craps game and stolen kisses at
dawn in Central Park. And all of that nostalgia is okay. Because we
were getting pretty nostalgic for the good odd days of warm, witty,
fond and funny Woody Allen too. 

Make no mistake Café Society is still late-period Allen. Men are
described in terms of their characters and complications, while women
are still described in terms of their beauty and their effect on said
men. When Blake Lively's character motherhood becomes the butt of an
exchange between two men, about how women who become mothers devote way
too much time to their children (and ultimately not enough to their
husband); it's a sour note that reminds us that Bad Allen is always
there, underneath. 

Overall, this film is Woody Allen's most charming film since Midnight
in Paris and maybe most beautiful to look at, maybe ever. It's a little
pretty little reminder of what once was
<|_=00=_|>
Director/writer Woody Allen's latest film can be seen as one of his
most personal films to date. Dialed to the bright, nostalgic feel of
Radio Days (1987), Cafe Society nevertheless reels from an undercurrent
of existential authenticity a la Husbands and Wives (1992) poetically
and often ruefully addressing the feeling of having lost the road not
taken.

Our protagonist is young up-and-comer Bobby Dorfman (Eisenberg), a New
Yorker, whose dreams of making it in Hollywood rests uneasily over some
very scrawny shoulders. At first he's aided by his Uncle Phil (Carell),
an agent and powerhouse among the coastal elite. He sets him up as an
assistant and script-reader. Bobby's family dutifully keeps tabs on him
back in New York as he climbs the slippery ladder of Hollywood's
well-to-do, finding friends in Steve (Schneider) and Rad Taylor (Posey)
who have a hand in controlling the talent pipeline from coast to coast.
His closest friend and eventual paramour however is Vonnie (Stewart) a
comparatively down to earth secretary who would rather bask in the glow
of the warm sun then in glitzy opulence. He idolizes her, pines for her
despite her insistence that she has a boyfriend; an older man as we
later find out.

Woody Allen himself provides the narration for this gentle nostalgia
tour through Golden Age Hollywood. Much like his voice, the film feels
warm, familiar if sadly slow and blunted. Lacking the consistently
snappy tone of earlier works, Cafe Society leans a little too heavily
on the love triangle, which granted, captures some excellent drama but
is singed from overcooking. When we are rewarded with the usual
delights of Allen's repertoire, it all comes out banal, like a list of
axioms repeated one too many times.

Yet despite lacking the verbal excitement of Allen's prized
filmography, Cafe Society more than delivers in gorgeous
cinematography, characterization and themes which are glamorously
brought to life by a talented cast. Steve Carell's natural amiability
allows us to more easily welter in Phil's more unsavory character
decisions which includes having his nephew wait in the waiting room of
his office for weeks. He's an agent but he lacks the boorishness of Ari
Gold. He believes in what he's selling, and given the way he name-
drops by the poolside and the fondness industry insiders seem to have
for him, you can tell he's good at what he does. Jesse Eisenberg brings
the same frazzled nudnik buoyancy he previously brought to Allen's To
Rome with Love (2012). It's easy to see why Eisenberg is a repeated
player, the man brings all the trappings of Woody's old characters only
with a slightly stronger edge.

If there's one standout however it would have to be Kristen Stewart who
resists being the flavorless object of affection. Goodness knows it
could have been easy given the time period of the film (not to mention
her previous role in the Twilight Series (2008-2012)), but her strident
autonomy keeps us invested. She's a piece of Citrine amid fool's gold,
a girl next door above the ostentatiousness of industry fugazi. A girl
to bring home to mamma.

Much of Bobby's character develops between the intoxicating glamour of
Hollywood and the provocative corruptibility of New York City. The
dichotomy has a night and day quality that is mirrored by the earthy
Vonnie and the glittering Veronica (Lively) who appears later in the
film. Large swaths of the movie take place in the Big Apple, much of
which concentrates on the foibles of Bobby's sister (Lennick),
brother-in-law (Kunken) and mobster brother (Stoll). Far from being
unnecessary asides, these stories aptly meld into the film's large
themes: love, respect and regret.

With the denseness of a novel and the light touch of Allen's finest, a
question the emerges; what is the director trying to tell us through
this story? Bobby's balance between the two cities he calls home,
mimics Woody Allen's long, illustrious trajectory as a member of the
New York intelligentsia and a Hollywood staple. Perhaps he's trying to
tell us our problems may seem significant to us and every choice we
make means another choice has been deferred, yet in the grand scheme of
things, life is ultimately a comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
For me, seeing a Woody Allen movie is like spending an evening with an
old friend. It's something to look forward to, because you know each
other well and the two of you go back a long time. You know what the
conversation topics are going to be, because he has his favourite
subjects and lately he seldom talks about anything else. But that's
alright, because he knows a lot about those things and is an expert in
making nice conversation. Some evenings you spend together are more
memorable than others, but it's always nice to see each other.

Seeing Café Society was no exception. This was Woody Allen as we know
him: jazz music, New York, a socially awkward lead character, jokes
about being Jewish, complicated love affairs - all those typical
elements were there. The story is not even the most important part of
the movie - it's about a love triangle set in 1930's Hollywood and New
York, and about people betraying their own ideals only because they get
older. It's entertaining, intelligent and elegant cinema. 

During the years, Woody Allen seems to have perfected his style. He is
like a chef with a legendary signature dish: the taste hardly varies,
but it's always delicious. 

Jesse Eisenberg, playing the classic Woody part, and Kristen Stewart as
his love interest are adequate. They don't stand out as Cate Blanchett
did in Blue Jasmine, but are quite believable as two lovers who
ultimately marry the wrong partner. The thirties setting is nice: the
way Allen and his cinematographer capture the elegance of the period is
a joy to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot of the latest Allen's movie is your basic love triangle, set
in the 30s and with a small twist. Eisenberg and Stewart play the two
young lovers, Bobby and Vonnie, who meet in Hollywood, where Bobby
moved from New York.

Bobby's uncle, Phil, is a big shot in the movie industry and Bobby is
looking for a job. Vonnie is Phil's secretary and part of her job is to
make Bobby feel at home. After a few months, Bobby realizes is not
happy on the West Coast, but he is in love with Vonnie. 

Bobby proposes to Vonnie and asks her to move to New York with him. But
she has a "secret" lover, who also proposes. Bobby moves back to New
York alone, to work in his gangster's brother night club. The
denouement of their love story is melancholic.

I am not a fan of Stewart, but her part required some aloofness and
mystery and she did a good job - whether because she is a good actress
or because her range is limited to playing cold and detached I cannot
say. Also, the movie offers some classic Allen's punchlines, about
life, its meaning or lack thereof. The voice-over did not disturbed me
a bit and, as usual, the soundtrack is fabulous. Since I start to feel
Allen's nostalgia for the past, this movie fulfilled all my
expectations.

If you like Allen's movies, you will probably like this one, too. It is
nostalgic but not sentimental and elegant in an old-fashioned way.
<|_=00=_|>
F. It is a complete failure. Hands down, the worst film he's ever made.
Embarrassing. Pathetic. 713 cinematic clichés strung together almost at
random, many of them ones he himself coined 40 years ago. Here are the
same jokes perpetrating Jewish stereotypes, harping mothers, facial
characteristics, Spinoza, waffling intellectuals, the same unattainable
romantic ingenues falling unbelievably for a schlep (two in this case),
the same pristine crowd-free dusky Manhattan skylines, now visible
perhaps only in three locations if a filmmaking permit is granted, the
same madcap scenes thrown in to distract from a weak, predictable story
to keep you awake at Woody's arthritic nostalgia party, the same
visually untranslatable but wholly textual old jokes. Here is Jesse
Eisenberg looking almost - and sounding exactly - like a young Woody, a
mannered performance, no doubt another of the director's
self-worshipping tongue-in- cheek inside-seeking jokes. If that doesn't
work, there's Woody himself opening the film and interrupting it every
so often in a weary, zombie-like voice-over sounding oddly like Al
Sharpton to explain to the viewer the point of what his writing and
editing is incapable of realizing. Poor Woody has become a senile old
man playing chopsticks on an out-of-tune piano, trapped in his own
legend and incapable of a single new idea. If you remember Woody's
great films, do yourself a big favor and don't see this: it'll be
almost impossible to remember him well afterwards. It's sad to see
great artists - and there are others - compulsively make fools of
themselves late in life. Someone needs to rescue his dignity from his
overpowering myopia, or he may crash into the mirror and cut himself
badly. Allen's strong suit has never been self-awareness, only self-
consciousness. Here is a film that surely almost everyone over 70
living within two blocks of East 70th Street and 3rd Avenue in
Manhattan can relate to. There must be dozens. Think Grandpa in Depends
crashing your teenage daughter's pajama party.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen often is an interesting and insightful directors, whose
films regardless of how they come off overall look great, have great
soundtracks and he often knows how to get strong performances out of
actors, at his best his writing was a fine mix of the hilarious, the
poignantly dramatic and the thought-provoking.

'Café Society' is not one of his best films. Allen's glory days were in
the late 60s through to the early 90s, with the 70s and 80s (which saw
masterpieces like 'Annie Hall', 'Crimes and Misdemeanours' and
'Manhattan' for example) being particularly good decades. From mid-90s
onwards he became hit and miss, with the odd gem like 'Midnight in
Paris' and 'Blue Jasmine' but generally his glory days are long gone.

As far as his films from the 2010s decade go, 'Midnight in Paris' and
'Blue Jasmine' are vastly superior but 'Café Society' does fare better
than 'To Rome With Love' and 'You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger'.
'Café Society' is not a great film, but is not a poor one, generally
Allen has done worse (almost all of them being in the last twenty years
or so) but it really isn't one of his better films.

Its best asset is the magnificent cinematography, every shot takes the
breath away and complements the also spot-on and very handsomely
produced 30s period detail perfectly. The soundtrack also is an ideal
fit, giving a real sense of period as well as being a wonderful
soundtrack on its own. There are shades of prime-Allen writing, there
are some very funny moments, some touching ones and it does evoke
thought afterwards, Allen's themes done in an insightful way.

The story is simple but rarely dull, it is a long way from perfect as
will be detailed later on in the review but it did maintain interest.
It's nicely directed by Allen. Performances vary. Blake Lively is
positively luminous and Steve Carrell shows that he is adept at comedy
and drama in a role that requires both extremes. Was very pleasantly
surprised by Kristen Stewart, she can not do much for me but this is
proof that with good material she can be good, the role could easily
have been hardly one at all but Stewart does make the role more
interesting than he deserved to be.

Jesse Eisenberg didn't work for me, he just plays a younger Woody Allen
alter ego and it just comes off as a bad impersonation without being
either funny or charming, instead it's annoying and the neuroses are
overdone. Corey Stoll also feels very out of place, didn't buy him for
a minute as a mobster, the role didn't suit him in the first place and
it didn't fit within the period.

On top of this, the script and story execution aren't perfect. Mostly
the script is very enjoyable but some jokes, especially the bad-taste
and insensitive poking fun at Jews, do fall flat. Allen's narration is
irritating, overused and over-explanatory, more show and less tell
please Allen, consequently giving 'Café Society' an overwritten feel.
The story does suffer from too much crammed in and sketchily developed
characters (making the central relationships not quite as convincing as
they ought to have been), and while there was no problem with a more
morose at the end the ending just felt too inconclusive and gave the
sense that Allen was indecisive as to how to finish the film.

In conclusion, looks beautiful and has some enjoyable things but
somewhat unsatisfying. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
An upbeat young man falls in love with a girl in 1930s Hollywood. 'Cafe
society' triumphantly showcases Woody Allen once again at his utter
best as he turns the prior statement into a complex study of human
emotion filled to the brim with the same depressing realism in
conjunction with the light hearted humour that Allen is renowned for.
The film combines a perfect balance between cinematography and tone,
and the acting brings to life the superb emotive dialogue that is the
driving force for the narrative. The 1930s world built by Allen is
fantastic as is the chemistry between the two leads Eisenberg and
Stewart. Supporting characters are effectively used to develop the
story as they contend with real world issues and the existential
questions that keep us awake at night. Round of applause once again for
Woody Allen who shows once more that he is truly one of the greats of
cinema. Bravo.
