
PPs (police procedurals) are a staple of the film/TV industry and are
(believe it or not) as common as comedies or romcoms. However, within
that category, "big" PPs based on big crimes are not that common. In
fact, you would have to go back to the early 70s when a number of "big
PPs" like Day of the Jackal 1973 were all the rage.

So, a film like this done properly (and, trust me, this one is done
perfectly) would be a treat all by itself. However, what makes this
film extra-special is the extensive use of video footage.

Now, to be clear, video footage as a plot device is not new by itself.
It is now, and has been used extensively in British film and TV
because, as we all know, London is the most "surveyed" city on the
planet.

But -- the point -- nothing the Brits have ever done with the forensic
use of video comes even close to what Berg brings us in this excellent
film. Much the same way that the original creators of CSI-Vegas
introduced an entirely new sort of sub-genre, it can be argued that
Patriots Day similarly has taken the police procedural to an entirely
new level.

The film itself? Brilliant! Berg has taken a stellar group of A-listers
and make them work as a team, mirroring on the subliminal level the
theme of the movie, which is both positive, and hopeful, and suggests
that if we all work together, we can accomplish pretty much anything.
<|_=00=_|>
There seem to be a lot of negative reviews for this movie because of an
apparent mis-telling of the story or true story or hoax or whatever
else people have said. As I'm not American, and have very little to do
with American events (so hence have no context as to the truth or hoax
or conspiracy or whatever of the Boston Marathon) I shall just stick to
reviewing the movie for what it is: a movie.

As a movie, they did a great job pulling it together. Mark Wahlberg
plays his character perfectly. I have no idea if thats because of his
acting ability, or if its more the fact that someone has yet again
created a character that fits Mark Wahlberg to perfection. To be
honest, it's probably the latter. Because of that, if you liked Deep
Water Horizon then you'll probably like this because his acting is the
same in both (which works fine because it's similar type of emotion and
adrenaline you'd expect from both situations).

The character spread was also well done. You got to see the
impacting/impacted characters early on and had a nice transition
between their development as the movie progressed.

My only reservation about the film is that it pretty much gives you no
explanation as to why the bombing even happened. Sure, it's easy for
people to shout that it was terrorism or a hate crime, or done by
hateful people, but that isn't an explanation. It might be true, but
it's not an explanation, it's blatant ignorance which the world can no
longer afford. This film could have benefited so much from shedding
some light on the bombers motivation!!! To be honest, they were
actually the one part that let this film down, Their storyline was
wasted on surface level personality development and retracing of their
steps throughout the event. Instead, the film should have used that
time to instead show their motivation to commit the acts. This would
have deepened their storyline and given the movie as a whole, a much
richer and more stimulating story. In saying that, Themo Melikidze did
a great job of making a believable character out of the little depth he
was given.

All in all this was a good film, however, it does lack the depth and
backbone necessary for a second viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I was there living in Boston at the time of the bombings. I was in the
city to try to get a look at the Marathon finish line. Luckily I didn't
get that close. I did see and hear the bombs go off. My God the blood
was everywhere I could see that from even where I was standing. It was
absolute chaos.

This film is incredibly accurate. Mark Wahlberg's character is based on
several police officers experiences. There are some trolls on here
saying there was a political agenda or the facts are wrong in this
film?? They are completely out of their minds. Not even a hint of it.
Just the truth of what happened. I know I was there and I LIVED it.
Nothing hinting left or right.

I had the bad luck of working only a block away from where they
captured the last terrorist in Watertown. I was stuck in our office
sitting on the floor with State troopers giving us water bottles for
like 12 hours. No one complained. The city was in lock down. I
shouldn't have even been in work. 

When the police and FBI captured him people came out of their houses
onto the streets clapping and celebrating as the police came by. It was
a lovely thing to witness. Rarely do films do it right like "Patriots
Day" but they some how managed to recreate that same atmosphere. It was
an extraordinary time to live in Boston with everyone coming together
and this film really depicted that.
<|_=00=_|>
People who are giving this movie a higher rating are most likely
reacting to the theme of the movie and not being objective about the
film itself. I rented the flick, without knowing anything about the
film or who directed it. I knew of the story of course, but the cast
was good, and it looked interesting so I rented it. My opinion was cast
blindly and honestly. I only looked up the film later to see the
details.

The movie plays exactly like a made-for-TV movie. It follows the
formula to a tee. Peter Berg has done a lot of TV work so it makes
sense. 

Virtually the whole movie was done with hand-held cameras which ensures
a jittery constantly moving picture with the exception of the countless
aerial shots of Boston. That's really lazy.. The music is a perfect
blueprint for the music that is played on TV documentary to
unnecessarily boost drama. Again Berg has done a lot of documentaries,
so again it makes sense. 

There is one preachy scene with Wahlberg on the tailgate of a truck
that actually made me roll my eyes.. I thought really? Can it be more
contrived? 

John Goodman's character didn't really have anything to do.. 

J.K. Simmons character is aloof and mostly uninterested and has one of
the more ridiculous scenes in the movie. 

Michelle Monaghan really didn't have a part either. 

The performances were good, and I love these actors. But there is some
big talent wasted on parts that anyone could have played and we
wouldn't have noticed.

The movie pays tribute to law enforcement, but until the end, they are
made to look pretty incompetent and at times, witless. I couldn't
understand how that characterization was allowed given the purpose of
the movie. It was puzzling. 

The tribute to the actual victims was very nice. I certainly felt for
those people.
<|_=00=_|>
People are captivated by the extraordinary events. And people love to
be entertained. So what could possibly be better than a dramatic story
of extraordinary nature. Especially if it's based on real events, shows
the heroism of simple people and touches the audience's sensitive
patriotic spot.

That's basically a recipe for Patriots Day. Take the case of the Boston
Marathon bombing, the largest terrorist attack in the US since 9/11,
show it through the eyes of several regular people, first introducing
their personal lives and then following them along the course of the
main events. And finally, when it's all over, add some first-person
moral lessons and conclusions, so that we all realize for sure how
important and pivotal that event was for the people and for the world,
and feel privy to its changing momentum.

All by itself, it's a pretty good, even noble approach. But there's a
tiny little detail that changes everything: that all that must sell
somehow, because even the extraordinary stories have to be
entertaining. So the otherwise consistent and self-sufficient story is
being infused with dramatization, laying it on even thicker where it's
already been thick, and creating moments that might not have been there
in the first place simply to make the story more of a thriller. A very
similar thing happened just recently with Deepwater Horizon.

The result becomes a product with the typical Hollywood spin, but
proudly called "based on real events". That it might be, but on the
basis of real people's actions, beliefs and lives there has been put
enough creative imagination for the film to feel at times fake, at
times cheesy and at times way over the top. And we will never know for
sure if some or other moments that touched each of us personally
happened for real, or they were skillfully injected by the filmmakers
to genetically modify the movie and make it more appealing to the
audience. Having fallen for this trick before, I refuse to be bought so
cheaply again. So I really wish movies such as Patriots Day were made
as documentaries. Yes, maybe they wouldn't sell as much, but at least
they would be sincere and true. And what if not truth and sincerity do
such stories try to uphold?
<|_=00=_|>
"Two people took many days and weeks to plan out hate but love
responded in an instant." Tommy Saunders (Wahlberg) is a Sargent in the
BPD. He is assigned to the finish line of the 2013 Boston Marathon. As
the race is winding down the unthinkable happens and Tommy is right in
the middle of one of the worst terrorist attacks in history. Now, with
little evidence or leads Tommy, the FBI and every cop around conduct a
manhunt to try and catch those responsible. For some reason I was not
really looking forward to watching this. I think one of the reasons may
have been the fact that it is still too close to the actual events and
I remember watching it unfold on TV so I didn't think this would be
that interesting or new. That being said I couldn't have been more
wrong. The fact that this story is less than 4 years old really worked
for it because it really milked the events prior and it felt tense,
then once the bombs went off the pace really picked up and even though
you know how it ends you are still tense and on the edge of your seat.
I have said many times that there have been movies that are still able
to pull off tenseness and excitement even though you know the entire
story. This is one of those movies. Don't let the fact that you already
know what happened dissuade you from watching this. This is much better
than I was expecting and highly recommend this. Overall, tense and
exciting. I really really enjoyed this and was engrossed the entire
time. I give this an A.
<|_=00=_|>
Patriots Day tells the story of the Boston Marathon bombing and the
investigation immediately after. It stars Mark Wahlberg as a police
officer on duty during the bombing. Peter Berg directs the movie with
care, editing news footage and surveillance footage of the vent.
Patriot's Day also tells the story of the bombers and the lives of the
people they crossed.

Patriots Day is a riveting portrayal of the harrowing events of the
Boston Marathon in 2013. It presents both sides so the audience can
follow the investigation and the bombers. Through following the
bombers, the audience can follow and understand that the bombers are
not faceless antagonists. The bombers have their own agenda and
relations.

March Wahlberg gives an excellent performance as an officer on duty
bearing witness to the bombing. The movie presents the police point of
view and their mistakes in apprehending the bomber.

I highly recommend Patriot's Day.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie as one of Bostonians. This movie does
not have over-the-top action sequences or over-acting. It just tells
story as it happened and I really liked that. Yes, there are some
non-existing characters and elements, but I think those make movie
progression little smoother.

I highly recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The day is 15 April 2013; the place is Boston; the occasion is the
annual marathon. As we all know, two radicalised Chechen immigrants,
Dzhokhar (Alex Wolff) and Tamerlan Tsarnaev (Themo Melikidze), set off
two bombs which killed three people and injured several hundred others,
including 16 who lost limbs. 

This film is a very workmanlike and respectful, almost
documentary-style, account of the eve of the event, the bombing itself,
and tracking down of the assailants in a tense five-day manhunt. Mark
Wahlberg, reuniting with the director for the third film in a row, is
Boston detective Tommy Saunders, a composite of several real people,
while Kevin Bacon plays FBI Special Agent Richard DesLauriers.

For writer and director Peter Berg, following "Lone Survivor" and "Deep
Water Horizon", "Patriots Day" can be seen as the third part of his
unofficial Americans-in-crisis trilogy which probably play better for
US audiences than overseas, but manage to combine information with
entertainment.

This time round, the viewer cannot fail to be struck by the complexity
and sophistication of modern-day surveillance and forensic
technologies. If only these technologies could prevent terrorist
incidents (without too much of a sacrifice of our privacy and freedoms)
as well as find those who have just committed such an atrocity.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Peter Berg delivers another solid flick based on true events,
and this might be the best one yet. Good characters, who other than
Mark Wahlberg, were actual people. From Kevin Bacon to John Goodman to
Michelle Monaghan, all actors were at their best. And the decision to
use actual security footage of the bombers from the events gives a good
sense of fear of the actual events. I find the flaws being the actor
playing the older bomber, as he wasn't an interesting character, and
J.K. Simmons felt miscast.
