
Loved it. Jessica is very believable as uptight and smart, her lines
are delivered with sharp intensity and she is just darn right sexy.

Beautiful sets and cinematography. Cool wardrobes. Excellent whistle
blowing. Any film that exposes truths about how massive greed and
corruption are is a needed film to see.

The hidden message is NOT about gun control, it's about corruption and
how deep it goes. 

Seeing an educated, powerful women with needs also shows realism. 

The score is also nice.

This is a great film and is very underrated!
<|_=00=_|>
It makes absolutely no sense that this film is bombing at the box
office, this is a great film! Maybe it's because it's fresh off the
heels of an exhausting election, or maybe it's because of the other big
time films out right like Star Wars. I sincerely hope that it's not
because of the NRA, I hope that people won't avoid this wonderful movie
just because of the gun lobby. Jessica chastain gives a real powerhouse
performance as Elizabeth Sloane, a tough as nails lobbyist for the
Brady campaign. Also here is Sam Waterson, who works for the gun lobby,
and I really liked him in this role, he fit in it well and gives a good
performance. I loved the great writing in the movie and the clever
moves that are made. This political drama is so interesting and well
constructed. Mark Strong is so good here too, chastain and him have a
great on screen chemistry/presence too. The film will keep your
attention the entire way through, it has too because there is just so
much happening. Now I know that plenty of conservatives and big time
Pro-NRA people will want you to avoid it and maybe even write a bunch
of scathing articles slamming it, but don't listen, oh what a great
movie this is! 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a powerful female driven film about the title character and
politics. 

It's one of Jessica's best performances if not the best. This character
allows her to show so many things of her skill set. She's so
believable, every nuance, every line she delivers is just so perfect.
She should have been nominated for this role for every award show...

Miss Sloane is a great movie which has a very fast pace. You can't
predict what's coming next, great performances by everyone on the cast.

Forget about the bad reviews, even if you don't like politics this
movie will keep you interested. 

It's upsetting that It bombed at the box office. I think It's because
of the subject matter and people might had enough of the political
climate in real life. But It really deserves to be seen. 

I highly recommend this awesome, very underrated movie.
<|_=00=_|>
From the standpoint of a dispassionate observer separate from the
tangled mess that is US politics. 

One of the best movies I have ever seen. The intensity of the movie is
unrivaled. The genius who designed the plot of this movie deserves a
whole host of accolades for them personally. 

Twists and turns around every corner making it engaging on a level
similar to that experienced when deconstructing a Shakespeare play.
This movie is for anyone who desires not only a piece of quality
entertainment but also something that stretches their intellect. Aside
perhaps from the role of Tony Stark I have never encountered a more
badass main character.
<|_=00=_|>
So many users are getting their knickers in a twist. They are giving
this excellent movie with great twists a low rating because the story
is about gun law, and sides with, yes you guessed it, anti gun
lobbyists. All the 1/10s own a gun lol.

It's actually not about gun law at all. Gun law has only been used as
the subject of the day, to put the point across about dirty politicians
and lobbyists.

This movie is terrific. It's complicated at the start, but soon starts
to make sense.

The main character is terrific. Cold, hard and calculating. Great job!

I can't say anymore because I never include spoilers. Just trust me.

Whether you're for or against guns, that's not the point. This is a
political thriller folks. Sit back, relax and enjoy it!

BTW....it's not a true story. Don't take it so seriously.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic movie - exceptional acting, intricate plot, suspenseful
scenes throughout and an unbelievable twist at the end, which was
impossible to predict.

Whilst some gun-tooting viewers may not appreciate the biased view
towards the need for greater gun control measures (a point so
intelligently made by drawing an analogy with car ownership), there can
be no doubting the quality of this piece of work from a cinematographic
perspective.

The recurrent theme not of gun ownership issues but rather of aberrant
behaviour by self-serving politicians, if indeed not evident corruption
and nepotism, is a theme that will strike a strong cord in many Western
countries today, and lead us to question what democracy actually means
in a world where money plays the role of god.
<|_=00=_|>
i can tell that the gun lobby is also active on IMDb. this movie is
straight told with unexpected moves. it is realistic as well as true.
but in a world of alternative facts difficult to accept. it goes on too
long far too long.. it has to stop here and today. the connection with
the gun lobby and the senate is authentic. the characters are real.
what i liked most of all was the fact that everyone is selling out
anyone except the call-boy. in this world of business and in the world
of politics , the decent one is the one who sells his body. while
everybody would kill for their ego or for wealth.. he remains sincere
and surreal . the whore is the only person with ethics and value is
messed up world is quite a message, although it had little to do with
the main story... again i feel disgusted by the reviews who have
nothing to do with the movie but a lot with their political views...
the reviews prove this movie is true!
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched the movie and I have to say I'm shocked that it's rated so
low on IMDb, as I have watched much, MUCH worse movies with better
ratings. Scrolling to evidentially biased ratings and reviews I'm
giving it a 10, just hoping it will balance out the harm done. Jessica
Chastain delivered great performance, but she wasn't the only one,
whole crew was really good, but she really did earn that globe
nomination. Furthermore, movie is beautifully captured, cinematography
is great and whole atmosphere is really nice. The last but not the
least, it's a great thriller, with an unpredictable twist and not
boring for a moment. I do understand it's might be different experience
watching it for an European audience, as from the start second
amendment and gun legislative is for most of us here absurd, however,
although I can understand that for some Americans it might seem one
sided story, my question is aren't many of story lines one sided, to be
honest it's not advertised as documentary, so why should you even
expect other side to be equally represented? Strongly recommend to give
this movie attention it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
I picked this movie without prejudice, as I hadn't heard a word about
it. And I loved it!!!

The tempo is sustained, the performances outstanding. An interesting
story with a twist, well written, and the perfect cast. 

One element that also enhances the movie: its diversity. Multi-faceted
characters which gives spice to the story's meat.

The only downside: the way love is given a bad name. How do you want
the youth to connect if you keep telling them that love ain't the
sh*t?? It is a recurrent theme in 21st century cinema that i condemn,
because it perpetuates mechanic sex--humans deprived from feelings. I
am for a little more optimism in that domain and the human species.

My 2cents; LM ARNAL
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is awesome. One of the best pictures I've ever seen. Very
strong emotionally. The performances are top notch; all of them. But In
my opinion, this is Jessica Chastain's all time best role. She deserved
at least an "actress in a leading role" nomination. She achieves a
better performance level than Natalie Portman - "jackie", Isabelle
Huppert - Elle" or even the winner - Emma Stone in "La La Land". Again,
my opinion, of course. The interest prediction on this movie describes
an ideal curve, growing strongly from the start till the end. And at
the end it explodes in a rainbow of emotions you could never predict.
It's absolutely astonishing. Loved it.
