
Listen, I'm not a movie guru, I don't study arts, I'm just your average
Joe that loves movies. I've seen lots of movies, I don't discriminate,
terror, drama, action, animated you name it, I can perfectly
differentiate between a bad from a good movie, I don't need the biased
comments of the so called movie critics on IMDb. Thanks God I didn't
pay attention to all the misguided comments about this movie, Nocturnal
Animals is a beautiful & stylish movie, great photography, solid acting
and a solid plot that will stay with you long after you finish it. I
don't understand why there's so much envy and hate in the film
industry, the wannabe movie critics can't take that a guy who came from
the fashion world actually can created a pretty good movie. My fellow
reader, please don't miss the chance to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Nocturnal Animals is a dark and devilishly stylish thriller from Tom
Ford, who knows a thing or two about style having worked as creative
director for both Gucci and Yves Saint Lauren in the past. It could
have been in danger of being a case of style over substance however,
Ford's perfectionism makes this one of the most powerful films I've
seen all year.

Susan Morrow (Amy Adams) is an art gallery owner who spends most of her
life at home alone, with her husband often out of town on business.
When Susan receives a manuscript to a novel written by her ex-husband,
Edward Sheffield (Jake Gyllenhaal), she finds herself immediately
engrossed.

As Susan continues to read the novel, she has flashbacks to how her
relationship with Edward broke down as well as thoughts that the
violent thriller is a veiled threat against her from Edward.

I didn't know what to expect from Nocturnal Animals as I hadn't seen
any trailers and Ford's film ended up blowing me away. The way Ford
tells the story showcases how inventive and powerful he is as a
filmmaker, the narratives of both Susan's life and Edward's novel
combining brilliantly and leaving me in a trance like state.

Edward's novel provides the film with its dark soul, the story of Tony
Hastings (also played by Jake Gyllenhaal) and his family who run into
trouble when travelling through the night on the road to their country
home. It's pretty heavy stuff but it plays an essential part in making
this such powerful viewing.

This is a gorgeous film to look at as well, Seamus McGarvey's
cinematography echoing the story's bleakness and the brutality of
Edward's supposed veiled threat to Susan. The combination of the
visuals with Abel Korzeniowski's dream-like score heightens the sense
of escapism felt by Susan as she reads Edward's novel.

Coming to the performances, Nocturnal Animals features a very
impressive ensemble cast all at the top of their game. Amy Adams yet
again proves why she's one of the most versatile actresses with a
performance that combines the assurance of an art gallery owner with
the vulnerability of someone who knows they've made mistakes in their
past. With this and Arrival out in the coming months, expect to see
Adams get some form of recognition come the awards season, maybe for
both.

Adams is joined by Jake Gyllenhaal, who takes on dual roles yet again
for this film. Gyllenhaal has really grown as an actor, particularly in
the last five years, and its great to see him continue that in
Nocturnal Animals, more notably in the role of Tony Hastings, a
creation of his other character Edward. 

The rest of the cast features a scene stealing Michael Shannon, who
I've really grown to appreciate these last few years, a career best
performance from Aaron Taylor-Johnson, who is truly vile as the
villainous Ray, and Laura Linney who, even in the short space of time
we see her, makes one hell of an impact.

I cannot speak highly enough of Nocturnal Animals, a stylish thriller
that has more than enough substance to it. I will definitely be
checking out Tom Ford's A Single Man after this and I sure as hell hope
we see more work from Ford in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
At the outset, i should make it clear that i don't think this is a bad
film, but i felt the need to add a dissenting voice to the collection
of positive reviews that i've read so far.

The film is an amalgamation of elements that should work beautifully,
but ultimately resembles one of the sterile offerings to be found in
Susan's gallery. The acting is superb throughout, and the nuanced
performances of Amy Adams & Jake Gyllenhaal are worthy of their
reputations. The subtle transitions from dead and lifeless to young and
vibrant, exhibited by the former at various stages of the film, is one
of the most striking features of the piece. The film is beautifully
shot and well directed, and there are some truly moving scenes in
parts. However, as one reviewer has already alluded to, the film feels
like it is desperate to say something, but ultimately says very little.
Perhaps i just didn't get it at all.

The problem i had was with a lack of emotional connection to either of
the main protagonists. It's interesting to find out what happens to
both as the film builds, but ultimately i didn't care either way.

My partner and i spent some time examining the film on the way home,
discussing the parallels between the story at the heart of the film,
and the realities that continue around it, but despite our rudimentary
analysis of what each one meant for the other, and an understanding
that there are some clever parallels, what remained was the underlying
sense of "so what?".
<|_=00=_|>
The latest directorial effort from fashion designer Tom Ford, Nocturnal
Animals is an assault on the senses. I say this as a complement though.
From the gaudy and gratuitous opening credits to it's varied palette of
moody colours, it screams excess and expense. But unlike many movies
that feature visuals like these, the movie doesn't paint them
positively. Instead, our main character is trapped in a terrifying
limbo of what she admits is her own creation. One day, she receives a
manuscript from her ex-husband, played by Jake Gyllenhal. Due to their
rough split almost two decades prior, she reads into every word. 

The manuscript weaves a story that resonates with her broken state of
living. She wonders. Is it a threat? Just a harmless attempt to
reconnect? Or something else entirely? Cue top class acting and a story
that is as dark as they come. This is a short review and there is a
reason why. Nocturnal Animals is a movie best experienced with as
little prior knowledge of the plot as possible. So, get out there. In
the jungle of mostly underwhelming movies that is 2016, this is a movie
you can't miss out on.
<|_=00=_|>
Easily the best film I have seen this year. Great performance by all
the actors, fantastic plot with a lot of deep meaning and a very
atmospheric soundtrack. It's a very unique film. It reminds me of Basic
Instinct but without the sex and drugs. It looks like a 90s masterpiece
brought from back in time, a solid prove that Tom Ford is a great
director.

True love comes once in a lifetime, and we rarely get a second chance.
This film is about revenge and personal progress in life, Its about how
the decisions of the past can haunt our lives in the future and how the
pain we cause to others always comes back to us. This movie sends a
strong message to the people who easily give up on other people and
never give them a fair chance to shine.

I can't understand why some people rated this movie 1/10, just the
performance of the actors and the soundtrack of the film should be
enough to give it a solid 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure why this is getting such slavishly, raving, reviews (although
I suspect it's because of the 'luvvie' aspect thanks to the director).
It was painful, tiresome and somewhat hideous to sit through. It felt
like a very poor nod to David Lynch, and the theme of despair and lack
of redemption didn't add to it's lack of charm.

I read a review on the Odeon site which summed it up for me, so my
review will loosely echo a guy on that site. The film starts how it
means to go on - it assaults your senses in a really unpleasant way.
There is nothing new or clever about this film; it's an exercise in
bleakness, despair and much hand-wringing and naval-gazing by the main
protagonist, Susan. Lest there is any doubt in the mind of the viewer
about the theme towards the end, an art piece that spells 'revenge' is
given a bit of air time and another angsty scene is written around it.

It's nothing but an empty, dark little exercise in despair, thinking
itself more clever than it actually is. I nearly walked out in the
first ten minutes from the opening scene alone. I wish I had.
<|_=00=_|>
Its an uninspired and non-surprising moving. It's like Tom Ford thought
"hey, let's make something with art" and used all tools he could find
in his lunchbox. The end is non-surprising, the story between is
non-surprising and it has logical deficits. Why does the sheriff not
look at Tony, when he is searching for the killer of his wife and
daughter? Why did Tony talk and talk and talk, but didn't shoot the
killer in the first moment - haven't he seen in movies, what happens if
I talk and talk to the killer? The only interesting character in the
complete movie is the sheriff. The start of the movie - old naked
dancing woman - is awful. If you have the impulse to run out the cinema
- it is the right moment. This movie is a waste of lifetime.
<|_=00=_|>
With a sudden thump on the window a wild bird is stunned. It is reduced
to a heap of feathers and a barely beating heart. Through fantastic
imagery, talented and stylish actors at the top of their game, an
amazing and fastidious director, and an enthralling and thrilling
story, the characters in the film go through transformations similar to
that of the dazed bird. So did I. The film resonated deeply with me. "I
just can't do this anymore." I was shocked with this line that was said
to me in the same situation and manner.

Despite her wealth and ownership of a Los Angeles art gallery, Susan
(Amy Adams) is troubled by the absences and indifference of her
husband. She unexpectedly receives a manuscript from Tony (Jake
Gyllenhaal), her long estranged ex-husband. Passages from the
manuscript contain eerie parallels to her past and present life.
Reality is strangely infused into the story line. As Susan reads,
memories and emotions come flooding back. She struggled with
unhappiness then. Despite significant life changes, she still struggles
with it. She let go of a good man, yet maybe because she needed to.
This is what she tells herself. 

In Ford's stellar and meticulously made film, even side conversations
have substance and pictures on walls are connected to the story line.
Certain scenes alone make the film worth watching. This includes an
unorthodox interrogation by actor Michael Shannon. Shannon is extremely
ruthless and convincing. Laura Linney appears as Susan's mother. She is
even more brutal, in her own way, than Shannon. In a separate flashback
scene, where all that is heard is a heartbeat, I was spellbound. The
unexpected ending, the even more surprising opening, the twists and
turns, and depth of the film, thrilled and delighted me. Tom Ford's
background in the design industry is apparent in the spectacular
lighting, stylish clothes and sophisticated dialogue. In the second
showing of the film in North America, Ford received a standing ovation.
I stood too. I loved listening to him talk and teasing people in the
front row for distracting him with their cell phone cameras. His theme;
do not let go of love if and when you find it. Seen at the Toronto
International Film Festival.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't you love my title? Don't you love how I make a statement? Just
like this piece of crap film thinks it does. I don't think the writer
realized it was a movie not an abstract painting. Movies have purposes,
movies have a beginning, a middle, and an end; movies that build to
something usually lead somewhere but this pile of junk leads nowhere!
Frustratingly nowhere! Hence the title of my review. It builds and
builds and has no release it just ends abruptly if you want to call it
an ending. so our leading lady is a cliché. She's a career woman
married to a career man whose having an affair which is not shocking at
all. She was married once before and her ex-husband,a novelist, sends
her his book. Most of the movie is about the guy in the story whose
wife and daughter are kidnapped and raped. He works for over a year
with a detective to catch the murderers. Now why the entire movie was
not that story instead is beyond me. I could give a crap less about how
she left her novelist husband after aborting his child just to end up
with a cheating husband. Who cares about that storyline since it had no
point! That storyline ends with her being stood up in a restaurant
drinking scotch. The end. Really? I also found out Tom Ford designs
clothes. He should probably stick with that. And the beginning of this
movie with fat naked women dancing in slow motion was supposed to be
some crap statement when really it was just uncomfortable to watch and
stupid. About as pointless as the film itself. The film creator is the
man and the audience the woman in my mind. Having said that the "man"
is pleased. They made money, managed to get brilliant actors to do
their crap film, and live happily ever after in their mansions. I the
"woman" or audience if you will am left unsatisfied and $9 shorter but
hey glad i could contribute to their yachts. And for those who like
this junk and think I'm too dumb to grasp metaphors if thats what this
movie thinks it is, one big metaphor for something, I urge you to see a
film called Silent House. That is a film full of metaphors and
statements that work with a storyline that builds to an actual finale.
This is the worst film of the year and I'm saying that in a year when
the remake of Ghostbusters came out with a frigging female cast (ohh
guess that makes me sexist) as well as the release of the ever so
pointless sequel to Independence day. But this film? Absolutely
terrible. Rubbish as the Brits say. I wouldn't Netflix it. I wouldn't
Redbox it. I'd wait for it to come on Lifetime if you really want to
see it that way you can take shots during the commercial breaks just to
make it tolerable.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, Nocturnal Animals was completely unbelievable right from
the beginning, with dialog that seemed written by a machine. Given the
'novel' idea, that might have been excused, but all the dialog in the
supposed 'real world' was just as bad. The only actor able to shine
through this pretentious crap was Michael Shannon, but after a time his
character just disappeared from the story. And what was Michael Sheen
doing in this movie? And the nude fat dancers? It really added up to
nothing. And oh my goodness, what a payback for leaving a man and
aborting his child: He got her to go to a dinner meeting AND DIDN'T
SHOW UP! Wow! Now that's payback in a BIG WAY! Sorry, but this exercise
in audience manipulation was a real disappointment after A Single Man.
