
I was not a Holocaust Denier ever but after watching the movie I became
one. Not because of the historical facts exposed in the movie but I saw
how the whole Holocaust saga had been hijacked by Jewish agenda. This
is a movie and this is a movie review so politics should not feature.
But that is the essential point of the movie (and this review) that
there are times you can bring your politics to work(place) and there
are times when you cannot. So If you are a 'denier' of any variety,
holocaust, climate change, you are a pariah. If on the other hand, your
politics is 'in line' however flawed your politics may be, it is OK. 

Well Donald Trump's victory changed all that. But I digress. The movie
is a must see not because of the history of Holocaust or the 'holes'
(no pun intended) in it. It is a must see to see a bunch of British
actors totally blow away the so called Hollywood megastars out of the
park when it comes to acting. Rachel Weisz is British and I am proud to
be one because of her. What an actress. I mean, how much more annoying
could she be in her portrayal of the main woman Deborah Lipstadt or
whatever her face was? The real Lipstadt woman must be insufferable and
Ms Weisz brings to screen every, blink, every frown, every angst, every
annoying little hissy fit of someone who is peddling on the Tyranny of
Victimhood. Yes, Free Speech gets buggered but that is not the point.
Free Speech had been long buggered by Liberals. It is the shrilling,
hysterical, pointless auto-erotic convulsions of victim-hood that has
to be preserved, celebrated, perpetuated that is the point of the movie
and Ms. Weisz excels as its chief purveyor. What a piece of acting.
Deborah Lipstdet or whats her face is allowed to have all the emotions
Ms. Weisz brought to screen. We are allowed to call her out for that
(in real life) but that is not the point. The point is to be aware of
what those emotions are and where they come from. 

Take the Solicitor (the lawyer who is a minor celebrity because he
assisted the Queen of Victimhood- the Late Lady Diana Spencer, HRH The
Princess of Wales)- what consummate acting by Andrew Scott! If you need
to learn how to shut up a screaming overgrown baby throwing a
tantrum..watch him. Take the Barrister. The hard drinking, smoking
(horror!) feeling less (touchy-feely feeling less) lawyer. He shows the
world: 'This is how it is done', both the acting and the lawyering.
Take the supremely annoying performance of the excellent Caren
Pistorius (who by the way must have her Thyroid checked and that
unsightly Goiter dealt with- come on, you must have 'Obamacare' at
least!!) who is the epitome of agenda driven lawyers springing up
everywhere, even sadly in England. 

And what about Timothy Spall? The real 'bad guy' in the movie. Why is
he a bad guy? Duh! Because he denies Holocaust. He questions lack of
proof in some of the stuff that has become 'truth'. He questions the
fact that the 'history is written by victors'. He is pilloried by
current academics, not based on facts of history, but based on the fact
that David Irving is a Racist. So because he is a 'racist', his
opinions are not valid. Fine. But he is not allowed to say stuff he
genuinely believes because the stuff he believes is truly bad stuff.
There goes your First Amendment. But then who cares. 

This movie should be watched for its acting, not for the history. Not
for the Drama. Not for the Court process. Not for the flawed 333 page
Judgement handed down by a retarded Judge who could not side with
freedom of speech but bowed to political correctness. But if ever the
entire acting crew of a movie should be nominated for an Oscan, 'en
bank' as they say in Appeal Courts, then this is it, this is it, this
is it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pathos laden,syrupy melodramatic Hollywood film.The film's
portrayal of the historian David Irving is highly distorted,he is
depicted as a pompous,ranting & raving buffoon with a speech
impediment.Exaggeration and crude simplification is employed in order
to ignore the real nuances.Obviously Timothy Spall was under pressure
to characterize Irving as a baddie but the spluttering caricature he
offers up is of someone who barely resembles a functioning human
being.Usually an actor becomes very sympathetic to their character
during their research and preparation & that is what enables them to
bring the character to life. Sadly with this role Spall is overly
anxious to let the audience know 'I do not care for this stigmatized
person' and because of this psychological need to distance himself from
Irving, his acting is bad, it is uncharacteristically one dimensional.

Viewers need to bear in mind that this was a libel trial and it was not
a test of historical truth as the movie is claiming. Irving,a famous
best selling author,started having problems getting book contracts
after the academic Deborah Lipstadt wrote about him giving him the
Orwellian label of '"denier". He began to be blacklisted and his income
was suffering and his response was to seek some justice.Deborah
Lipstadt had at her disposal a multi million dollar team of lawyers
paid for by Steven Spielberg and his foundation,so this was not a 'fair
fight'...from the outset there was never a realistic chance of lone
litigant David Irving succeeding with his legal action.

This movie is mind-numbingly boring and generic.The question we should
all be asking ourselves is: why do people still bother paying to see
Hollywood films when the vast majority of them are predictable
propaganda.The movie relies on straw man fallacy. Strawman or stick man
is the term used when someone constructs a more easily defeated version
of his opponent's position to attack, rather than addressing his real
arguments.The fallacy itself is comparable to defeating a dummy
version, then claiming you have defeated an actual opponent.

Denial contrasts duality, the socially respected heroine encounters a
shadowy villain. Lipsdat is being portrayed as defenseless in the
presence of danger, as if an ogre is stalking a maiden in distress.
Horror movies often utilize this theme,when a menacing mad man attacks
a defenseless victim. Screen writers are aware this usually elicits a
primal response in an audience.Irving is thoroughly demonized and the
Zionist Deborah Lipstadt is portrayed as a heroine.That ridiculous
Oswald Mosley-esque scene where he is rabble raising a bunch of neo-
Nazis into a hate filled frenzy was not true to life at all,it was a
gross misrepresentation of reality.In real life Irving is softly
spoken,lucid,eloquent, and very precise in how he explains his
views.After watching this film,buy his books, upload his lectures and
make the effort to properly understand the complexities of this issue.

This film is based on what is known as an 'overcoming the monster'
theme - this is a common & predictable archetypal theme in
storytelling.

(1) Heroine becomes aware of a monster (Irving is depicted as evil
personified-an irrational beast) (2) The ordeal begins (legal action
initiated) (3) She prepares to fight the monster (legal team assembled)
(4) Heroine and her trusty helpers become frustrated and scared of the
monsters power (Irving is coherent in court) (5) Monster is defeated
and the treasure is won (Irving loses his case)

Monstering is an 'othering' theme that is often found in political
literature.It's used to signal to people that there is some kind of
threat to established rules/norms that demands the confirmation and
protection of authorised values.

I found some of the dialogue in this movie rather concerning. Lipsdadt:
"What do you think Anthony?" 

Anthony: "What do I think? I thought it was the most boring morning
that that we've had in court so far." 

Lipstadt: "My God, you love to be contrary" 

Anthony: "Well the man's an anti-Semite and a racist. It's like having
(censored) on your shoe. You wipe it off, you don't study it."

Linguistically reducing a man to the level of a biological function is
incredibly mean spirited and spiteful.Unfortunately there is excessive
black and white reasoning in this movie. I'm specifically concerned
about the amount of polarization used.Turning perceived tormentors into
cartoon villains ignores their humanity.

This film is based on the stark polarity of 'right wrong' 'saint
sinner' 'good bad'-with no in between.There is no mature analysis.
Irving is relentlessly derided - this demonstrates an immature
primitive reasoning- dichotomizing people into all good and all bad
encourages an us versus them mentality. In real life there is never a
grand dividing line between us and them.

The following are the core elements that are being perpetuated.....
Indignation...Intense dislike...Negative binary stereotyping...A Total
lack of any empathy for the hated man...An Underlying tone of sneering
hostility.

Demonizing people may be gratifying,in a primitive way. Put very
succinctly - insulting & belittling others can make people feel better
about themselves, but ultimately its very shallow...it isn't
constructive.Viewers are manipulated into agreeing that the bad guy is
'all bad' they are being manipulated into despising him. Negative
Binary Stereotyping is appealing - it's quick to understand and
extremely easy for the brain to process however the more discerning
viewers will quickly realize that real life is more complex.
<|_=00=_|>
David Irving is an extremely intelligent, well educated man. His work
is very, very well researched. That is why they felt compelled to make
this (really bad) movie about him, to try and discredit him. Read some
of Mr. Irving's works for yourself. Watch some of his videos on
youtube. We no longer have to accept whatever Hollywood tells us. We
can use the internet now to do our own research. The truth is out
there, but we must seek it out ourselves.
<|_=00=_|>
What hit me was the line by Tom Wilkinson - "Why has there not been a
proper scientific study of this whole siteby reputable
scientistsfifty years after the fact?" That's a good - and fair -
question.

These 'Holocaust' driven movies never fail to leave me a little empty.
I do understand that exact numbers (body count) is near impossible to
compile. However ... usually what is left out ... or mentioned vaguely
... is the other 5-7 million non-Jews murdered by the NAZI's. Why is
that? Do they not count? Should they not be remembered too? Anyway ...

I'm not clear on what this movies was representing ... The legal system
in the UK? ... David Irving is a convicted liar (in the UK)? ... The
(many) lunatics lose in our society? Clearly (if the movie is accurate)
David Irving set out to use this case as means to 'spotlight' (market?)
his re-engineered history. Is this what we are to walk away with? Or is
it that he failed? At best this should, at least, get some open -
honest - exchanges on this subject? After all ... 'Eugenics' isn't
going away and this does need to be exposed?
<|_=00=_|>
the movie is poorly written with a soul intention of defaming one
person and possibly to show what happen to holocaust deniers. the
makers of the movie didn't realize that the people who knew nothing or
have very little knowledge about holocaust actually will become more
skeptic rather than sympathetic.

i am not a sympathizer of David irving and frankly i never knew him
before this movie. watching this movie one thing was clear, the writer
was clearly biased against David irving by not showing his part of
argument.

the movie was based on a case which was carefully constructed by
powerful lawyers team against one defenseless person and their strategy
to proving him a liar instead of countering his claim with facts. at
the end of the trial all they managed to prove that Irving was an
anti-semite and did manipulate the fact but the point of whether
holocaust actually happened or not remain a question.

i watched this movie hoping that there will be trials based on facts to
prove and historical event but sadly i am very disappointed.

the only good thing about the movie is the acting of lead actors.
Rachel weisz was exceptionally good. Tom Wilkinson, Timothy Spall and
Andrew Scott did a good job
<|_=00=_|>
For Denial, the most shocking thing about this film was that it was
made in 2016. Everything about the camera work is so bland and
uninspired at introducing Professor Deborah Lipstadt that if enough
context was removed this film could literally be about any female
professor that's liked by her students. 

The initial barrage of Professor Lipstadt's routine is a series of
extremely bland cuts from organically lit shot to organically lit shot,
and in that barrage the blandness emerges. The trope of the beloved
professor is so shoehorned in to create a character for Prof. Lipstadt
that I feel completely alienated from the character at large. Denial's
pacing alone is so bizarre at jumping to the lawsuit that I'm wondering
why I should care about a story fighting Nazism. Jackson feels as
though he's done enough to make me empathize with Prof. Lipstadt by
showing me at the 14 minute mark how she'll be fighting an uphill legal
battle. Around the 19 minute mark, Jackson choses to actively waste our
time with an extremely unoriginal rainy London sequence to establish
that she has arrived, and even though it's a minute long it's failure
of purpose makes it stand out so belligerently. Rachel Weiss' acting as
Lipstad feels so inorganic that I am completely skeptical and extremely
bored by lines meant to be inspirational as "my mother always said
there was gonna be an event. That I was picked out, I was chosen well
here it is." (16:01) That alone is one of many lines that seems to have
been taken verbatim from a book. Denial at large is a very aggressively
okay film, and at large it seems as though the only thing it's missing
is commercial breaks. A quick look through Denial's director's past
works shows that the vast majority of his experience prior to his 2016
film is in television. Denial's entire goal of presenting an uphill
battle for truth against hate, with it's recurring shots of stairs
among other grandiose imagery of rising above, fails so spectacularly
entirely because of it's pacing and strange dipping in and out of
Documentarian nature. 

If a film tells me that it's "based on true events" then why on earth
is it showing me meaningless dates and times? Saying your movie is
"based on true events" is the most blatantly lazy form of opening a
film beyond subtitles showing location and narration, which this film
also does. Denial if anything seems in denial of the fact that it's not
an HBO series, but a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Rachel Weitz gives one of the worst performances you'll ever see and is
out-acted in every scene. A real stinker of a film, that comes across
more like a cheap, made for TV, court room drama than a proper movie.
Only Timothy Spall comes out of it with any credit, how this could be
mentioned as a possible Oscar nominee is madness, worst film I've seen
all year.
<|_=00=_|>
He (the jew) works systematically for revolutionization in a twofold
sense: economic and political.

Around peoples who offer too violent a resistance to attack from within
he weaves a net of enemies, thanks to his international influence,
incites them to war, and finally, if necessary, plants a flag of
revolution on the very battlefields.

In economics he undermines the states until the social enterprises
which have become unprofitable are taken from the state and subjected
to his financial control.

In the political field he refuses the state the means for its
self-preservation, destroys the foundations of all national
self-maintenance and defense, destroys faith in the leadership, scoffs
at its history and past, and drags everything that is truly great into
the gutter.

Culturally, he contaminates art, literature, the theater, makes a
mockery of natural feeling, overthrows all concepts of beauty and
sublimity, of the noble and the good, and instead drags men down into
the sphere of his own base nature.

Religion is ridiculed, ethics and morality represented as outmoded,
until the last props of a nation in its struggle for existence in this
world have fallen.
<|_=00=_|>
While Denial is easy to watch and not particularly boring I found it
also unrewarding. The story is a compelling one, especially if one has
a strong interest in history and is familiar with the epistemological
questions raised. Denial, however, allows for little nuance and no
tension, making for a monochromatic experience.

The film's characters are portrayed as each having but a single
dimension. Deborah Lipstadt is the crusading Holocaust historian. Of
her the audience learns that she's got a Queens accent, goes jogging,
loves her dog, but little else. What prompted her to teach this
subject? Why publish a book about denial? By way of explanation the
film offers that her mother named her Deborah. There is a similar lack
of substance to each of the other characters. We are told David
Irving's Holocaust denial stems from his childhood in WW II but nothing
is said of what motivates him, and nothing of his work on issues such
as Dresden or the naval action which saw his father sunk. Anthony
Julius is accused of being after his own aggrandizement, but there's
nothing in the film to suggest this or to suggest that the viewer
should care what his motivations are.

The plot arc is as simple as the characters. Lipstadt is introduced and
accused of libel and then for the remainder of the film we watch her
legal team go about her defense. With Irving wild-eyed and unpleasant,
the Lipstadt team noble and hard-working, there is little doubt of the
outcome, even if the viewer is unfamiliar with the case. The one moment
of dramatic tension comes at the close of the trial, when a question
from the judge seems to throw Lipstadt's defense off balance. While the
audience seems intended to worry, at this point with Irving so
thoroughly distasteful and Lipstadt and company so noble, dedicated,
and devoted to such good wines there can be little doubt of the trial's
outcome.

Steven Spielberg is referred to towards the end of the film, and indeed
there is a Spielbergesque quality to several scenes, especially the
visit to Auschwitz/Birkenau. It is winter. The camp is deserted and
frosty with snow. Lipstadt is upset that her lawyers are not
sufficiently respectful of the dead. The film's score, the ghostly
images of victims descending the gas chamber stairs, a technical
expert's injunction to step carefully because the site is hallowed
ground, all hammer home to the viewer what must be felt, lest one
mistakenly have an illusion of choice. Likewise in the closing scenes
Lipstadt goes jogging and triumphantly stands before a female statue.
Atop the plinth the camera holds on Winged Victory. At this point my
date leaned over to quip that this was in case we weren't clear on what
had happened. When a film's devices are chuckled at this is an
indication they are perhaps not effective.

Curiously Denial presents Lipstadt's triumph as what she did not do,
rather than what was done. At one point a question of conscience is
introduced in the person of a Holocaust survivor who demands to testify
on behalf of those who did not survive. Lipstadt assures her that
she'll have her day in court, despite Julius & Co.'s decision that
there will be no survivor testimony (strictly for the survivors' good
we are told, as Irving would tear them apart). Lipstadt is torn, and
argues for the survivors but in the end she and they must remain
silent. Lipstadt's lack of contribution to her own defense is
underscored by several exchanges with Julius where she forcefully gives
guidance yet is brushed off. Julius and colleague Richard Rampton
obviously know what they are doing as they win Lipstadt's case, but the
dynamics involved are such that Lipstadt's closing lecture left this
viewer a bit confused. We shouldn't be so quick to claim what we'd have
done in the place of Germans faced with the Holocaust, Lipstadt's
college students hear. In the face of public obloquy fighting evil is
hard work they are told. So the right thing to do to resist genocide is
to remain silent while one's high-powered lawyers argue in civil court?
I left Denial feeling less roused to action than I might have.
<|_=00=_|>
Instead we got a merely OK effort. The movie is not actually bad, it
has interesting moments and a clever inter-textual message that relates
to current events but sadly I can't ignore that it leaves the message
it tries to transmit feeling empty, defeated and overused.

The movie talks about a dispute between historians and it's based on
true events. One historian, a Jew, writes a book about Holocaust
denialists and calls the second historian antisemitic and racist
because he denies the Holocaust happened. The second historian sues the
first and the movie is mainly about the trial, both the preparation for
it and the execution.

Now the movie cleverly tries to illustrate an issue that is very fresh
in the collective minds of the public currently and that is fake news,
populism, etc etc. The second historian, the populist, is portrayed as
the loud person who loves to engage others in debate and listen to
himself talking. He is immune to facts, data, reason, anything that
goes against his discourse. The first historian, or at least her
defending team of lawyers, champion calmness, methodical and surgical
engaging, silence and reason over loudness and emotion.

The thing is that, even if reason can prevail on a trial, reality shows
that the populist will most likely win just because he can't lose at
all and, in the end of the movie, something like that is hinted at but
it is never developed as a plot point, instead it's rapidly dismissed.
And I think that exploring this aspect would have been very interesting
at least because that's one of the main concerns about what to do with
populism nowadays.

Another issue I have with the whole point the movie is trying to convey
is that the main attack against the populist is that his racism and
antisemitism makes him an unreliable and dishonest historian. But the
irony of it all is that the first historian is portrayed as a Jew that
is highly emotionally involved on her work to the point that she can't
think rationally most of the time when trying to discuss the issues at
hand. In other words the main argument against the populist is also the
main argument against the supposed rational side. This is defeating for
the movie because the argument in the end is unconvincing and weak. If
the movie was trying to make an argument in favor of the truth I feel
that it weakened it instead. Granted it also can be seen as a very
realistic situation that happens all the time, in the end we are all
humans and emotional judgments are what we do best so maybe the movie
was trying to show us the flawed nature of what we understand as truth
and reason?? I'm not sure but it didn't seem so at least.

Finally another issue I have unrelated particularly to this actual
movie is the excessive focus on cinema towards the Holocaust, 2nd WW,
Hitler, etc. Granted it was a very traumatizing time and any sensible
person agrees that the Holocaust shouldn't have happened and that it
was a shameful moment in human history. But I can't help but feel that
the continuous outrage of Hollywood towards this tragedy is dishonest
at best. When will Hollywood make a movie about the suffering of the
Palestinians under the oppression of Israel which is a current tragedy
and a highly ironic one given that the Israelis are also in denial of
how their government is doing atrocious things. This makes me think
that Hollywood gets a phony sense of selective outrage at some
tragedies, mainly those that pay their salaries.
