
This was painful. Action? Yes, but we're talking Physics that Sharknado
would be ashamed of. Failure to understand or accept how reality works,
even at a basic level. If you know the basics of cars, computers or
physics, this will inflict pain to your brain.

No part of this movie made sense, it makes all 7 prequels seem like a
real life documentary about cars. By far - Worst of the series. By
going so far off the deep end, it made it too improbable for me to
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review on IMDb and I'm only writing this because so
many reviews are praising this movie! I knew it would be average but
within the first 10 minutes I realised how horrible this movie was.
From winning a race in reverse gear of a wrecked car to driving ahead
of an army without a single bullet hitting them. I know this series has
always had over the top action but this plain nonsense. As somebody
else said in their review the heists didn't need cars in the first
place. I only liked the action sequences between Dwayne and Jason, rest
were unwatchable! I feel bad for the people praising this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most stupid, senseless and ridiculous movies I have ever
watched. I wonder only why would Charlize Theron play in something like
that? Money must have been very tempting for an Oscar-winning actress
to even think about that this could become a good movie with no story,
no developing characters, not even a story but just lots of money
thrown on some... well I must admit - good special effects. But not
worth even a dime to pay for a ticket to watch it, not talking even
about the waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the previous movies of the franchise. They were decent action
flicks, exactly something you go to watch in a cinema with friends. But
this? This is beyond awful, it's worse than a parody. Every line is a
cliché, the acting is not even mediocre, the plot line is exactly like
something a 12 year old boy has come up with.

There's no way the 10 star reviews are NOT paid. This movie is an
insult to anyone who pays to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Be aware, plausible spoilers I do not know where to start. I thought
that I'm used to the cheesiness of the FF movies, but this
is......overwhelming. Its like they are making movies for people under
18 only. Whole movie is a load of random c***. Its so senseless,
cheesy, unbelievably unrealistic, cliché- ish.....total disaster. They
ruined good characters, like deck shaw. In ff7, he was terrifying
hit-man. Here, they turned him into a clown who is afraid of his
mother. Its ridiculous. Next, is it a bird, is it a plane? No,
its......Luke HOBBS!!! My Lord, he is the perfect example of everything
wrong in modern Hollywood. Awful acting, cringe lines, superhuman
strength (they literally took it to the superman level in ff8) Cipher-
theron is a brilliant actor in normal movies, but here they made her a
joke. I would compare it to the thurman's poison ivy from 1997. Tbh,
roman is the only lightspot. He really is funny, natural funny, not bad
humour like others. He is the reason why I made it to the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Quick, honest review here - saw the film last night, it premieres
tomorrow. Here's what I think:

Real Fans of the Furious franchise will absolutely love it, it
delivers! If you're a fan, you know exactly what to do going into this
feature, just sit back and enjoy the ride. It's a good one, enjoy! This
movie is so very clearly made for the fans.

If you're not a furious fan, maybe haven't seen the ones before, don't
watch this movie, go watch the other ones first and then see this
movie, you'll have a more enjoyable time. If you don't like the
previous films, you won't like this one.

P.S. - If you don't like this film because of the plot holes or bad
acting or cheesy moments, then you are watching it wrong! :-)

Have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
The eighth film in The Fast and the Furious franchise, "The Fate of the
Furious", might not be the best in the series, but I must say, it's
pretty damn good and just as fun and entertaining as I expected. The
franchise as a whole, for what it is, it offers great entertainment,
especially with its latest instalments.

The Fast & Furious family is back, but this time things will get
serious. Dom is going evil and betrays his friends and family to work
with Cipher (a.k.a. Charlize Theron), a cyberterrorist who is really
evil. And that's not enough to describe how wicked she is and all the
things she does.

The movie is full of twists and surprises, although it should be said
that these twists are not something none saw coming. They are quite
predictable. That's a problem with this franchise - and I believe every
franchise and movie that has mainly to do with car racing. Don't expect
much story wise.

However, it gives you what you want. It gives you action, fun, family
spirit, cars, racing, and Vin Diesel, the Rock and Jason Statham
kicking ass - Tyrese Gibson is also a scene stealer. It lives up to
what you've come to expect from FAF. Do you really want more?
<|_=00=_|>
<< Potential- Small Spoiler Alert!! >> If you put aside why in the
world would the Furious gang team up with the last bad guy from Furious
7. This movie is pretty awesome and very fun to watch! Very
entertaining and lots of action!! Roman is funny as always. Also,love
the fighting/rescue Baby scene at the end. Go see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
Fate of the Furious, the eight installment of the mindless, crazed up
action flick has proved itself that the franchise never ran out of gas.
There's over the top action scene, there's some mindless story, and
there's Vin Diesel talking about family over and over again. Those
things are what makes us coming back for more, and this is no
exception.

The story follows Dom Toretto who betrays his family to work for
Cipher, and his team's attempt to stop him. Vin Diesel has firmly
stated that this movie "may earn a Oscar for it's acting", Maybe he's
right because the acting is probably the best in the franchise. There
were times where I'm surprised by Vin Diesel's acting. I also had a
tear in my eye for no reason (damn those ninja cutting onions...)
Charlize Theron is amazing as someone who's a menacing foe that you
love to hate. The Rock, Jason Statham, Michelle Rodriguez, Ludicrous,
Tyrese, Kurt Russell, and Nathalie Emmanuel reprises their roles and
they did a good job as well, especially The Rock, Statham and Michelle
Rodriguez. Scott Eastwood and Helen Mirren are great and a welcome
addition to the franchise. There's also some surprise appearances and
they are great as well.

The story... you definitely need no explanation for this. As always:
it's stupid, in a good way of course. The story ties into Fast &
Furious 6, and Furious 7, so for newcomers to the franchise, you may
get confused a bit. The film also uses plot twists, which were greatly
executed. There were some well placed funny moments and there's also
some depressing moments as well. The movie also serves as the first in
the final trilogy of the franchise. How the story goes later, we'll
just wait for the ninth installment, which definitely will arrive soon
enough.

The action, needless to say, is as crazy as in Furious 7, or maybe
more. Taking insanity to the next level, these action scenes is either
get you pumped out for what happens next, or making you shake your head
for it's absurdity. Just don't relate to science or the law of physics,
because those things don't apply to this movie.

However, the movie somehow felt hollow. There's something that's
missing from the movie that prevents me from fully enjoying the movie.
The lack of Paul Walker in the movie probably causes this. Referencing
Brian and Mia in the movie ain't help either. Plot holes were present
in the movie as well. Someone dies in the movie, but their deaths don't
do justice (he/she died, he/she avenge his/her death, and that's it).
And there's some CGI noticeable throughout the movie (which is a
shame).

Regardless, Fate of the Furious is a movie with a stupid story,
ridiculous action sequences, and Vin Diesel talking about family, which
were bad, in a good way. Don't expect a really good story, or some
logical action scene, because you'll ended up disappointed by the end
of this movie. And for those "fans" who said: "Remember when it's all
about racing", face it, Fast & Furious ain't returning fully to it's
roots. If you don't like the change then you'll definitely don't like
this movie. For anyone else who like fast cars, mindless action fun,
get a ticket, have a seat and enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Furious Legacy Back with the Bang A.K.A #FateofTHeFurious. It was Big,
Loud & Fun with the heart breaking action sequences.. The action
sequences are big, loud, and insane. 

Movie filled with lots of action, car chases, violence, explosions,
shooting, guns, bombs, cars, army tanks, different types of vehicles,
motorbikes, jets, airplanes, snow, snowy whitey landscapes like
mountains and glaciers, sunshine, beaches, tall buildings like tall
skyscrapers, loyalty, family, friendship, betrayal, treachery,
arguments, falling outs, fights, punch ups, tongue and cheek stuff,
some comedy and funny moments, high tech stuff that is incredible,
plenty of on the edge of your seat stuff, prisons, prison guards in
black suits with shields, all types of people and nationalities, lots
of close shaves, near misses and many other things throughout the
film.. Every Character including Dwayne The Rock Johnson Vin Diesel
Jason Statham Michelle Rodriguez Tyrese Gibson Ludicrous Charlize
Theron Kurt Russell Nathalie Emmanuel Luke Evans & the new edition of a
family Scott Eastwood every did splendid role as expected.. 

Especially I've to highlight a complete scene when #Jason saved
#LittleDom that was just hilarious.. (Y) (y) Really but what i feel sad
about & really i did missed in a movie is Paul Walker movie is
incomplete without #BrianOConnor.. 

The movie is funny and serious and it found the balance and i just
loved everything about it and i enjoyed every second of it. Seven will
probably always be better thanks to Paul and his tribute,but this is
the second best movie in the series..(Y) (Y)
