
Because I really liked this movie. Its a drama...and it was slow to
unfold but the message was beautiful. It makes you sad, angry,
question...but in the end you learn that ALL those emotions are life
and love and I thought the performances portrayed that perfectly. I
think you either get that message or you don't. The acting was
phenomenal including some real surprise performances. Don't go in
expecting cheesy happy "Christmas miracle" endings. Don't expect a
block-buster big bang edge of your seat thriller....expect a beautiful
film that is taking a difficult topic(s) and turning it into a thing of
beauty.
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully portrayed movie about love, hope and life. These critics
are unbelievable and useless. These meta scores on IMDb are dumb and
useless. Its just 1 useless person doing the review job and he does not
represent the entire world audience. Ignore these critics. Movie is
emotionally brilliant and strong. A brilliant movie about life told in
a emotionally satisfying way. The film is so pleasant to watch which
portrays human emotions in a wonderful way. 

Will Smith has his own style and brilliance. His performance is just
too good. We can really feel the movie within us. Such a nicely made
movie. Don't miss it
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to keep this short since there are already so many other
great reviews here to read... to sum it up though, this is a Very well
put together film, with Many great elements, some of which are Very
unexpected. I usually HATE dramas, and am more of a fun action /
suspense / adventure kind of film guy... but every so often, a film
such as this comes out, and its one that someone can easily break their
usual style and enjoy.

Forget all the comments giving it one star and hating on this film...
they seem very short sighted in their perception, and are unable to see
how every moment in this movie had a point and purpose, while being
Very thought out. Perhaps some are mad at the film because they don't
want to admit it made them cry a ton, while still ending in a way to
feel warm about.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, it's obvious from the trailers-- this is a sad movie. 

But anyone who watched the trailers knows that. You know what you are
going into. It is very formulaic, but the acting is good. Even the
little parts are good. I would say if you watched and liked "The Fault
in Our Stars" this is a good movie for you. It focuses on interpersonal
relationships and the raw emotions that come with tragedy. If you are
looking to cry, but definitely feel something, this is the movie for
you.

I feel like a lot of the negative hype may come from expecting more
from the movie than was ever promised. Two of the main actors are known
as taking action movie roles. This movie was never marketed as an
action movie, though. It was advertised as a drama about a man who had
lost his child. That is exactly what it is. Sure there are some
unexpected turns, but at the end of the day, don't expect what was
never advertised to be there.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another occasion that I'm glad I didn't listen to the critics. This
film had everything in it for me and Will Smith once again showed what
a fantastic actor he truly is. It has a great cast of award nominees
(including Dame Helen Mirren) who make this film a real roller-coaster
of emotions. Each actor having their own unique part to play giving the
film great depth. This is my first ever review on IMDb and it's because
I enjoyed the film so much and I believe the critics got it so very
wrong on this occasion! I felt I had to stand behind the film and great
actors to prove this is not the underdog of films but can stand side by
side with many great films.
<|_=00=_|>
Every tragedy is accompanied by beauty. However, as we are steeped in
grief and sorrow, we tend to overlook the beauty that is caused by the
tragedy. The term "collateral" is often followed by the term "damage".
It is so familiar to keep an eye on the collateral damage of anything
we do. We don't tend to look for beauty. This movie is so deep, and it
is one of those type of movies that make you think! It illustrates the
three big why's that drives us; love, death, and time. These three
constructs are not absolute; they are not fixed and they don't
diminish. They are so sensitive to things, events, and people
surrounding us. They change forms, and accordingly change our lives. In
the midst of all the tragedies you face during your life, all the
bitterness, keep an eye on the collateral beauty.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie. It was very touching and sometimes
extremely hard to watch at times. I strongly recommend watching this
movie.

Pros: Acting was magnificent - especially Will Smith. He really
captivates the audience with this one. The story line was well thought
out and east to folly. Anyone could easily to relate to the
situations/characters. It also had a wonderful surprise ending.

Cons: A little on the long side I would have liked for them to have
gone deeper into the 3 abstract concepts.

You will enjoy this movie. I suggest you bring a tissue too. :-)
<|_=00=_|>
Theme is hard, but very well processed. Scenario and acting was
excellent. Movie can keep watcher's interest continuously from
beginning to the end. Sections are arranged perfectly, and you don't
only watch the movie only, also "feel deeply". Especially Will Smith
has perfect performance.
<|_=00=_|>
So I read somewhere that Collateral Beauty does not have what it takes 
to be a Christmas Classic. I'm not sure about that, you be surprise how 
many Christmas Classic don't have what it takes to be Christmas 
Classics. 

It took a While for It's a Wonderful Life to become an X-mas Classic

Smith plays a man who is shocked to the core with the lost of his 
daughter and can't do anything else, but in an attempt to wrap his head 
around it he starts writing letters to Time, Love, and Death and things 
get crazy when they respond to these letters.

I think we were all expecting something more form big Willie and he did 
not deliver. They can't all be magical ones, but we were expecting pure 
magic.

I got to admit though, this movie should have been magic not just 
because of the Fresh Prince. He lead a very stellar cast of fine as 
wine actors. With such power houses at Ed Norton, Kate Winslet and 
Helen Mirren leading the charge 

So it's not a bad movie at all, possibly not as good as the cast that's 
in it, you'd expect more but you never known sometime down the line 
this could be a new Christmas Classic. Let's see how many people stream 
it on Netflix.


<|_=00=_|>
We need a movie like this from time to time. It's written so well. I
wish I had read the book first. These movies help is to take a step off
the fast wheel and just take a moment to think. I think the movie
demonstrates a certain feeling that we all become quite numb in our
lives. Numb to other people's feelings, numb to our own needs and numb
to our pain and to the needs of others. It doesn't surprise me that
someone would write a dreadful review about this movie. I ask for what
motive? Movies are not for everyone. There are many movies that I don't
like but I don't feel compelled to scrutinise what was bad or wrong
about it. 

I have grown up with Will Smith and I have always loved his movies. I
think if you love Will Smith you'll just love this movie anyway. 

Love, Tine Death, three key things that connect us all. It's true. And
this movie has the ability to relate to anyone who is perceptive of
their circumstances, surroundings and open to possibilities and ideas. 

This movie is a wonderful journey, I never picked my phone up once, I
was intrigued and absorbed with this compelling tale of grief. Yes it
deals with grief yet it doesn't bring you down. 

A great cast! Simply perfection. The story is more than it seems and if
you connect with it you will make some links and realisations and
messages will reach out to you, mostly about the importance of trust
and human kindness. It's nice to believe in that, after a bad day when
you feel invisible to almost everyone. 

The composer surprised me, refreshing and really in touch with the
emotional narrative of this journey. 

Well done all round. Deserved winner of any award.
