
I entered to watch Storks expecting the worse. However, I got an really
enjoyable movie.

The Characters are charismatic and they have good chemistry. In Fact, I
LOVED Tulip and The Wolfs were hilarious.

If you want a funny and heart-warming film, then Storks is a great
option for you.

It's such a shame to see how uninterested was Warner in marketing this
film.

I Trust that in a few years Storks will have the recognition that it
deserves, and a big fan base.
<|_=00=_|>
I found STORKS in the way that you're supposed to find underrated/cult
classics: by accident. When it was released, I bought into the
collective sigh of underwhelm that most critics expressed and that was
my mistake. It's easy to understand why the critical community didn't
like it: in an era where Pixar, Disney and even Dreamworks keep
churning out magnificently multi-layered heart-warmers that set the bar
stratospherically high, STORKS doesn't register all that well. We've
been spoiled by excellence. As a result, we've lost the ability to
enjoy the simple pleasures of pure entertainment.

And that's what STORKS delivers better than babies or packages:
entertainment.

You might have noticed people commenting on how forced and thin the
storyline is and how uneven it feels, and those complaints are
accurate. The plot is extremely thin (virtually an extended
sitcom-sized premise stretched into an epic road-trip format), and the
story moves so quickly that it goes too far too fast with nary any
breathing room to savor the experience or give the characters the
tension or time to build any real catharsis or change. But the
characters are so authentic to themselves that you know just about
everything you need to know about them from their first scenes.

I think the main reason STORKS gets such middling reviews in print and
here on IMDb is because it's an old-fashioned type of comedy: a
screwball-slapstick hybrid. The emphasis on sight gags, pain-humor, and
wackiness has generally been avoided in animated films as passe and
vulgar--low comedy. The rapid-fire snark between the main characters of
Tulip and Junior hearken back to the old Howard Hawks workplace
comedies of the 1930s, which is definitely an acquired taste in the
post-narrative style of humor found in kids entertainment today--where
non-sequiturs and punchlines exist in a vacuum and visual comedy is
derived from abstraction rather than plasticity. But the comedic energy
and the variety of jokes from modern "Office"-style cringe (Pigeon
Toady) to the machine-gun-speed HIS GIRL FRIDAYy-style verbal sparring
(Tulip & Junior), absurdism (the wolves), post-modern meta-humor (the
boy and his parents) to classical WB slapstick of yesteryear, and the
film is riotously funny because of it. At the end of the day, that's
what STORKS wants to be: FUNNY.

STORKS is not a great film. It's not a masterpiece like TOY STORY or
UP. It won't win any Oscars and it won't be everyone's cup of tea. But
there's an excellent chance that it will live on as a
multi-generational favorite for the same reasons as
dumb-fun-with-a-heart-of-gold treasures like SPACEBALLS, DUMB & DUMBER,
THE NAKED GUN, and NATIONAL LAMPOONS CHRISTMASs VACATION:

Because you can watch it 1,000 times and it will NEVER stop being
funny.

So try it out. There's a 50-50 chance you'll be among the ones who
can't stop watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this movie in the earlier parts, I could not help to feel that
the funny scenes were a little bit forced, but as the movie continues,
the funny scenes becoming more and more fluid. The funny moments became
more natural. And since the baby girl was "produced", the movie became
much more alive. I think the star of the movie was really the baby. The
animation of this baby was soooo cute and adorable that you would
really want to hug and play with the baby.

You would also be enjoying the very colorful scenes and the funny
moments during the chase by the wolves. Those were some of the most
enjoyable moments. But the moment that I laughed the hardest was during
the scene involving penguins (and the fork). It was priceless!

I also loved that the trailer shown many times in the theaters was only
showing some brief introduction about Storks and baby making machine.
This helped us to be enjoying the movie without knowing there were so
many plots inside this one. For parents who want to bring their
children to watch this, I believe they would be able to enjoy it. For
teenagers & adults, this movie would also be enjoyable to watch.
However, please do not expect logic or the making sense of the story of
Storks delivering babies. If you can only enjoy movie when logic is
very much a great factor, then I do not think this movie is right for
you. If you are looking for some fun and good laughter, then you can
definitely watch this one!

By the way, this movie was produced by Warner Bros Animation Group
(WAG) which also produced The Lego Movie. Hence, it was not a surprise
to see there was a short funny animated Lego movie of a Chinese Kung Fu
Master and a chicken before the start of the movie. I guess WAG also
wanted to follow the success of such pattern used by Disney, Pixar and
even Illuminati (remember those cute minions in The Secret Life of Pets
?). It did give us a nice thing to enjoy before the start of the actual
movie. So when you already bought the tickets for this film, please
make sure you are not late to be able to watch this short fun movie.

please read my full review in michaelnontonmulu.blogspot.co.id
<|_=00=_|>
I admit that while it's not one of my favorite animated movies of the
year, it's still definitely something I would recommend. I admit that
it does start a bit slow. It really gets better when the character
Tulip is introduced. She is the heart of this movie and by far the most
entertaining part. Thank you for featuring her so much. Almost
everything she says is funny. I guess I just have a soft spot for genki
girls. Pinkie Pie is the one who comes to mind most at any time. She
even has red (pink?) hair like her. The best parts are probably her
interacting with her personas.

I admit that the story makes little sense. How exactly are babies
brought into this world now? We briefly get to see the process of how a
baby is made. I love how big and epic this movie gets. Yes, it's
technically short, but it still gives you everything you would want in
a good movie. They have a lot of great details and it leads up to an
exciting climax. As a huge fan of "The Lego Movie", you have to watch
the great short that precedes this. If only "Looney Tunes" did stuff
like that nowadays. It's great to see a good movie based on an original
concept too. ***
<|_=00=_|>
If you want a movie that is entertaining, funny, action-packed with
twists and turns throughout - then this movie is for you! The animation
quality is as good as any out there. 

The voice actors are sensational. Kelsey Grammar and Andy Samberg and
their back and forth bantering is totally brilliant and any of us
involved in business can understand the dynamic and completely
understand the humour.

It is one of those movies that you can watch again and again and never
get bored.

Kids love it and there is plenty of content to keep adults laughing.

This movie is a terrific and I can't understand how anyone could not
thoroughly enjoy this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Storks seemed like a good kids movie you would watch just to get out of
the house and go to the theater, but I found that storks is very boring
and fast paced. Many of the jokes fell flat and felt forced, speaking
of forced, the parents. The parents are absolutely terrible characters
and suddenly go from being responsible to downright stupid and
unrealistic. Many of the scenes are rushed and the characters actions
and dialogue left me confused. Over all, storks is a waste of time
movie to watch once and never again.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw it on a long flight, had never even heard of this movie before
despite us watching anime and cartoon regularly. What happened there
WB?? So I ended up seeing it more by coincidence - the same as many
other adults on the 5 hour flight. And the plane was full of laughter.
One of the most absurd and hilarious movies I've seen in a long time.
It is very fast paced, lots of word play and verbal humor, slightly
evil in touching all kinds of topics from career-nuts adults,
over-ambition and sacrificing it all, bullying, casual nastiness to
people. Delivered by a fast-talking, bright, very cheeky teen girl with
a big heart and a stork trying to keep up and sorting it all into his
very structure perspective on life. Go watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a delivery company run by storks. They
stopped delivering babies for many years, until one incompetent
employee broke the rules and created a baby for delivery.

There are many reasons to like "Storks". The animation is super cute,
and the story is very sweet. Most people would connect with babies,
making this film an easy success. The wolves are funny too. However the
broken heart has gone just one step too far as it gets too repetitive
and non functional like the other formation of the wolves. I also like
the literal downfall of the boss. Adults can relate to that too. It is
rare to see a film that can be enjoyed by all ages. I liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
Storks wasn't specifically on my watch list. I had seen ads here and
there, but it seemed to get overshadowed with the release of other
movies. When i got the chance to watch it on a flight, i took it.
Mostly because there was nothing else to watch. I ended up laughing out
loud a couple of times and being charmed by some of the characters. 

The movie was cute and a little awkward at times, and had a fun and not
too serious premise. The awkwardness is especially what drew me in.
This movie might not be for everyone, the comedy might be a bit too
obvious and cringy, and kids might not understand the humor at times. I
personally don't think those are bad things, since i enjoy that type of
humor. The voice acting was okay. I mean Andy Samberg was Andy Samberg
and Ty Burell was Ty Burell. I enjoy both actors very much, but it made
it hard for me to get into their characters. Stephen Kramer Glickman,
Kelsey Grammar and Danny Trejo were outstanding in their performance. 

Overall this movie was a fun ride, and took me by surprise. I got a
little lost in the storytelling sometimes, and wasn't sure what
'message' they were trying to convey. But overall it was enjoyable and
cute, and not every movie needs a 'message'. I'm not sure if every kid
will enjoy this movie, but i think adults who like awkward humor and
great animation (I forgot to mention that) will enjoy this movie. This
movie is definitely underrated and got drowned out by other (hyped)
animated movies that got released around the same time. 

7,5
<|_=00=_|>
Directed By: Nicholas Stoller and Doug Sweetland

Starring: Andy Samberg, Jennifer Anniston and Kelsey Grammar

Overall: With 'The Jungle Book', I believe this is one of the most
overrated movies of 2016. I think this movie is boring and stupid. I
wanted to like it but I just couldn't.

Good:

1. The animation is pretty good.

2. Two jokes in the whole movie made me laugh.

Bad:

1. I was falling asleep during this film. It was so boring and so
incredibly unfunny that it was impressive.

2. They just tried too hard to be funny.

3. The story was just stupid and the idea was just absurd.

4. All the characters were boring and dull and just uninteresting.

2/10
