
This is the best film I've seen so far this year. Even though the story
is widely known - complete with a recent first-rate documentary - this
film delivers a tale of understated, quiet, but powerful love. In the
process, the Lovings' eventual Supreme Court triumph seems almost
incidental. Yet when Mrs. Loving looks out her front porch after
hearing the final decision, you can almost touch her sense of pride in
knowing that she, her husband, and her kids are a family in the eyes of
the law for the first time.

No Oliver Stone drum-banging here. By resisting the temptation to
overdramatize the screenplay and allowing his two lead performers (both
excellent) to have moments of quiet and simplicity, director Jeff
Nichols has increased, not lessened, the story's power. For here was a
husband and wife in love who just wanted to be left alone to live their
lives. This bricklayer and this homemaker, one the provider, one the
keeper of the home fires, are simple people but exceptionally genuine.
Nothing in this movie is gussied up for the audience. And that makes
this film all the more compelling.

Assisted by lush cinematography and songs that are less familiar (and
thus more interesting) than most films set in this period, and aided by
being filmed largely in the town where it all happened, Loving has a
genuineness and unadorned truth that is rare to find in films today. I
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the chance to see this film at the Austin Film Festival, followed
by a QA with the writer/director Jeff Nichols. Having already been
familiar with this story from the made for television movie in 1996
starring Timothy Hutton and Lela Rochon as Richard and Mildred Loving.
Many would ask why now or why remake this film? Well many people are
simply unaware of this couple's story and their groundbreaking supreme
court case, because it's certainly not mentioned or taught in public
schools. So was the case for the writer/director, as mentioned he was
not aware of their story. He carefully followed the documentary and
archived records about them, while imagining what their conversations
and dialogue would have been like between them. I found the landscape
of the cinematography beautiful and breathtaking. The acting chemistry
between Ruth Negga and Joel Edgarton was so tender and sincere, as you
witness their love and vulnerabilities on screen, it makes you love the
Lovings. Ruth Negga really shines as the quiet young woman who becomes
the matriarch and leader of her family after watching the march on
Washington DC, she decides to write a letter to then Attorney General
Robert Kennedy. You see the transformation of two introverted people
during the civil rights era become activists for change in their own
way that is very powerful in this film. Historically many of the
biracial descendants of this country's slave owning founding fathers
never benefited from the wealth and privilege of the white ancestors.
That is part of what what made their case was so monumental, in that it
reversed segregationist slave laws that considered biracial children
mongrel bastards and prohibited the rights of marriage and inheritance
of interracial couples.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, I think the movie itself just doesn't work and isn't
overly interesting. I can appreciate a slow movie, as long as it builds
to something worthwhile. With Loving, it's slow and there's no
overarching momentum. There's no fluidity. It just inches along through
a collection of scenes. And these scenes end up being incredibly
repetitive. Not only do we see the characters doing a lot of the same
things they were doing before, but a lot of information is repeated
over and over. Scenes happen that give us no new information, or repeat
what we learned from an earlier scene. It's not just that some scenes
needed to be cut, the entire film needed to be restructured. As it
stands right now, there's no connective tissue making this a cohesive
film. It's just scene after scene. And yes, there is an endgame, but
it's glossed over and trivialized in the scheme of the entirety of the
movie. There was just nothing captivating about this movie, nothing
really reeling me in...
<|_=00=_|>
Loving Review

Jeff Nicolas newest film centres around the true story of Richard and
Mildred Richard, the couple that fought the supreme court to legalize
interracial marriage. On the surface this story seems interesting but
over done but the way Jeff Nicolas tells this story makes it incredibly
unique. Instead of focusing on the big story about Civil Rights Nicolas
focuses on the very personal story of Richard and Mildred. By bringing
the story down to a very personal scale Nicolas told the story in a far
more impacting and effective way. This movie isn't about a revolution
or a grand battle this is truly a movie about two people being in love.
The movie doesn't try to rant or preach it just tries to tell a human
story. Ruth Negga shone in this movie. She gave an honest, and
emotional performance that really made Mildred seem like a person
instead of just a character. Acting against her or more accurately with
her is Joel Egerton. The character of Richard is fall less emotional so
therefor Joel has less opportunities to show off, instead Joel utilized
the quiet moments with his character to give a strong performance.
Together the pair creates a believable, balanced relationship that
shows us they're in love instead of just telling us. The accents at
first are distracting and can be hard to understand but as the movie
continues the audience becomes more immersed in the world and it feels
natural. The major issue with the movie is its repetition. Due to the
nature of the story the movie hits similar points multiple times, by
condensing the events the movie could have been more efficient.The
movies greatest strength is it's characters. The characters never feel
like roles in a movie, instead they feel like actual people. The movie
shows us small yet very personal moments between the characters that
really make them come to life. From simple glances to quiet laughs you
really believe that these are humans with thoughts, feelings and
emotion. Tis makes the audience care much more about their story and
therefore become more invested in the movie. The soundtrack much like
the movie is quiet yet effective. It gives the film a very distinct
optimism to it. The camera work is gorgeous. It's ability to focus on
details then go to sweeping landscape shots is very impressive.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best film I've seen so far this year. Even though the story
is widely known - complete with a recent first-rate documentary - this
film delivers a tale of understated, quiet, but powerful love. In the
process, the Lovings' eventual Supreme Court triumph seems almost
incidental. Yet when Mrs. Loving looks out her front porch after
hearing the final decision, you can almost touch her sense of pride in
knowing that she, her husband, and her kids are a family in the eyes of
the law for the first time.

No Oliver Stone drum-banging here. By resisting the temptation to
overdramatize the screenplay and allowing his two lead performers (both
excellent) to have moments of quiet and simplicity, director Jeff
Nichols has increased, not lessened, the story's power. For here was a
husband and wife in love who just wanted to be left alone to live their
lives. This bricklayer and this homemaker, one the provider, one the
keeper of the home fires, are simple people but exceptionally genuine.
Nothing in this movie is gussied up for the audience. And that makes
this film all the more compelling.

Assisted by lush cinematography and songs that are less familiar (and
thus more interesting) than most films set in this period, and aided by
being filmed largely in the town where it all happened, Loving has a
genuineness and unadorned truth that is rare to find in films today. I
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Imagine you are sound asleep in bed
with your significant other. It's the middle of the night. Suddenly,
the sheriff and his deputies crash through your bedroom door with
pistols drawn and flashlights blinding you. You are both taken into
custody. For most of us, this would be a terrible nightmare. For
Mildred and Richard Loving, it was their reality in June of 1958. Their
crime was not drug-dealing, child pornography, or treason. Their crime
was marriage. Interracial marriage.

Writer/director Jeff Nichols (Mud, Take Shelter) proves again he has a
distinct feel and sensitivity for the southern way. There is nothing
showy about his style, and in fact, his storytelling is at its most
effective in the small, intimate moments  he goes quiet where other
filmmakers would go big. Rather than an overwrought political
statement, Nichols keeps the focus on two people just trying to live
their life together.

Joel Edgerton plays Richard Loving, a bricklayer and man of few words.
Ruth Negga plays Mildred, a quietly wise and observant woman. Both are
outstanding in delivering understated and sincere performances (expect
Oscar chatter for Ms. Negga). These are country folks caught up in
Virginia's Racial Integrity Act of 1924, though as Richard says, "we
aren't bothering anyone". The counterpoint comes from the local Sheriff
(an intimidating Martin Csokas) who claims to be enforcing "God's Law".

Nichols never strays far from the 2011 documentary The Loving Story
from Nancy Buirski, who is a producer on this film. When the
ACLU-assigned young (and green) lawyer Bernard Cohen (played with a
dose of goofiness by Nick Kroll) gets involved, we see how the case
hinges on public perception and changing social mores. Michael Shannon
appears as the Life Magazine photographer who shot the iconic images of
the couple at home  a spread that presented the Lovings not as an
interracial couple, but rather as simply a normal married couple
raising their kids.

In 1967, the Supreme Court decision in Loving v. Virginia, unanimously
held Virginia's "Racial Integrity Act of 1924" as unconstitutional,
putting an end to all miscegenation laws (interracial marriage was
still illegal in 15 states at the time). In keeping with the film's
direct approach, the Supreme Court case lacks any of the usual
courtroom theatrics and is capped with a quietly received phone call to
Mildred.

Beautiful camera work from cinematographer Adam Stone complements the
spot on setting, costumes and cars which capture the look and feel of
the era (over a 10 year period). Nichols forsakes the crowd-rallying
moments or even the police brutality of today's headlines, but that
doesn't mean there is any shortage of paranoia or constant concern. We
feel the strain through these genuine people as though we are there
with them. The simplicity of Richard and Mildred belies the complexity
of the issue, and is summed up through the words of Mildred, "He took
care of me."
<|_=00=_|>
This could have been a much more interesting film if: 1- we got more
backstory on how they met and if they considered the dangers and
difficulties of being an inter-racial couple 2- there were fewer
long"meaningful" pauses. I started to get impatient as another five
minutesof silent stares went by. 3 - the events were compressed so that
muchmore time was given to both the state and federal court proceedings
4- much more of the actual Supreme Court case was shown. The Lovings
didn't want to attend the court proceedings, but *I* did! I wanted to
hear the arguments on both sides and comments of the judges. I wanted
to get a glimpse into the thinking of the time. Surely all of this is
available. 

Nice scenery, good score, and for those of us who remember the '60s,
lots of shirtwaist dresses and plaid shirts. The two main characters
are excellent actors, especially the female lead. But overall, it's
very very slow going with almost no passionate arguments about the
heart of the matter: why miscegenation laws were on the books at all.
Can't really recommended it whole-heartedly.
<|_=00=_|>
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries most American states enacted
anti-miscegenation laws prohibiting interracial marriage; only a
handful, mostly in the north-east, never introduced any legislation of
this sort. During the early and mid-twentieth century attitudes began
to change, and the northern and western states began to repeal these
laws, especially after California's anti-miscegenation statute was
struck down as unconstitutional by that state's Supreme Court in 1948.
There was, however, one part of the country where attitudes did not
change. By 1967 there was a stark geographical divide. In every single
one of the former slave states of the Deep South, except Maryland,
interracial marriage was still illegal. In every other part of the
country it was lawful.

"Loving" tells the true story of Richard Mildred Loving, a couple from
Caroline County, Virginia. Because Richard was white and Mildred black,
they were forced to travel to Washington DC to get married, but in 1958
Virginia refused to recognise interracial marriages performed in other
states; indeed, state law made it a criminal offence for Virginia
residents to travel out of the state to enter into such a marriage.
Richard and Mildred were arrested and charged with breaking this law;
they were sentenced to a year in jail, but the judge agreed to suspend
the sentence if they would leave Virginia and not return for 25 years.
The Lovings moved to Washington, but did not like living in the city,
and grew nostalgic for a return to the Virginia countryside. With the
aid of the ACLU they petitioned the Virginia courts for a review of
their case and, when this was denied, took the matter all the way to
the US Supreme Court.

The Supreme Court's decision in Loving v. Virginia, which took place in
1967, finally invalidated America's surviving anti-miscegenation laws
and is regarded as a major milestone in the civil rights struggle. This
could have been an inspiring film about an inspiring story, so it is a
pity that the film as actually made is so dull. Part of the reason, I
think, is paradoxically that the film-makers were so keen to stick to
the historical truth. Although the sixties were a period of racial
tensions across America, particularly in the South, these tensions do
not appear to have affected Caroline County to any great extent, and
the Lovings appear to have experienced very little hostility or
bitterness from their neighbours.

Richard and Mildred are portrayed throughout as deeply in love with one
another. As played by Joel Edgerton, Richard comes across as a stolid,
good-natured man who rarely displays much emotion other than affection
for his wife. Mildred, as played by Ruth Negga, at first seems rather
passive, but later emerges as a stronger character; she, for example,
seems more determined than her husband to pursue their legal action.
Any differences between them, however, do not seem to have led to
serious tensions in their marriage, and they are never shown arguing
with one another.

Now I am not arguing that the film-makers should have invented
conflicts where none existed in reality for the sake of a good story;
too many films supposedly based on historical fact have done that sort
of thing for me to be happy with it. The film, however, seems
altogether devoid of any sources of tension, and it certainly would
have been possible for the film-makers to have found some. Given that
the film tells the story of a court case, I am surprised that no
attempt was made to turn it into a courtroom drama and that we see so
little of the actual court proceedings. We never even hear the
arguments which the State of Virginia put forward in order to justify
their position, the counter-arguments put forward by the Lovings'
lawyers or the reasons why the Supreme Court found in their favour.

Not only does the film lack tension, it is also overlong and moves too
slowly. Yes, it tells a worthy, uplifting feelgood story about the
triumph of reason over prejudice. It's just a pity that they tried so
hard to make it worthy that they forgot to make it interesting. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Loving' was outstanding. I know I review a lot of films that star a
person people I love, but this film was one of the best ones I saw this
year (Moonlight. GO SEE IT). I hesitated even writing that, thinking it
couldn't be true, but it was. I was emotionally vested, riveted and
compelled by it. Jeff Nichols' did a beautiful job directing this film
in its fantastic simplicity, allowing Ruth Negga and Joel Edgerton to
deliver stellar performances as Mildred & Richard Loving. Joel Edgerton
specifically stood out to me as I was a fan of his since King Arthur
with Clive Owen (love Clive to death, but it was bad) and I absolutely
love seeing him on film. He was remarkable as Richard Loving,
communicating so much with his eyes and body language, I think it was a
role that challenged him and I appreciate the impeccable job he did.
Equally talented, Ruth Negga was also outstanding as Mildred Loving.
She communicated so much just through her eyes! She is a very talented
young woman who will have one outstanding career ahead of her. Marton
Csokas and Michael Shannon make short but memorable appearances,
honesty though both men are superbly talented so it's a real treat to
have them pop up in smaller roles. Fun fact: Jeff Nichols directed
Michael Shannon in another film I really liked, "Take Shelter". 

This film is about two people in love, an understated but very deep
love which altered the very course of American history. 'Loving' begins
in the late 1950s, right when racial tension was at its highest, just
as the Civil Rights Movement was gaining momentum. Compounded by this
and social pressures from within their community, the Lovings were
forced to live in fear and even meet under cover of night. No one
should have to live like this, ever. Nichols did a wonderful job of
illustrating just how much this impacted their lives. How this couple,
who only wanted to have a family and be together in peace, lived in a
persistent state of paranoia fearing violence or worse just because
they loved each other. It really is beyond all comprehension, that a
black woman and a white male would be violating law simply being
married. That tune sounds very familiar doesn't it, when likened to
present day? All those lovely gay couples who can't hold hands just
because they are scared that you are unable to mind your own damn
business. Such a shame.

'Loving' is also about hope. The beautiful glory of hope and love. Even
despite everything, all the adversity and hardship there is always
hope. That was one thing I really took away from the film. When asked
how she is able to keep fighting, Mildred Loving, played by the
wonderful Ruth Negga, says: Well, you loose the small battles to win
the big war." This film is also about freedom, liberty and rights. This
is the land of the free after all, but only free if you're not black,
or gay, or anything not considered the status quo. The Lovings fought
for years tooth and nail for the right to be able to love each other
and raise a family the poignant part of this film to me is the
ridiculous fact that they had to endure years of crap for something
they should've had all along. 

Overall the film was just wonderful, I was moved and felt it in a very
real way. The story is palpable from many perspectives which I think
was a pretty challenging feat for Nichols accomplish, but he did so
with efficacy. The narrative is clear: Love is love, live and let live.
I say go see it, fall in love and carry it with you.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm very conflicted on how I feel about this. On one hand, I very much
appreciated just how restrained and quiet this film turned out to be.
It could have easily turned into a completely sentimental,
over-saturated melodrama in the vein of The Help and it didn't.
However, I also feel like it could have been more effective than it
was. It also very much felt like Nichols was kind of on stand-by. I'm
not sure if it was the mix of the period drama subject matter with
someone like him as a director that made it feel a lot quieter than
most films of this type, but I wanted to feel more than I did, I wanted
more passion out of it. It's still a solid film and I'll see how it
fares in my mind with time, but for now I say it was somewhat of a
disappointment. I do think quieter films like this fare better with me
the more I think about it, so I'm hopeful I'll like it a little more
later on. Both Edgerton and Negga were really lovely, but I really
don't see them getting nominated for an Oscar. I just think if a film
is like this, the AMPAS will want something "bigger", both by the film
and its actors and I just think in general everything here is way too
subdued for them. It was great seeing Negga in a role so unlike her
other one in Preacher and I can't wait to see more of her.
