
Went to watch Lights Out last night at PVR. Lights Out proliferates
scares, shocks and screams, with an entire audience squealing and
squirming in their seats, screaming out loud, talking back to the
screen at several sequences. Cinematography, script and direction are
equally fine. The VFX added up to bring a lot more reality on screen.
Right from the first scene to the very end little Gabriel Bateman
steals the limelight and our hearts with his endearing acting. Teresa
Palmer is absolutely great, no glamour or make-up, just top- notch
acting; she is completely immersed in her role and her performance in
Lights Out will take you on a scary ride. 

Overall the movie was shot well with great background sound effects
that managed to spook audiences. The rest of the cast have done
complete justice to their roles. Those who stay alone in secluded
places and try to sleep without light after watching this movie I don't
know how do they overcome their fear of staying at home alone at night
or sleeping alone without light !

My verdict here: 10/10

Lights Out was without a doubt one of the best horror movies I've seen
in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
I personally think this movie is one of the greatest horror movies
ever! Teresa Palmer and Gabriel Bateman's acting is very good,
absolutely credible, almost like Rosa Byrne's performance in Insidious,
which was flawless. The cinematography was good, dark scenes pretty
clear, intense sound effects well achieved.

If you go to the cinema with your childhood fears, you will really
enjoy this movie. It's full of scares and if you put attention to them,
they are the kind of scares that you really fear when you are a kid.

I don't understand why people cannot leave their critics-attitude at
home and simply enjoy this movie or any other movie. If they do it,
you'll enjoy it a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
Lights out really is a great modern horror film. It offers great
thrills and also offers wonderful acting. Every actor did their job
beautifully and the characters they portray are well constructed, they
are not just surface level, cardboard cut out characters. The visuals
are good, the darkness and the creepy eeriness effect of a lot of
scenes work very well. There are some scenes that may even be somewhat
hard to watch because of the utter creepiness. Diana and the visuals
that make her up are done very well and the horror is real here, it's
not cheap or cheesily boring. The opening of the film is also very
effective in its attempt to be truly scary. This movie isn't very gory
or overly grotesque either, it has a minimal amount of blood/gore, and
some violent images, but not a whole whole lot, which it good and a
wise decision by the filmmakers, because if a scary movie is too gory
or overly disturbing, then it can be distracting from the plot. You
want people focused on the plot of the movie and on what's going on,
not on the ridiculous amount of gore. Lights out receives an 8/10 on my
scale.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will get your pulse up fast, revealing the "horror" very
early on. Interestingly enough, it keeps that pulse up throughout the
movie despite of this. The concept of something that can only appear
and be seen if it's dark (and with a somewhat supernatural ability to
destroy light bulbs) is bound to lead to a jump scare or ten whenever
it appears. Towards the end you've almost gotten so used to it that the
scare effect wears off a bit, and is one of two reason I don't rank
this a 10. But thanks to a good story and good actors, the movie still
holds its ground to the very end.

The characters are really good, well written and performed, and with a
young boy that if not before, totally kick started his future acting
career with this movie. Who doesn't love a young prodigy? The plot has
some weight and emotion to it, and with a solid ending that wraps
things up in a much more satisfying way than most similar movies.

The other small drawback with this movie for me was mostly because of
slightly unrealistic behavior from our main characters, occasionally.
Like when miss heels from Jurrasic World is worried that when she
releases T-Rex it won't be able to follow her if she runs. So, she
waits for it to come close, walks for a bit, then runs. Those kinds of
unrealistic behaviors. But I've seen much worse, and this movie doesn't
take the "unrealistic" very far, or often, so I suggest you just put
this on and roll with it!

All in all you get everything you want from a jump scare movie with
Lights Out, with a good plot and good actors that deliver, and a scare
factor we all can relate to. You might not be so happy with turning of
your lights going to bed later that night, so if you have a weak
stomach you might wanna sit this one out.
<|_=00=_|>
Lights Out takes some queues from Japanese-styled ghost stories, so it
will be attractive to that audience. It has a strong chill-factor but a
somewhat average formula, and it could have used fewer back-story
explanations to make it more mysterious, especially since those
elements did not feel original. 

Based on chill factor alone, it ranks higher than Dark Water, The
Forest, Paranormal Activity, The Others, The Babadook, and The Boy, and
lower than The Ring, Ju-On / The Grudge, and other Japanese-styled
ghost stories, as well as any horror James Wan himself directs.
Comparing it to masterpieces like The Exorcist and Poltergeist has no
value. 

I would say its chills rank somewhat evenly with The Woman in Black and
It Follows, without being as original as the latter.

The ghost itself is creepy enough, but the overall movie didn't have
the creative twists that we enjoyed from movies like The Boy, The
Others, The Sixth Sense, and 10 Cloverfield Lane. It also didn't have
the storytelling chemistry of James Wan's own Insideous or The
Conjuring movies.

I am a fairly difficult person to frighten. I have been seeing horror
movies at the theater since the 70's, and I am usually only interested
in the ones that have a supernatural or fantastical element to them. So
I am very critical of them, and the only ones I collect on disc are
either fun (Tremors), scary (the Grudge), or both (An American Werewolf
in London). I will collect this one.

Ghost stories are done to death. It is very difficult to come out with
anything scary that is original. I think Lights Out could have used the
guided hand of a third-party master horror writer, mostly revising the
back-story revelations and using the character relationships to build
suspense and mystery surrounding what is going on. Then, perhaps
working up to a punch line at the end so that suddenly the back- story
rushes in on the audience in one moment, with one simple revelation. It
is very difficult to think of how that can be done, but other movies
have done it, and the payoff is huge. 

I think Lights Out tried to do that a little but got confusing in the
attempt. 

But all-in-all it's a nice little scary movie with a smaller production
value but a satisfying ghost.
<|_=00=_|>
Lights Out, is quite possibly one of the most visually and mentally
scary films in the last two years. The film is yet another in a string
of horror movies that uses diseases as allegories for its premise, and
this premise alone is genius. Lights Out is often unnerving and
sometimes terrifying, dark in look and tone, without feeling recycled
or derivative. The biggest strength of the film is that the story is
constructed in a way that the audience is always wondering if something
will happen.

The most genius element of the film is the look of the creature that
haunts this movie "Diana." Diana is an all-black figure that lurks in
the dark, and kills whoever threatens it. That being said throughout
this film the audience has to fear that this character could pop out of
any dark space at any given time. At 81 minutes, not a single second is
calm or peaceful, because the mere sight of sight of this creature is
unnerving. However, the writers and crew deserve credit for conceiving
the idea of the film having a lot of darkness in it.

We often say lighting is a storytelling device, but in today's films
it's become less true the more formulaic films get. In this film
lighting is very much a storytelling device, and it is used perfectly.
Every scene in this film contains, just the right amount of darkness
and light, almost as if there are safe areas, and areas that characters
should stay away from, and they're often changing. The dark look and
tone of this film, create a very unnerving atmosphere, because one of
the most common fears is a fear of the dark, and more notably a fear of
the unknown, which exists in the dark.

The film really hit a note with me personally, because I have had
nightmares in the past about all dark figures living in the dark, so
the film felt that much more personal to me. That being said, the film
really doesn't feel all that derivative of other recent horror films. A
few moments, and scenes did feel familiar (Diana as a child), but those
were few and far between. Even those moments that are a little
familiar, are constructed in a way that they are still very scary. 

The film does what The Babadook did a couple of years ago, and uses
depression as an allegory for the creature in the film, which is
turning into a very cool concept. The film is one of the few films
within the system that uses lighting to tell the story, and does so in
a way that is clever and terrifying at the same time. The film is
admittedly dark, and relatively humorless, and not really for children,
but that kinda goes without saying. For those horror buffs looking for
a good scary movie, this may be your movie.
<|_=00=_|>
***SPOILERS*** Lights out is one of those movie concepts that sounds
really interesting on paper, but falls flat on its face and breaks its
nose as soon as it starts moving.

It's a jump-scare filled slug that fails to impress, featuring a boring
cast with no real personality, illogical decisions to try and make you
jump, and a monster that doesn't even follow her own rules.

The massive problem is the star of the movie itself: Diana. She's an
evil woman that follows the mother of two kids, and relies on the
mother suffering to survive her self. The problem with Diana is that
she breaks her own rules all the bloody time. 

One moment she needs people to open the doors for herself, the next
she's teleporting around like she's a god. In the next moment she might
disappear when you flash a light at her, or she might decide to stand
there and burn while screaming her lungs out.

Diana herself doesn't seem to have any real goal other than being a
jerk. She needs the mother to be depressed or she disappears
*supposedly* but then decides to hunt her kids when they're trying to
avoid her, which in theory she should be grateful for.

Diana is also about as subtle as a Train wreck. Whenever she appears
the music blats your ears in an attempt to scare you, but when you
close your ears *since it's always easy to predict where she will be*
and just look at the scene, you realize Diana is about as scary as
Mickey Mouse with fangs.

Characters also do the stupidest of things, like walking TOWARDS where
they know Diana might be, instead of staying in a lit area where
they're safe. And the excuse "they don't know better" is not valid,
since the entire family knows Diana is real, and has multiple scars and
wounds to show from it.

In conclusion, Lights out is a poorly thought out movie that would have
been better off staying as a short film. The only real good thing about
the movie is that none of the "living" characters are inhumanly
bastards. Don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what horror films should be like - focused on the scares, has
really effective jump scares, even a few humor thrown in, and a not
complicated story line that is very easy to follow.

This is very much a very "popcorn horror movie" where it delivers the
right scares & thrills. Maybe it was a little too short, but that's
okay compared to long horror movies that don't really work.

I found myself jumping/shouting/screaming a couple of times watching
this in the movie theater and I assure you it was not because I just
wanted to do it or due to the influence of peer pressure of everyone in
the theater also jumping. And it has also impact beyond that, because
you'd be thinking about this movie when you get home and you have to
turn off the lights.

It's a very entertaining horror film and in my opinion, what horror
films should be like (especially PG-13 horror films). "PG-13 horror
films" can indeed be very effective in the right circumstances. Those
people who are saying this is "only scary" because of the "jump scares"
don't understand effective jump scares when they see them.

So bring your friends along with you and watch this in the cinema and
you'll be surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is great. It immediately engages and then keeps the
audience's attention. The story is compact, the acting strong and
ending plausible. Perhaps the strongest performance is that of Marie
Bello, who plays an emotionally disturbed woman. However, all of the
performances are outstanding. The movie succeeds in creating a mood of
foreboding as all are engaged in a fight for survival against an
unknown malevolent force. The movie avoids the pitfall of becoming just
another scary movie with contrivances that inspire laughter. Instead,
it succeeds in telling a story and building the tension to its
inevitable climax. That is the hallmark of excellent story telling and
why this movie is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw a screening of it. If you like horror I'd say go see it. It is
a jump scare movie but there's some depth and story to it. Character
development was great, actually get to care about them and want to see
them make it out. Acting was pretty good. F/X were good. The only part
that I didn't like was they did the explanation of the backstory by one
character explaining it to another. I always hate when they do that,
just seems lazy.

The audience really got into it with a lot of people jumping and then a
lot of giggles at themselves and others for jumping. Oh and in our
screening the comedic relief of the big guy down front yelling "oh
s**t" every time Diana jumps out. It reminded me of when I was a young
teen and we'd get a whole group to go see the newest horror
(F13,Halloween etc)You can't take it too seriously, just sit back and
enjoy it.

Overall I'd give it a 8/10 which is pretty good for a horror flick.
