
OK, well, this is going to be a tricky review, folks, because this is a
weird movie, very weird. A Cure For Wellness has the great merit of
being different, and to reward the movie goer with something that
stands out from the crowd; but, once you have appreciated this aspect,
you might also want to be rewarded with a kind of content that gives
the form some substance. And here is where A Cure For Wellness lets you
down. I thought the first part of the movie was very good (rating: 8):
you are simply smashed by the oneiric, hypnotic power of the images, by
the stunning photography, by a breathtaking use of the camera, pretty
good acting; and the intrigue created by the plot is such that you just
keep asking yourself where this can reasonably go. That should have
been the job of the second part (rating: 2) , where instead most of the
potential built in the first half is wasted: the story, from
intriguing, turns silly; the mysterious plot turns into a surreal
Dracula movie which just does not make justice to itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Gore Verbinski, the man who gave us the first "Ring" movie, the
"Pirates of the Caribbean" franchise, "Rango," and "The Lone Ranger" is
now back with this Hitchcockian Gothic psychological thriller designed
to keep you guessing till the very end. Even though its final 20
minutes somewhat go off the rails a bit, overall A CURE FOR WELLNESS is
stunning, bold and hypnotic.

Dane DeHaan plays an ambitious young executive, Lockhart, sent to
retrieve his company's missing CEO who's decided to stay at a remote
wellness center in the Swiss Alps. What is supposed to be an easy
assignment turns into a journey of slowly but surely uncovering the
center's dark past, uncovering the real reasons as to why the guests
keep staying there, longing for the cure, as Lockhart himself starts to
question his own sanity.

You will fall in love with the cinematography by DP Bojan Bazelli. Even
if you're not a fan of mystery or suspense, Bazelli's cinematography
for "A Cure For Wellness' will leave you floored, the word breathtaking
doesn't even begin to fairly describe it. There are shots through the
tunnel, around the castle, and even during some of the film's most
disturbing moments, they draw you in, gorgeous in every possible way.
And the fact that they actually filmed a big chunk on location at
Castle Hohenzollern in Germany does help because the place becomes a
supporting role.

Ever since "Chronicle," Dane DeHaan has been an actor that's caught my
attention because I do believe that this rising star has what it takes
to be great, A CURE FOR WELLNESS allows him to showcase a tease of that
potential. His performance reminds me of Leo DiCaprio's in "Shutter
Island" and Jack Nicholson's in "The Shining" where to a certain
extent, you're not certain if they'd eventually cross that line or
remain on this side of the fence. A CURE FOR WELLNESS is trippy, it's
intriguing, it's filled with all kinds of odd imagery, it's definitely
not for the faint of heart. It's a sensory experience type of a film,
the kind that also evokes all sorts of questions about society and what
it means to live well and the ambition for purity. But again, as I said
earlier, the final 20 minutes do go off the rails a bit, by that time
the film feels like it runs longer than it should and furthermore it
gets ruined by its desire to leave us on a happy note. A CURE FOR
WELLNESS will find its audience, but it's an acquired taste.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about this odd movie, other than that I was absolutely
captivated for the first hour or so. Visually stunning, images that
will live in the memory for some time, great editing, superb camera
work, stunning scenery and background, and a plot that captivates and
keeps you guessing.

But what a letdown the ending was! It was like the director chickened
out, and went for the boy-gets-girl, American apple pie conclusion,
instead of creating a Gothic masterpiece. I would have sooner left some
of the plot threads unresolved than to have inflicted on me such a
silly and B-grade alternative, that ultimately left a bad taste in my
mouth. If that sounds harsh, it is only because the rest of the movie
was so mind-blowingly stunning, at least an 8 or 9.

One reviewer called anyone who didn't like this movie a moron. We can
do without patronising opinions like that. I'm not a moron, just
disappointed. Go and see the movie? Yes. The visual elements are worth
it. Will you experience the catharsis of a great movie experience
afterwards? I doubt it.
<|_=00=_|>
Visually, this film is a masterpiece and the shots are breathtaking.
The castle where most of the movie takes place is a great setting, it's
a real place in Germany called Castle Hohenzollern. Every shot is a
piece of art, framed and filmed with the utmost respect for the craft.

The story is an interesting one, you'll be thinking to yourself for
most of the movie, what is the cure for wellness? They do give an
answer to it later in the movie. The plot has a man working for a big
finance company out to retrieve the CEO of the company from a wellness
center in the Swiss Alps. Along the way, he meets some interesting
characters and tries to figure out what exactly they're trying to cure
up there on the mountain.

The only thing I thought the film could have done better was with the
twist, it could be seen from a mile away if you were watching the
previous part of the movie with even a little bit of concentrated
focus.

My suggestion: See it! this film is the reason people go to the movies,
to be entertained to the extent of leaving a lasting impression.
<|_=00=_|>
Opening up the week after John Wick 2 and 50 shades 2 and the same week
as The Great Wall, does not bode well for the R rated box office of one
of the most cryptic, deranged, and disturbing films ever made. You will
hate this one or love it, not likely to get many in between votes.
There are images in this film that I will never get out of my head. I
am smarter than your average bear but I really have to see the film
again to figure a lot of it out. And though I gave it an 8, I am not
sure it is something I want to subject myself to again.

I really enjoyed Dane De Haan's performance. I was not familiar with
him before this film. Jason Isaac is solid and Mia Goth is a
fascinating actress that I had also not seen before. 

Where do I start? The running theme of eels? The numerous Octagenarian
nude scenes? The torture scenes? The cryptic mystery of the Spa? Yes, I
think I will start there. We join the De Haan character at Dr. Volmer's
Swiss spa as he spends a great amount of the film on squeaky crutches
wandering the estate and trying to figure out what the heck is going
on. Needless to say, he sees and is subjected to a lot of dark and
twisted stuff.

Verbinski does a wonderful job at the helm. Everyone has been comparing
this to Shutter Island, in pre release, but I was more reminded of Eyes
Wide Shut in terms of mysterious atmosphere.

When I review a film, I find it difficult to walk the fine line between
discussing it and revealing spoilers, so I will not say a whole lot
more about this odd film. I do have one final thing to say. I am very
liberal about allowing young people to see films but moms and dads
trust me on this one. Do not allow pre teens to experience this film.
There was a 5 year old at my screening tonight. I told the mom, "Have
fun the next 15 years dealing with how this film affected your son. You
should be ashamed." She told me to go to hell. But seriously parents
heed my advice it will save you tons on therapy, bail, and/or rehab.
<|_=00=_|>
(I saw a preview screening of this.)

Director Gore Verbinski is best known for the Pirates of the Caribbean
trilogy, and also Rango, The Ring, and The Mexican, so "quietly
understated" is not really his thing, If the Pirates movies are kind of
a throwback to old Hollywood swashbucklers, this is a more lurid
version of old Gothic suspense thrillers like "Rebecca" or "The Island
of Doctor Moreau."

The main character is Lockhart (Dane DeHaan), who is the exact sort of
morally bankrupt young financial hotshot you've seen in a bunch of
other movies. His bosses are so cartoonishly evil that they may as well
be counting wads of cash as they tell him he's being sent off to Europe
to fetch a wayward executive whose signature is needed to allow a
merger to go forth so as to allow them to rake in more millions.
(Oddly, a similar plot undergirds the otherwise-completely different
Will Smith vehicle "Collateral Beauty.")

Most of the rest of the movie takes place in a Swiss Alps sanitarium
where practically everything looks like it's from some time in the
first half of the last century. I half expected John Harvey Kellogg to
show up, but instead we get Volmer (Jason Isaacs), the place's
director. As with the patients and the staff, there's something not
quite right about the overly affable man, and the impatient Lockhart
has plenty of time to figure it out after an accident delays his trip
back to New York.

Exactly what's going on, and why no one ever seems to leave the place,
takes quite a while (almost 2.5 hours) to unspool, but Verbinski
successfully distracts the viewer with visually arresting images of
hallways, of peacefully exercising old people, of slithery fish, of
living and maybe dead bodies in all shapes and sizes (but mostly white
and old), and so on. A teen girl (aptly named Mia Goth), the only young
person besides Lockhart, may hold some clues. Rather than a lush
island, the sanitarium is high on a mountain, but the effect is the
same, as if the viewer has been transported to a world apart.

Does this all sound good? Then you'll probably like this very dark
fable. The deep mystery of why the place is so strange is possibly
layered with too much complication. I think everything fits together
pretty well, but I'm not positive. I am positive that this is
definitely going to be a lot different than anything else in the
multiplex whenever you might choose to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really excited about this movie when the trailer came out, I
could not wait to see it. But after reading multiple bad comments about
the film, I got worried.

But I must say, nothing to worry about. The movie is kinda weird maybe,
but if you watch the trailer you know what you're settling in for, I
suppose. 

The story develops itself kinda slow, but that didn't bother me cause I
was intrigued by the story. The movie has good actors, a great setting
and atmosphere. 

It kinda reminded me of Shutter Island, I think because of the whole
"mystery island with a weird cure-institution"-thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Gore Verbinski has created a visually splendid thriller/horror film,
which creates a wonderfully foreboding atmosphere. However, what could
have been a great film is marred by a convoluted screenplay that falls
to pieces in its final act, and is riddled with plot holes. I waited
patiently for all the pieces of the puzzle to fall into place (and with
the running time approaching 2 and a half hours, it's quite a wait),
yet ultimately I was left somewhat confused and underwhelmed by how it
all played out. 

I still recommend it for the wonderful cinematography and chilling
atmosphere. But with some liberal editing and a tighter screenplay we
could have had a real classic on our hands. Shame.
<|_=00=_|>
This film feels like a Black Mirror episode - but one that treads water
for almost two and a half hours without ever reaching its main idea.
250% longer, but only a fraction of the satisfaction. 

I really wanted to immerse myself in its atmosphere and ideas, the idea
of a David Lynch/Cronenberg style Shining/Shutter Island film seems
great. But the film really tests your patience. The main character is
icy and unlikable, the other characters are similarly distant. Stuff
happens, a lot of stuff, some of it great looking, but with nothing to
tie it together or the any character depth to engage with, it ends up
feeling like you're being taken through a film students visual
exhibition that doesn't end soon enough. 

It really doesn't live up to the amazing film that the trailer
suggests, a pattern that seems to be more and more common with films
these days. Similar to Passengers, I wonder if moments were shot just
to make the trailer more powerful in selling the film.
<|_=00=_|>
As an avid movie goer, and occasional reviewer, I am one (like most) to
naturally flock to the reviews of Rotten Tomatoes, Metacritic, and the
user flooded IMDb... Verbinksi's A Cure For Wellness strikes all
categories on what a suspenseful "thriller" should be. I myself watch
countless thrillers, as they along with horrors, are my favorite genre.
Upon seeing the reviews for A Cure for Wellness, I was both
disappointed and worried... I had expected a much more positive
response, with not only a solid cast headlined by he greatly under-
appreciated Dane DeHaan, but also a suspenseful and artistic director,
in Gore Verbinksi. With that being said, this movie was phenomenal.

To actually describe this movie in a flurry of words, my choice would
be; eerie, suspenseful, captivating, and gorgeous. The movie itself
takes place in the Swiss Alps, at a mental institution "devoted to
making you well again", and the colors, and abilities to exploit the
sound effects, score, and draw you in with rather sexual and
ostentatious visuals, along with gory and disturbing ones is exquisite.
DeHaan's role as Lockhart, is in my opinion, one of his best works
aside from Chronicle. I personally believe he is undermined especially
after a rather catastrophic blow from his depiction of Green Goblin in
Spider-Man.

All in all, I would give this movie an 8.7/10, being that I was drawn
in, and fell in love with both the visual appeals and the stunning work
on color and sound, but also the fact that both DeHaan and Isaacs made
me feel as if I was a patient searching for a cure... This movie
satisfied my lofty expectations, and I felt not only like my demands
were met, but even exceeded. Gorgeous work and a very enjoyable movie.
(AGE: 17+ for nudity/violence/language/grotesque scenes)
