
I have seriously, never in my entire life, seen something on screen
that was this painful to watch (including Jackass and Klovn). 

Poorly written, poorly executed, unenthusiastic acting from otherwise
talented people. Just awful. I feel hurt and betrayed. I want my money
back. And my time (finally out of the house, with my fiancé. Great
date. NAHT.) From the outrageously racist jokes, the fat jokes, the
stereotypical comic reliefs, the utterly pointless scenes and
unbelievably unrealistic characters - Just the worst. 

I expected a pointless, turn-off-your-brain low quality romcom but
never did I imagine it being SO BAD. To a few of my favorites acting in
this film: Please - PLEASE - have more ambition in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
don't get me wrong, i GET the movie is supposed to be a light, popcorn
movie..your average clichéd chickflick...and i love them....somedays
you just want a silly corny cheesy movie to put a smile on your face...

the problems is that it fails at even that...it is not a romantic
comedy...it does not explore the parents-kid relationship beyond the
whole "oh im a man i cant say tampon" cliché...it is not about
friendship....i mean what was the point of even making this movie...

i love interconnected romcom movies...but this is just ..pointless...i
have no other words to describe it..

and the only thing that was more horrible than julia roberts wig was
the direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved it. My husband and I thoroughly laughed until my stomach hurt.
This movie is very funny and has lots of funny tag lines to laugh about
later. I don't get the rude reviews and the harsh comments. I thought
it was very well done and a different twist. If you are super critical
and everything offends you easily, this isn't the movie for you. But if
you like a good clean movie that isn't filled with naked sex starved
scenes you will enjoy it. It is nice sometimes not to get cussed out
and see every body part on a person. Just good clean fun is enjoyable
too. It has many judgmental aspects, but it's a comedy, get over
yourself. People make things too deep. The critics are just that, too
critical. They rip movies apart so much it's hard to please them.

This movie is funny and as a mother (sister and child), I loved it. My
mother would have enjoyed it too. I will be recommending it to whomever
wants a unique take on a movie. I thought it was going to be sappy and
it wasn't. I laughed repeatedly, my husband did too and so did the
entire theater. My sister and I went on a double date, loved by us all.
Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Very, very disappointed with this movie. There is no real-life link or
lessons or messages that have been sent through or even tried to be
sent through. The story lines are all over the place, there is no real
development on the story lines and they are extremely short. Characters
are also not developed at all. The only character that was a little
deeper was that Jen, the others had no time to be developed. 

Great cast but some mediocre acting. Jen and Kate I found to be good,
the others not so impressive. Very, very disappointed in Jack though.
What was wrong with him. His acting was so bad. I was excited to see
him in this movie because usually I am a fan of his but in this movie
he was so bad. The only scenes that he did well were those on the stage
since he has real life experiences on comedy life acts and I think he
felt more comfortable. But that is not acting at all if you can only do
things that are real in your real life. It is the opposite actually. In
any other scenes when actual acting was required he just wasn't good at
all. 

I guess the only good thing about this movie despite having a famous
cast is that it is warm since it revolves around motherhood.
<|_=00=_|>
The Plot

This disaster follows the lives of different mothers on Mother's Day. 

Sandy (Aniston) is happily divorced, until she finds out her ex-
husband eloped with a much younger woman. 

Now she must learn to deal with big changes in her life as her two boys
now have a step-mom. Sisters Jesse (Hudson) and Gabi (Chalke) get an
unexpected surprise from their mother, who is not happy to find out
Gabi is a lesbian and Jesse is married to a man of color. Miranda
(Roberts) doesn't have any kids and is focusing on her career. 

Kristin (Robertson) is enjoying life as a new mother but is feeling
pressure from her boyfriend to get married. Bradley (Sudeikis) is
trying hard to be the best parent for his two girls since their mom
passed away last year, however his idea of Mothers Day is pretending it
doesn't exist at all.

I really like Garry Marshall and he's be involved in a many good movies
and TV shows. Sadly this is not one of them.

The movie is a series of absurd pandering offensive politically correct
vignettes. The only group missing was the Asians. There's gays,
lesbians, wheelchair blacks, Indians, you name it. OMG! It's absolutely
idiotic.

There is really no story line. And for some reason there are several
scenes in a comedy club that relate to nothing in the movie! It's
really sad that this movie represents the end to Marshalls comedy
legacy. He died soon after this was released. Maybe he saw it and
realized what a piece o9f garbage this movie was. It sucks. I'd give it
a zero if I could.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm really disappointed with this movie. Scenario had only couple funny
sentences, and that's it, and I assume this should be a comedy. If you
expecting romantic movie you will be disappointed, because the only
thing we see there is some people with some inessential problems, and
making big thing out of it. Slow development of story, although is
unpredictable because you can't expect that someone will devote such
attention on not important details. The only bright thing in this movie
is cast, which is making me confused why did they do this especially
Sudeikis. It's cast with big experience i just don't understand need
for this.
<|_=00=_|>
OK there are many negative reviews of this movie - I do not think it is
meant to be an Oscar nominee. It is a movie about families with
different needs/problems/real life issues and it is centered around
Mother's Day. Just as Valentine's Day is a big favorite of millions of
people - it did not get any Oscars - but it is a movie that people
remember. Sometimes that is better. Three families with problems. A one
year anniversary for a mother's death, a divorce, and sisters with
secrets from parents. and a commitment issue woman wanting to know her
birth mother. Of course things get smoothed out - but it was fan
watching it all happen. It is move about real life and I appreciate
that. The sound track is fun, the pratfalls are OK, but the stories are
real. If you have been through a divorce - you will understand. Not a
great movie but a believable one.
<|_=00=_|>
With a sitcom-style film like "Mother's Day," one should expect some
clever dialogue, interesting character interactions, and at least some
grounding in reality. Unfortunately, this film never got on track with
either the humor or good characterization.

One of the major problems was that there were far too many characters
and relationships. The film switched from one set of family
interactions to another for two hours of superficial dialogue. Despite
the good cast (Julia Roberts, Jennifer Anniston, and others), the
dialogue sounded scripted and artificial.

Sit com always has very generalized characters. But this film was so
full of clichés that it was difficult to find credible any of the
character types: divorced mother, career-obsessed mother, racist
mother, divorced dad marrying younger woman, obligatory lesbian couple,
interracial couple, and wounded adopted daughter.

On the surface, the screenplay attempted to celebrate diversity in
contemporary families. But the shallow characters and predictable
situations resulted in a smarmy and dishonest approach to family
systems. Who would possibly want to watch this film on Mother's Day?
<|_=00=_|>
There is a demographic that will relate to this film: Females who are
(or somehow wish they were) moms and who have lives enhanced by cheap
daytime soaps and cheap paperback romance fiction novelettes. And, who
don't mind a script that challenges a sophomore writing class (that's
like the HS one) for stereotypic blandness; a dialogue seldom exceeding
seven words (with lots of head shot panning back and forth and ) and
repetitive plasticized robotic acting. Plot: Predictable buffet of
female family situations. I knew before watching they would have
Aniston in a sweating jogging or workout scene - yep. Usual preteen and
teen issues. What subsequent scene always shows up when a vending
machine fails to drop your snack? Yep again, someone tries to stick
their arm up. That is creative writing?? The whole movie imitates that
vending scene. Directing/editing: See somewhere in the above. Setting:
White suburbias (as in plural many times over).
<|_=00=_|>
Mother's Day had a very promising story which was ruined by utterly
poor execution and a complete waste of acting talent which was loaded
due to the casting of the movie. 

Story (7/10): Well, nothing was so much wrong with the story. Four
different lives, four different challenges and at some point of time,
they cross the paths - and all of it is centered around the hullabaloo
of Mother's Day. They all have their own theories and ideas for the big
day but they end up doing almost nothing that they originally thought
of - and that's where teeny tiny bit of the fun lies in the movie. A
well conceptualized story though. 

Acting (5/10): Acting is where this entire movie falls apart in spite
of big names like Julia Roberts and Jennifer Anniston. Anniston still
seems to be in that "Friends" zone with her dialog delivery. The
expressions are off and doesn't seem to be in the character really,
except for last few minutes in the climax. Julia Roberts holds pretty
much a flat face throughout the movie. Jason Sudeiki was probably the
only saving grace. The rest of the cast makes a decent attempt but
aren't able to lift up the movie. 

Direction (4/10): The direction of the movie is awful. Close to half of
the movie misses the flow and the scenes look like stitched together as
the director struggles to smoothly transition from one story to
another. The screenplay is pathetic and isn't able to hold the audience
more than few seconds. It is only at the end that things come together
when the four characters converge. However, the overall execution of
the movie "executes" the story. It just looks like the director
suddenly realized that Mother's Day is arriving and he has to release a
movie before that. 

Overall (5/10): Poorly executed. Should give it a pass.
