
Might as well get right to it, then. At the risk of sounding like a
contrarian, I did not love this film. Do I love elements of this? Yes.
Is this a 5-star masterpiece? Unfortunately, no. 

The cinematography here at least, is masterful. Director Christopher
Nolan has, without a doubt, reached the pinnacle of on-screen spectacle
here. The feats of practical effects in this film are breathtaking. The
casting of nearly 6,000 extras, authentic WWII vehicles, and shooting
on location in Dunkirk, France contribute to a great sense of scale
here. There is ongoing trend of action films in recent years of relying
on CGI, and thankfully Nolan bucks that trend. 

Similar to War for the Planet of the Apes, much of the film plays out
without much dialogue, leaning on just the score and sound design in
most scenes. It almost goes without saying that Hans Zimmer delivers
with another incredible score. The sound design is also extremely well
crafted, which, paired with Nolan's great work behind the camera, truly
transports you to the Battle of Dunkirk. The wailing of planes passing
above, the drone of gunfire, and the roar of explosions all contribute
to the complete immersion into the world these characters are trapped
in. This results in some of the most immersive wartime action scenes
since Saving Private Ryan.

This film has and will continue to be compared to World War II classic
Saving Private Ryan. Both films are beautifully filmed WWII period
pieces with casts that deliver great performances. The similarities end
there. Whereas Saving Private Ryan was engrossing as a narrative due to
it's characters with depth and arcs, Dunkirk instead leans on it's
subject matter and spectacle.

And while the subject matter of Dunkirk is fascinating, as a film it
lacks emotional firepower due to the absence of a strongly written
protagonist. This is strangely uncharacteristic of a director of
Nolan's caliber, especially when you recall the complex character work
in his most acclaimed films: The Dark Knight, Memento, and The
Prestige. Instead of focusing on a single character or single group of
characters, the focus is spread across three protagonists in completely
different situations. Showing the Dunkirk Evacuation through the three
different perspectives of those on the beach, the sea, and the air is
only an interesting proposition on paper. The narrative, due to this
writing choice, is spread far too thin, with few characters getting
enough screen time to develop even the mildest emotional connection.

While the characters in this film aren't written to even remotely be
compelling, the great work from this cast is not to be overlooked.
Harry Styles, known for being a member of English boy band One
Direction, is surprisingly excellent here in his acting debut. Mark
Rylance, Kenneth Branagh, and Fionn Whitehead also all give standout
performances despite the limited screen time they are given. 

I should love this film. Historical drama? WWII setting? My favorite
director Christopher Nolan? Amazing cinematography? Superb performances
from an ensemble cast? All of these elements made me sure I would love
this going in. But, Dunkirk's lack of emotional connection severely
detracts from the awe-inspiring scope and technical prowess displayed. 

If I reviewed based on visuals alone, this is a slam-dunk, walk-off
home run of a 5-star film. While a focus on grandeur and situation over
character depth and emotion may work for some (it obviously worked for
98% of critics on Rotten Tomatoes), it did not work for this critic.

This is without a doubt a cinematic achievement, but without an
emotional core, it's impossible for this film not to feel cold and
empty. Despite being a technical masterpiece, this is Christopher
Nolan's most disappointing film yet.
<|_=00=_|>
Dunkirk is, in my opinion, yet another masterpiece from mastermind
Christopher Nolan. Since everything that is brilliant about the film
has already been said I will briefly write what I think of the film and
also touch on a topic that some people are criticizing the movie for.

The fantastically directed film is told from 3 perspectives non
chronologically. It superbly tackles the narrative and the non linear
story doesn't at all pull you away from the intensity of the events
happening on screen that don't stop from 00:00 to the last scene. Hans
Zimmer most likely gives one of the most fitting scores for a war film
ever. Sometimes there is only one note playing followed by heartbeat
sounds and a ticking clock while other times a massive orchestra is
interpreting what is going on on screen. The movie brilliantly projects
the feeling of each and every soldier on the beach to the audience.
Confusion, turmoil and fear. The cinematography was breathtaking and I
felt anxious throughout most of the run time. There is no lead in this
film and I can't really say anyone stuck out as giving a brilliant
performance because it wasn't needed and I'll explain why.

The biggest criticisms of Dunkirk that I've heard of so far are that
the characters are lacking in depth and that we aren't given anything
to be invested in them. I feel like Nolan was trying (successfully) to
make the audience care for each and every one of the men on the beach.
He needed to have some form of "main characters" to be in the story so
that we can see the events unfold from the direct perspective of all of
the soldiers. Usually in war films (I'll use saving private Ryan as an
example) the plot revolves around certain soldiers (like Cpt. Miller
and Ryan) being in a war and doing things in the war but its still
about THEM not THE WAR as much. In my opinion Dunkirk is a telling the
STORY OF DUNKIRK. Not of Harry Style's character or Tom Hardy's
character but of Dunkirk. What any of the "main characters" felt, every
other soldier felt. Nolan resorted more to film-making techniques to
tell the story rather than dialogue and that is why some people might
have had a problem with the lack of character depth but realistically
this type of terrible event wouldn't be a place for someone to
"develop" as a character but rather a event where MEN WANTED ONLY
SURVIVAL, and Nolan showed that perfectly. As for what the top review
of Dunkirk on IMDb says about 'lack of emotion' in the film, I believe
this to be a completely incorrect statement. Maybe he was referring to
the lack of 'brotherhood amongst men' or the feeling of moral or
something epic like that. Again the longing for the 'Saving Private
Ryan' format of war films. What the reviewer fails to see is that
realistically there was NO emotion on that beach besides fear and
confusion. And I can safely say that Nolan and Zimmer and the DP all
successfully gave us those feelings.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Given the outright gushing of critics in praising this film, I was
quite surprised to discover Dunkirk to be not only not deserving of
such praise, but even worse, to be a cacophony of minimalist nonsense,
topped off by one of the most ridiculous film climaxes in recent memory
(more on that later). "Possibly the best war film of all time?" Not
quite, I could name dozens better. In fact I struggle to think of many
that are worse than this. My goodness, where to begin...

First I do not understand where the $150 million budget was spent. The
actual story of the Dunkirk evacuation involved - literally - hundreds
of thousands of men, and hundreds of boats and planes. In this film, we
see....a few hundred men? 30 boats? Something like six planes? Where is
the grand scale that a story like Dunkirk deserves, or really, demands?
There was no grand scale. That is a heinous omission and oversight and
ultimately fails to tell the story of Dunkirk as it should be told. And
if you don't want to use CGI to achieve that scale, that's fine, but
then either expand the real numbers of extras and props so it
replicates what Dunkirk was actually like, or, don't do the film. A few
soldiers standing around on the beach looks incredibly silly when the
characters say on more than one occasion that there are over 300,000
men there. Where are they? We never saw them. Ludicrous.

Similarly, we see a few boats here and there, and a few planes. This
does not come close to approximating the flotilla of ships, boats and
other watercraft used - in reality over 800. It's hard to appreciate
what a tremendous achievement the Dunkirk evacuation was - ultimately,
the aim of this film I suspect - when we never actually see that
achievement occur. We see a few boats and few planes. Literally a drop
in the bucket of what Dunkirk was. Yet at the conclusion, as the men
are disembarking, back safe in England, we are supposed to be swept up
in a swelling feeling of appreciation for something that we never
actually witness. Very bizarre.

The soundtrack, if you can call it that, was an escalating collection
of random and intrusive blaring instruments that can be best described
as 'noise.' I have no idea what the goal was there. Perhaps it was an
attempt to convey what one might feel, the intense experience one might
have, if he or she was in a war-time situation like this. Perhaps. A
professional critic called it 'bombastic' and that's probably being
generous. I am not lying when I tell you I had to take an Advil when I
got back from the theater, thanks to the crazily escalating noise that
overwhelms the latter part of the film. Yikes.

As for the climax, the scene of a Spitfire seemingly free of the laws
of physics and gravity is bereft of all logic, and was such an
eye-rolling piece of nonsense, no amount of criticism on my part can do
it justice. Let's just say planes cannot keep flying indefinitely, much
less maneuver and successfully engage other aircraft, when that plane
has run out of fuel. The film deserves to be panned for this ridiculous
scene alone.

This is not a great war film, it's not even a good war film. It is not
typical or traditional story-telling, I will give it that. There are
stretches of this film that lack dialogue and there is zero character
development. While different, that's hardly unique (it's been done
before). Perhaps some critics haven't understood that 'different' does
not automatically translate to 'good' or 'great' - sometimes, it does
not.

Put down the Kool-Aid. As my brother said to me when we walked out of
the theater last night, "Assuming I would like this, I thought I would
go see this again over the weekend. Not only am I not doing that now, I
won't even bother watching this once it's on cable or Netflix." True
that, bro. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to understand critic ratings of 10/10 while this movie
undeniably lacks quality on some very important aspects. Let me start
off with some positive notes:

- IMAX: The impact of the bullets and bombs felt as if you were really
there. The entire movie is shot in a very realistic way. 

- Opening scene: The suspense, music and cinematography all came
together very well in the opening scene, which really made me excited
for the scenes to come.

- Acting: Poor acting can easily distract the audience from their
experience of being in a certain time/place. But there was not a single
moment in which an actor did something out of character. All
expressions were very believable. Great acting!

But there were some major aspects I had issues with:

- Characters: The characters did not have any background story and
there's hardly any dialogue to give some insight. The main characters
are therefore replaceable for any other random soldier on that beach. I
do not expect an elaborate introduction of every character, certainly
not in a historical war movie, but the downside is that the audience
cannot empathize with the main characters. I really didn't care for one
of them to die. I've seen hundreds of soldiers die in earlier scenes of
the movie, why would one or two more (just as hollow and unknown as any
other soldier) bother me a bit? It's no must to focus on character
development, as long as the other aspects of the movie make up for the
lack of it. In Dunkirk that sadly was not the case.

- Editing: Sometimes it was hard to follow which moment in time is
shown, because the movie abruptly cuts between three perspectives,
therefore even showing some events twice. I find this non-linear
storytelling and continuity breaks unnecessary and poorly executed.

- Repetitive: Much scenes are identical or slightly different from
another. Especially the flight scenes did not add much to the story.
Instead I rather would've seen some scenes at the front-line with
troops actually defending the beach instead of just a bunch of scared,
helpless troops waiting for the next plane to fly over and bomb the
shite out of them. Keeping out the Germans at the front-line is just as
much a part of the story of Dunkirk and it would've given us a chance
to actually see the enemy and get some awesome battle scenes. 

- Music: Usually I enjoy Zimmer's score. But in this movie there was no
moment of silence, not a moment to break the suspense. Especially in
IMAX, my ears were buzzing hours after I left the cinema. Was this
intentional? Was it supposed to feel like one big action scene without
any breaks, to get the same feeling of those soldiers, trapped between
battles unable to take a break, constantly in stress of a nearing
attack? Well, than Nolan did succeed. But I found it very annoying. 

Overall I believe this movie is highly overrated, due to many biased
Nolan fans and critics blindly hopping on the hype-train. I found it a
very boring movie. The lack of an interesting plot or any interesting
characters sadly wasn't compensated enough by the impressive
audiovisuals. Rescue yourself from boredom and don't watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Christopher Nolan is a visual genius: this film is just stunning to
look at. From the bullets flying near soldier's head to gorgeous
explosions, it transports you right into the war zone within the first
10 minutes of the screening. Furthermore, it is an accurate description
of the "Miracle of Dunkirk". This is where the movie nails it. However,
apart from that, I've had a couple of issues with it.

The film is told from three perspectives: Air, Mole and Sea. This is
where the movie falls a bit short. The editing at some points feels
lazy and not very consistent: it cuts from a dramatic scene or intense
action scene very quickly. 

The film is told in a non-linear way: this makes us watch certain
scenes twice through different perspectives. Although this could've
been done in a very interesting way, it's very difficult to keep track
of whose perspective we're watching at times. Even when certain
semi-important (I'll get back to this later) soldiers die, it took me a
while to realise this happened.

This is where my third and final problem come into question: the
characters lack depth. You don't care about the main character, nor any
of the other soldiers that are dying. If I'm watching a film about war,
I like to bond with the characters I'm seeing on screen. If none of
them show any real emotion, the viewer won't as well.

All in all, Dunkirk could've been amazing. I personally don't
understand why it has such a high rating besides being directed by a
very well-known director / starring famous actors (including infamous
Harry Styles) / being a war biography. Disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw an early screening tonight in Denver.

I don't know where to begin. So I will start at the weakest link. The
acting. Still great, but any passable actor could have been given any
of the major roles and done a great job. I know almost no more about
the battle of Dunkirk after seeing the film than I did before, and I am
not exactly a WWII historian. Truth be told, I learned all I know about
the battle of Dunkirk from the movie poster. Does that weaken the film?
Hell no, this is a film about survival. The opening scene tells it all
and sets the stage as we get our first glimpse into a young soldier's
need to stay alive, and his creative attempts to do so. That actor may
even be considered the main character of the film. More words have been
written so far in this review than he speaks. And I have no clue who
the actor in that role is. It is humorous that Tom Hardy looks like
Bane through most the film in the role of a pilot wearing an oxygen
mask throughout. Kenneth Branagh is the only officer with any lines in
the film, so that should give you an idea of the POV that we
experience. We are the enlisted man trying to find a way to stay alive
in a chaotic and harrowing battle. Though I believe Dunkirk will win
every single technical Oscar, I would be surprised if it has any acting
nominations at all.

How does Nolan elevate this above other films of a similar nature? I
think he says it best himself, when he describes Dunkirk as a thriller
more than a war film. He pulls that off superbly.

When a ship starts to take in water as numerous bullets penetrate its
hull, I wanted to jump out of my seat and cover up the holes myself.

The film has three separate stories that are titled Mole, Sea and Air.
And we all know where Moles live. The way the narratives of the three
stories unfold and how they are all tied together is what makes the
film a masterpiece. Much has been said about Nolan using IMAX film
cameras and how the film is enriched by this. I don't know. I doubt I
saw actual film being projected at my screening. Every frame looked
terrific though. 

So what is the most superlative aspect of the film? Gotta be the
soundtrack. Hans Zimmer will win the Oscar for this without a doubt. So
, so brilliant. This is not a soundtrack that I would buy at the store
and play on my stereo. This is a soundtrack that weaves throughout the
three narratives seamlessly and creates this phenomenal sense of
tension. There are times when a two or three minute tense orchestral
passage plays continuously as the story shifts from the ground to the
sea then to the air and the music draws the three stories together.
Zimmer's soundtrack reminds me of the way that Bernard Hermann's work
was so vitally important in building suspense in most Hitchcock films.
Though that description almost sells Zimmer short. His soundtrack is
that good.

I don't think this is a film that will retain even half of its strength
in your home theater. No folks, this is a film that you cough up for an
overpriced IMAX ticket and rationalize it by knowing that experiencing
Dunkirk in any other fashion will just not cut it.
<|_=00=_|>
For the majority of his career Christopher Nolan has thrived in
surrealism, whether it be focusing on caped crusaders or unchartered
space missions. So it's intriguing to see him return to a narrative
steeped in realism, and grounded by its commitment to real life
occurrences. The results are staggeringly impressive too, while the
talented filmmaker maintains his creative sensibilities, crafting a war
movie that feels distinctively his.When thinking about war films, it's
very hard not to go straight to the classics such as Apocalypse Now,
Platoon or Saving Private Ryan.You have to make something very special
to be mentioned in the same sentence as films like those.

Naturally I was excited for the movie and I think most people were
because we knew that it is Nolan's movie. From the opening shot of
dunkirk you are in it and You are experiencing everything like you are
there , there's never a dull moment or scene where characters sit
around a campfire and say who you got back home no background stories.
You don't get those kind of things in Dunkirk what you are used to see
in war films yeah this could be a problem because you don't feel
connected to specific characters and you are not connected emotionally
but this movie is not like others there are many war movies and we have
seen many similar things but this movie is not about individual it's
completely about the event. It's about the evacuation like being in the
middle of this horrific situation. According to my opinion When you are
in a situation like this you don't say "hey my name is.....what's yours
where are you from - oh I thought we could have a conversation between
all the bombs and planes firing constantly" No this movie is in the
moment and how Nolan show us the event It's what movies were invented
for. everything on the screen look completely authentic there's never a
moment that feels wasted. When I heard that it's only 106 minutes long
I thought it should be 3 hours long movie but when I saw that it starts
in battle and ends in battle I think it's perfectly made in one and
half hour. And if you're expecting big arcs then sorry because
sometimes in war people die alone and no one's there to comfort them or
tell them it's going to be OK that's what make this movie so
terrifying.

"Dunkirk" tells the story of a group of allied soldiers from Belgium,
France, and the British Empire. When they find themselves surrounded by
the Germany army on the beaches of Dunkirk, the film follows the story
of the evacuation of 400,000 during the early stages of World War
II.boasting an incredible cast, Christopher Nolan allows his players to
internalize the fear and emotion, and allow them to express it in the
most aromatic and penetrating demeanor's. As Tommy, Fionn Whitehead
makes an astounding mark in his feature film debut. With no true lead
in the movie, his point of view is often a crutch for the audience to
rest upon, as his internalization of the character is one of the film's
most pivotal high points.It is gripping from its very opening moments,
in which we see soldiers getting picked off by invisible snipers in the
middle of the titular town as propaganda flyers shower from overhead,
announcing to the British, French, Canadian, Belgian and Dutch troops
that they are hopelessly penned in by the Germans.We are in the early
months of World War Two.Christopher Nolan makes the decision to avoid
all of this explanation, and to give us a Dunkirk that focuses on the
personal experiences of the war by land, sea and air 

The sea battle is also done very well from a technical perspective. We
get a sense of the claustrophobia of being aboard ship, the shell-shock
and the terror of a watery death, especially when combined with lit
gasoline. I thought the acting was by far the best in this segment. I
very much liked Mark Rylance's quiet earnestness as a civilian sailor
sailing to Dunkirk with his son - the quiet communication between the
two of them with glances - the profound sympathy toward Cillian
Murphy's traumatised rescued RAF pilot. And the scene of soldiers
drowning under a fiery sea is one of the most memorable and rightly
horrific in the film.

Dunkirk is edge of your seat filmmaking. Can honestly say I've never
seen anything like it.A lot of people were wondering about Harry_styles
& unknown cast. They're all great but Dunkirk is not about any one
solider. Also 'Dunkirk' is another brilliant collaboration between
Nolan & HansZimmer. The way he mixes in a ticking clock with score is
nail biting.DUNKIRK relies on very little dialogue.We all know what
happened on that beach, but Nolan's take is worth visiting. Yes,
DUNKIRK relies heavily on sound of an increasingly fast ticking clock
to build suspense.Drop everything and go watch Dunkirk. It is an
experience. Not a mere film.
<|_=00=_|>
Crow the critics are about Nolan's latest, "Dunkirk." A stunning
masterpiece say many. Masterpiece my ass.

Snookered by the hype and war film fandom, ducats were placed on
counter, a ticket for admission passed back. Lights dimmed,
anticipation mounted, and... nothing. Nothing. Save lurching between
disparate, battle set pieces featuring people for whom little or no
empathy exists. Lacking investment in the characters, what remains are
merely adequate, bloodless war scenes easily outgunned by the recent
"Fury" and, farther back, "Saving Private Ryan." For example, a young
boy is killed but we know nothing of him, nothing of his motivation for
climbing aboard a civilian, Dunkirk-bound boat at the last minute. We
feel nothing for him because he's simply a cardboard cutout.

As the actors barely register emotion, boredom set in and not to be
shaken off. The characters move as wind-up toys. There are few actors
who bare their soul like Cillian Murphy, here a shell-shocked survivor.
As directed, he sleepwalks with the depth of an amateur in a high
school production. He's not alone. All the actors turn in measured
performances with identical blank looks and monotone deliveries.
Particularly wasted is the actor's actor, Kenneth Branagh.

Certainly the bravery and sacrifice of civilian and military in the
Dunkirk evacuation is celebrated in "Dunkirk." Thank you. However, this
historical action occurred in 1940. Films echo the zeitgeist of the
time in which they're produced. It's an odd choice to make a large
(bad) film about an evacuation three-quarters of a century past.
There's a stink of political agenda afoot in "Dunkirk" that's
intolerable. The enemy, unseen in "Dunkirk," lurks and kills from
safety by air and ground. Surrounded with backs to the the Atlantic,
the very survival of a way of life is in question, as portrayed in
"Dunkirk." (Spoiler Alert: The Allies Won The War.) The enemy's attacks
are isolated like terrorism. The result is "Dunkirk" weaves a
cautionary allegory mirroring religious extremism bent on destroying
all non-believers.

Subtle propaganda is dangerous. "Dunkirk" fits that bill. Either that
or Nolan is a complete idiot who hasn't a whit of sense. It's a toss-up
based on a filmography including the lackluster borefest
"Interstellar," and the beyond inane "Inception." 

Nolan remains static in his career with "Dunkirk." His films are
half-baked, underwritten, detached, and emotion-free. "Dunkirk" plays
like a rough cut by a bad director who expects the viewer to
emotionally fill-in-the-blanks. "Dunkirk" even lacks the courage of its
convictions in being bloodless - there are no graphic deaths. At least
Spielberg had the courage to rub the viewer's nose in the stench of
death in "Saving Private Ryan." The first half hour of that film is
unprecedented in the depiction of carnage (one can almost taste the
grit of raining sand from nearby mortar strikes). Nolan
sanitizes-for-your-own-protection. Yet he chose a violent topic and
punked out; a war movie detached from death is not a film about war. By
design, war cannot include gratuitous violence, just insanity - an
element also lacking in "Dunkirk."

The wall-to-wall dramatic, but mixed low, score loses its effectiveness
and becomes annoying. And, the constant, ham-handed crosscutting
between stories further waters this already thin soup by stopping a
scene's dramatic momentum.

A short scene in "Mrs. Miniver" (1942) featuring civilian Walter
Pidgeon returning from Dunkirk in his shot up runabout says more in the
visuals and a few lines of dialogue about the evacuation than the
entirety of "Dunkirk." As Trump might Tweet, "Sad!"
<|_=00=_|>
I am sure that the critics that write the reviews are paid shills
because anyone who considers that movie to be a masterpiece has either
never seen a war movie or is just taking money to lie to the public.

Dunkirk was more spectacular than 7 or so boats, 3 planes and less than
300 men in a line on a beach. 

And whose idea was it to pay Tom Hardy a ridiculous sum of the budget
to once again hide his face and never actually do what he is paid to do
which last I checked was acting? It's obvious he was used in this movie
to give it some credibility just like they did with the Mad Max debacle
where he spent 3 quarters of the movie with a face covering on
preventing him from speaking. 

The noise was awful and apparently some of that noise was considered to
be music! Dull bass throbbing in every scene.

Story? Lets not even go there. I can sum up the Story in one paragraph
although you cannot really consider it a spoiler because there's
nothing in this to spoil. 

"Trapped on a beach awaiting rescue but the ships keep getting
destroyed by dive bombers with only 3 planes to protect those ships.
Ends with Hardy finally revealing his face when he is captured after
landing his plane which has run out of fuel."

That's it. Everything else in between is just noise. 

To the people who consider themselves to be critics I say this: If you
want the movie industry to become like the gaming industry where the
main goal is most profit in shortest time regardless of the content
then keep spouting the BS otherwise you need to start telling the truth
for once. 

Two hours of noise and it cost them $100 million to make? It's obvious
where that money went because these so called movie creators couldn't
even be bothered to use CGI to expand the number of men, ships and
planes to really set the scene. 

There was nothing in this movie and Tom Hardy was thick or corrupt
enough to be used as the marketing tool. 

Don't waste your money.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, awful. How can anyone honestly give this film a positive
recommendation? It is so amateurish. Whoever wrote the screenplay
forgot the story. What story is it! It's not about Dunkirk, the famous
WWII evacuation of British troops from France. What about the French
troops? The British commander says to hell with them. Two cowards are
the focus of the story. They will do anything to get out ahead of
everyone else who are patiently waiting, keeping order, and waiting
their turn. One other is picked up by a civilian boat on its way to
rescue troops at Dunkirk, and he fights the crew to not go back. He
kills one of them. Great story? I figure they used 5 planes to make the
entire film: three RAF fighters, one German fighter, and one German
bomber, all classic planes. Why I say this is b/c they only show three
RAF fighters in one scene, and then it's always a one-on-one with all
the other scenes. The special effects are from the 1950's. I think they
did a better job in Wings, 1927. Also, it's hard to figure out what
they are saying. I missed half the dialogue, but I didn't miss much b/c
it's so worthless a film. It's aimless, boring, pathetic, and cheap.
There is nothing epic about this film. It's a sad joke. What a waste of
my money. It's one of the most over-rated films of all time.
