
Paterson is a celebration of the small details in life. A poetic and
charming love-story about a perfectly ordinary couple, living in a
perfectly ordinary town. 

The town in question is Paterson, New Jersey. Home of poet William
Carlos Williams, comedian Lou Costello, and one of America's largest
waterfalls. The man in question, in true Jarmusch style, is also named
Paterson (played with pinpoint subtly by Adam Driver). Paterson is a
hard-working bus driver who quietly goes about his duties, all the
while allowing the scenery and eavesdropped conversation to inspire his
main passion in life; writing poetry. Meanwhile, his girlfriend and the
love of his life, played without fault by Iranian actress Golshifteh
Farahani, is a stay-at-home creative. She spends her day baking
imaginative cupcakes and making new curtains from scratch. The films
narrative centres around a seven day week. Each day brings a new
variation on the theme, and each moment a reflection on two people who
wholeheartedly accept each other for who they are. 

Paterson is a quiet and contemplative film that sits perfectly in
Jarmusch's repertoire. It's a film about how people choose to live
their life, regardless of the necessities to work and make money. Like
poetry, the words and images flow with little dramatic tension or
conflict. Jarmusch explained at Cannes that he intended Paterson to be
an antidote to the modern action film, and if this is the case, I'll
definitely be coming back for another dose.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I kindly remind IMDb users that, if you want to click on
"Yes" or "No" at the bottom of this review, the question is: "Was the
above review useful to you?", NOT "Do you agree with the above
review?", nor "Do you agree with the rating without reading the above
review?". Thank you.

Second, just to explain where I stand, I do like artistic movies, even
slow ones, and even some of Jim Jarmusch's. They are offbeat,
contemplative and somewhat poetic. In "Paterson", poetry is obviously
his chief ambition: the main character is an amateur poet, there are
talks about (more or less) famous poets and it relies on "everyday
poetry", if this makes sense.

- One poetic component is repetition: the main character has the same
name as the city he lives in; we see many twins (thus a "double
repetition"); events occur repeatedly; there are a few correspondences
(for instance Laura has the same name as Petrarch's muse); the camera
focuses on leitmotifs (watch, cereals, lunchbox, mailbox, beer glass,
etc.). All this creates "internal rhymes" that, interestingly, are
missing from Paterson's poems. What about these poems, by the way? They
are sort of nice in their genre, however do we really need to hear them
two or three times each, and see them written on top of that? It would
have required an outstanding style, which I think is lacking.

- Another poetic ingredient is oddity: strange elements slowly spill
into an otherwise ordinary life.The black and white motifs created by
Laura progressively invade the house: curtains, painting, carpets,
clothing, and even the spare wheel cover of their car. When Paterson
and Laura go to the cinema, they watch a horror movie which is, echoing
Laura's motifs, in black and white (an additional correspondence).
Small objects have a magical touch, notably the matchbox. Everett draws
a gun in the bar. There are uncommon encounters, for instance the young
poetess, the separating couple and the Japanese tourist. Entertaining,
in a way.

- Another phenomenon is the "enchanted bubble" sensation. It is a happy
life: Paterson and Laura have a relatively easy time (although he seems
on the edge, yet nothing wrong happens); they love each other;
everybody is friendly; it is always sunny. There are no news from the
outside world. The couple is isolated from family, real friends and
neighbours, if any; they have no TV, no computer; he has no mobile
phone. The rare issues are trifle: gang youngsters in a convertible
just provide a fair warning; the Indian driver's problems are not so
dramatic (especially considering how he describes them); Everett's gun
is fake; the bus breaks down without consequences. The only drama is
the loss of the secret book, however Paterson continues to write on
another notebook given by Providence. Moreover, it is comforting to see
hidden talents behind apparently simple personalities (writing,
cooking, decorating, chess, etc.): it demonstrates we all have
something to express.

- Last, there is some form of humour, notably with the above-mentioned
invasive motifs, the grumpy dog and the contrast between Paterson and
Laura. She is enthusiastic, eccentric, willing to try all sorts of
activities; she dreams of fame and actually is rather talented. He is
reserved, quiet, slightly puzzled by her; he just wants a peaceful life
and is talented as well, as a writer. She always is onto something new
(and sometimes weird) while he is stuck in routine. Amusing, to an
extent.

And then? Well, that's about it. The movie mainly relies on these bits
and pieces. It is enough for a short film, however here it drags on for
almost two hours. In the end, the ensemble feels somewhat pointless:
this is partly intentional, of course, but it did limit my
appreciation.

So what is missing? Probably, "Paterson" does not go far enough in its
ambition. For instance, the bizarre touch could have been pushed
further, to explore a different dimension. Or the humour. Or the
elaboration of a stronger poetic structure. Or a progression of some
sort. Or the inclusion of themes, adding depth and triggering another
emotion than just having a pleasant time.

I cannot rate the movie lower than 5/10 because it is not terrible.
There are a few interesting ideas, characters are likable, it is laid
back, it changes form the standard blockbuster. Yet I cannot rate it
higher because it did not appeal to me: it doesn't have much substance,
doesn't evolve and doesn't provide a lasting impression, unlike
exceptional films that linger in the mind for days. Not bad, not great,
just in the middle. Half-baked.

But then, appreciating poetry is very subjective. Hence it is
understandable some persons find the movie captivating and rate it
10/10 (which is easier to defend than the same rating for "Police
Academy 6"). On the other hand, it also is understandable persons find
it utterly boring and rate it 1/10 (which is easier to defend than the
same rating for "Citizen Kane"). Question of personal sensitivity to
this style.

"Paterson" tries to illustrate James Tate's brilliant quote: "Poetry is
everywhere; it just needs editing." Unfortunately, I missed the editing
part. Maybe I am narrow-minded.
<|_=00=_|>
From reflections in a puddle, cardinals singing, waterfalls, a
harlequin guitar, shadows, designer cupcakes and more, the love of a
creative and happy couple spills over the small town of Paterson, New
Jersey. The ordinary becomes extraordinary. Paterson, who shares his
name with the community at large, is a bus driver. The daily bus route
takes him through the heart of town where Paterson overhears intriguing
conversations, records observations in his notebook, generates poems
and opens lunchbox surprises from his lovely and artistic wife, Laura.
The couple's chemistry, expressed in kisses, constant conversation,
cheer and trust, is remarkable. "She understands me really well," says
Paterson. Lucky guy. Lucky girl. The attractiveness, talent, color and
charm of Laura and Paterson is infused in everything they do including
Paterson's nightly tavern visits, the plain yet peculiar meals they
have together, waking up in the morning and walking the dog.

Even in all its outward simplicity, there is astonishing and wonderful
depth to the film characters, scenes, themes and conversations. This
artistic sensibility that is infused in everyday life, is something I
loved so much about Japan and Paterson shows what this imaginative
awareness looks like in small town North America. Truly there is
inspiration and beauty everywhere. While the film delves into music,
paintings and other mediums, its main artistic focus is on poetry.
There are nods to the poetry of William Carlos Williams, Wallace
Stevens and others. The poems Paterson comes up with in his jaunts
around town are brilliant and beautiful. A box of Blue tip matches
inspires, rather sparks, a love poem. A poem called Another One is
about seeing other dimensions, which is what this incredible film
encourages itself. 

Paterson is delightfully layered with surprising wisdom, complexity,
diversity and humor at every turn. Twins make appearances every so
often, for example, to remind us of one of the film themes; there is
always someone out there like us that matches our hearts, and we are
never really alone. Articles and images on a tavern wall take us to
other dimensions in time in an instant. The on-screen chemistry between
actors Adam Driver (Paterson) and Golshifteh Farahani (Laura) is
critical to the film, and they are more than up to the task. They are
outstanding, alluring and entirely convincing. The compassion and charm
of this film is unforgettable. It reminds us that love and splendor
spring from the unlikeliest of places. Seen at the 2016 Toronto
International Film Festival.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if Jim Jarmusch ("Only Lovers Left Alive") in Paterson
wants to make America great again by giving us his vision of the way it
used to be, or is telling us that we only have to look around us to
discover that it's great right now. Performed by a brilliantly
authentic Adam Driver ("Midnight Special"), Paterson is not only the
name of the city in New Jersey known for its resident poet William
Carlos Williams, but is also his name. He is a poet whose Haiku-like
verses (actually written by Ron Padgett) are reminiscent of the city's
own poet William Carlos Williams. He writes a new poem every day (or
finishes an old one) on the #23 bus he drives before and during his
trip. Though his loving, energetic, somewhat scattered wife Laura
(Golshifteh Farahani, "Finding Altamira") keeps asking him to make
copies of them, he resists the idea, preferring to keep them in his
secret notebook.

The film has little conflict, family dysfunction, or mental health
issues. It is about what works and even (wonder of wonders) about a
marriage that is not falling apart. Like most people with jobs and
families, Paterson has a daily routine. There's too much variation in
his day to call it a takeoff on Groundhog Day, but it does have that
"same old, same old" quality. He awakes shortly after 6am, has a bowl
of cereal that looks suspiciously like Cheerios, walks to his job
driving the #23 bus through the streets of Paterson, listening in on
conversations (often with a broad smile on his face) of passengers who
talk about anything from Italian anarchists to boxer Hurricane Carter
and comedian Lou Costello.

He comes home at six, corrects a leaning mailbox that moves daily
thanks to his grumpy English bulldog Marvin (RIP), has dinner (some on
the exotic side) talks with Laura who fills him in on the many projects
she has going on including painting black and white circles on
draperies, learning to play the guitar, and making cupcakes to sell at
the local farmers market. He then takes Marvin for a walk and goes for
a beer at the local pub where he chats with the owner Doc (Barry
Shabaka Henley, "Carrie"), and often acts as a moderator between
Everett (William Jackson Harper, "True Story"), a dramatic actor who
desperately wants to reunite with his ex-wife Maria (Chasten Harmon.

The poems that Paterson reads as the words are flashed on the screen
are not about odes to nightingales (though there's nothing wrong with
that) but about down-to-earth things, such as one about matches,
inspired by Ohio Blue Tip matchboxes that have disappeared from our
lives. In "The Run," he says, "I go through trillions of molecules that
move aside to make way for me while on both sides trillions more stay
where they are. The windshield wiper blade starts to squeak. The rain
has stopped. I stop. On the corner a boy in a yellow raincoat holding
his mother's hand." In other poems he lets the world know how much he
is in love with his wife, though he confides in us that he occasionally
looks at other woman, something which as far as I know is still legal.

To Paterson, a poem should be simple and direct and he is moved by one
such poem by a 9-year-old girl who recites it to him while she is
waiting for her mother and sister. He complements her on her poem about
a waterfall, remembering a few lines and reciting them to Laura when he
gets home. Contrary to most films where, except for films about wealthy
financial elites, work does not play a big role in the life of the
characters, Paterson makes real what daily living is about for a
majority of working people. The film has warmth and humor wrapped in a
portrait of a city which has seen better days, a city in which Jarmusch
creates a structure of closely observed small moments revealed with
empathy.

Paterson is a man who is not looking for life to give him satisfaction
but who brings satisfaction to it, a man who knows that satisfaction
does not depend on accumulating things but in being grounded in who you
are and what you can bring to the world. He comes to appreciate that
poetry is not extraneous to life but that life itself is poetry.
Although the film presents an idealistic picture of a city without
visible slums, drugs, and crime which we know exists, Jarmusch may be
providing us with a welcome counterpoint, showing us the way our cities
should be and can be again.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the summary: A bus driver named Paterson drives a bus in a town
called Paterson, NJ. He lives with a woman who doesn't work but paints
black and white designs on everything that doesn't move. A week in the
life of this pair runs as follows: He gets up and goes to work. Writes
some poetry in a notebook. We watch as he walks to and from work. There
are twins dotted all over Paterson. She buys an expensive guitar as she
wants to become a country singer and she also makes cup cakes. There is
a dog called Marvin. Marvin eats the poetry notebook. Paterson
despondent. But then meets a Japanese man who asks him if he is a poet
and gives him a new blank notebook. Closing credits. By which time the
red hot pins stuck in my eyes had become permanently embedded. What
sounded like clapping rose from one section of the meagre audience,
except it wasn't clapping. It was a woman slapping her partner trying
to wake him up.

Marvin was good.
<|_=00=_|>
I have known this movie quite some time before actually watching it,
mostly because half the people I knew who had watched it said it was
amazing, poetic, beautiful, and the other half said it was terrible,
slow, just plain bad. 

I started reading comments about how terrible this movie was, on the
website I was watching the movie on. But I also knew that many people I
know said to me it was an amazing movie, and they were completely
right. Even though some maybe would say it is kind of slow, (not my
opinion at all) it is without a doubt worth the wait.

It really is (at least in my opinion) one of the best movies of 2016.
It is beautifully directed by the great Jim Jarmusch. Not knowing the
actors I was very pleasantly surprised by the acting, Adam Driver gives
a truly amazing performance. This is really not a movie for everyone, I
know many people who thinks it is a terrible movie, and can not at all
understand why I think it is so good.

All I know is, I had an amazing time watching this movie and it made me
really happy to see they are still making movies like that in the year
2016. I am gonna finish by saying if you like different, a little
weird, and poetic movies, this is the one you are looking for. I hope
you found this review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as
much as I do. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I really felt that although folks mostly agreed that the movie captured
the "poetry of everyday life", there was much more to be had from the
movie, which has it subtleties aplenty. Yes the ruins of Paterson are
beautiful, yes the dappling of the light is fine, yes Laura and
Paterson are a beautiful couple but go deeper!

Most art that you initially create is going to be derivative.
Paterson's poetry is essentially derivative of William Carlos Williams.
You have to fight through this phase and find your own creations. So
when Paterson's homework is eaten by the dog (remember to see the
humour in this), I was mindful that the dog had done him a favour,
because all of the early stuff is worthless, unless you happened to be
called Rimbaud or Chatterton, and even then I imagine they burned a lot
of doggerel before they wrote a good sentence. Derivation can be
incredibly apparent in painting, for example Mondrian, where he dabbled
with other folks' styles (impressionism, fauvism and even pointillism)
before he arrived at his unique mature expression, for which he is
famous (termed neoplasticism).

Writing poetry is difficult, as so eloquently pointed out by WB Yeats:

"We sat together at one summer's end,// That beautiful mild woman, your
close friend, // And you and I, and talked of poetry.// I said, 'A line
will take us hours maybe;// Yet if it does not seem a moment's thought,
// Our stitching and unstitching has been naught.// Better go down upon
your marrow-bones // And scrub a kitchen pavement, or break stones //
Like an old pauper, in all kinds of weather; // For to articulate sweet
sounds together// Is to work harder than all these"

Paterson will need to break a lot of patterns and cobwebs if he wants
to become a great poet.

Many have looked at this portrait of a relationship and saw something
sweet and tender. I'm sorry but I saw two disconnected individuals, a
freeloading girlfriend, a boyfriend without a backbone, and a couple
that didn't make decisions together. They're both good-looking tranquil
people, but they're not soulmates. Laura tells Paterson that his poetry
is great, but he needs challenge, not a sycophant, he needs someone who
understands him, not someone who uses his wages to buy an expensive dog
and gets him to walk it every evening! So when he recites a love poem,
it's something false, it's a confection, it's what we want to hear but
it's not true, and this is why he's still so far from greatness.

The use of doubles in the movie is far from trivial, what it's saying
is that there is a different lives Paterson (or any of us) could be
leading, we have to make choices every day about which person we are
going to be. The dissolve at the end when Paterson is lying in bed and
seems to disappear momentarily is hinting that he might be best off
disavowing his current life, he should be running a mile. Yet it's a
comfortable life, and everyone likes comfy right? Two guys on the bus
have a discussion where both recall recent encounters with women they
liked and both had managed to fumble the ball through inaction, they
chose, they don't live uncomfortable lives, but they chose not to live
passionate lives. So that's why I chose the title for the review,
because we all have to decide whether to embrace nonbeing, some sort of
Taoist concept of naturalness, or whether we want to bristle our
creativity, and streak like comets. Maybe the latter is innately
egotistical. I think that the choice is what this movie is about, be
humble or be brave. The movie is dualistic, no one interpretation is
there to be forced on you. For me when he writes a poem about the song
"Swinging on a Star" that's saying something key, he mentions that the
only line he really plays again in his head is the one about being a
fish, not being any of the others lives in the song. Again this is
dualistic because it could be saying that he knows the life of a poet
is for him, and it's the only one he thinks about, so he should embrace
it, but if you read the full lyrics of the song, it talks about the
fish who "can't write his name or read a book". Whereas another option
"Would you like to swing on a star // Carry moonbeams home in a jar //
And be better off than you are". Seems like the best though radical
option that is open to Paterson, to change everything, but perhaps he
won't take it.

Ending on a more playful note, congratulations to Mr Jarmusch for yet
again working a matchbox into proceedings!
<|_=00=_|>
I owe Jarmusch a debt of gratitude for being a formative figure in
shaping my cinematic tastes. I shall never forget watching Stranger
Than Paradise (1984) in NY in the early 1980s: the novelty, joy,
patient camera movement, the fantastic way of playing Creedence
Clearwater Revival's 'I Put a Spell on You' throughout the soundtrack.
I have seen most of Jarmusch's movies ever since and more than three
decades later, Paterson did not disappoint. Jarmusch is as creative as
ever, gifting us with a wonderful film. The set is Paterson N.J., the
protagonists are a bus driver also named Patterson and his artistically
creative spouse. Paterson writes poetry, reads poetry, and encounters
poetry wherever he goes and whoever he meets. This is it. And it is as
engaging, uplifting, funny, and as insightful as a film can be.
Patterson may be watched as a homage. It delicately portrays a
particular place, Paterson New Jersey, reminding us that a place, any
place, is always a product of the way its present mixes up with its
past, of the way people both walk it and remember it. But the film is
not only a homage to a place, it is also a homage to daily life, to the
mundanity of just going to work and having a drink after a day's work.
One striking feature of this film is that there are no bad characters
here, no evil spirits, no mean intentions. In fact the only mean
character in the film is the protagonists' dog, but even the dog is not
too bad, just a drag. And miraculously, in spite of this, the film is
totality innocent of naiveté. As if at the hands of a gifted
anthropologist, the camera curiously follows and watches, and the film
never falls into anything resembling judgment and condescension. It is
truly genius in its ability to draw us into the perspective of the
protagonists, to embrace their feelings and movements, to empathize
with them and to fall in love with their numerous small encounters.
Remarkably, one of the achievements here is that the film feels and
looks timeless. It could be shot in the 1950s, or the 1970s, and yet it
makes no attempt to hide the fact that it has been shot only recently.
Incidentally, Paterson makes a point about not having a mobile phone.
It does wonders to the film and its ability to give homage. A truly
uplifting film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not so easy to say what 'Paterson' is about. It's about a week in
the life of a bus driver - that's the easy answer. A week in which not
much happens, by the way. But it's also about poetry: the bus driver
writes poems while waiting behind the wheel. It's about happiness: the
film is drenched in it. And about simplicity: the bus driver's life is
extremely simple. He wakes up at about quarter past six, kisses his
sleeping wife, eats a cereal breakfast, walks to the bus garage, drives
his bus, and returns home to the evening meal his wife has prepared for
him.

Jim Jarmusch shows this seven times: once for each day in the week. But
there are slight differences: sometimes he wakes up at half pas six,
his wife's position in bed is different each day (once she's not there
because she got up before him), the talk at dinner depends on the
events of the day. And small things happen every day: there's an
incident at the local pub, the bus breaks down, his wife sells cupcakes
at the farmer's market.

When the average Hollywood blockbuster is a roller-coaster ride, this
film is a quiet walk in the woods. Some people may find it boring. I
didn't. 'Paterson' is a special film, because it has a very rare
characteristic: it's not about anything in particular. Or is it about
life itself? It's up to the viewer to decide.
