
How can a movie as confusing as this be considered Oscar material. This
is nothing like Bigelow's previous superb movies with its jumbled story
and outright fiction presented as "truth". The screenwriter admits to
"a self-imposed rule to never stray from what I understood to be the
underlying truth of a scene or an event". What he termed poetic
license, is nothing less than a license to lie. He also updated the
dialogue, to what, modern terminology or assumed modern attitudes?
Probably both.

Bigelow uses a broad brush dipped in the slime of three corrupt cops as
an indirect implication projected 50 years later on today's police a la
BLM hate. Just casting Will Poulter, who oozes bully/evil, as a cop, is
pejorative. And yes the black victims deserved focus, but not to the
point of marginalizing the massive violence, looting, vandalism, riots
and murder. A major flaw was the fact that the victims stood up to the
beatings and apparent/actual murder of some of them, rather than give
up the dead moron in the parlor who had fired off a starter pistol in
the middle of a riot. This is a canyon sized plot hole.

And in another piece of complete idiocy, one of the black singers is
made to complain that Motown's music is just for white people. Ga! And
yes it was an all white jury, but they found the black security guard
to be innocent in like 8 minutes. But the white judge, who was later
found to be personally corrupt, instructed the jury to either convict
the cops on 1st degree murder (which was not the case), or render a not
guilty verdict--2nd degree murder or manslaughter weren't options.
Chalk another one up to the establishment, so of course none of that
was mentioned.

What in the hell happened here? Was Bigelow found to have been too
conservative in her previous efforts and forced to make a propaganda
film, or is this her true self? Her emphasis can do nothing here but
stir the rabble rousing pot which is already at the boiling point. So I
guess yeah, it is Oscar material.
<|_=00=_|>
Detroit is the latest addition to Kathryn Bigelow's lengthy filmography
and it is the most Bigelow-esque film you'd come to expect from her.
The film displays raw realism with the actors looking very real and
naked from their famous personas. The story is jam packed and while I
think this source material would have made a much better miniseries,
Bigelow makes the story work with sacrificing some facts for the sake
of cinema. The big question is: is it as good as the critics say it is?
The answer: No. Not Close. But with that being said, it is a damn good
movie that is definitely worth seeing.

Telling the story of three murdered African American men in a motel in
Detroit during the city's infamous riots and civil rights movement,
Detroit stars an all star cast that is certainly better on paper than
they are in this film. John Boyega, Will Poulter, Jason Mitchell,
Anthony Mackie, John Krasinski, and on and on-but none of them are
really served as a main character. Bigelow is so determined on telling
the facts of the case that she sacrifices good performances in order to
give us a slice of reality. The film plays out like the most expensive
reenactment of a tragedy on Investigation Discovery and, when looking
at the facts of the case, this is the best compliment I can give the
film. It sounds back handed but it is extremely informative even if it
is picking a side in all of it. The one thing Bigelow does best is
showing a true story like it is unfolding in front of you. She does it
brilliantly in The Hurt Locker and Zero Dark Thirty, but Detroit is
where it is to a fault. 

With a 140-plus minute running time and a gaggle of characters to keep
track of, the story is just too big for a feature film and requires
patience. Despite this, Kathryn Bigelow does her best to tame Mark
Boal's bloated script to a digestible film and the results are mostly
good. The performances from the actors are real, raw and authentic in
every aspect but never enough to burst off the screen. Bigelow lets the
events unfold and do that for them. Overall, Detroit is certainly a
good film in need of an audience just a very patient one.
<|_=00=_|>
The poster of Annapurna's newest film, Detroit hangs at my local
theater like a provocation. A thin blue line of police officers
struggles to hold back angry black protesters as big bold letters are
scrawled along the side. The tagline reads: "It's time we knew." Those
words, along with the required "from the creators of..." accolades are
the only things on the poster that aren't sideways.

They might as well be though, considering the 1967 Detroit riot is
about the only thing about Detroit most Americans know. And I'm sad to
report that while the film does a good job of filling the screen with a
few powerful moments, it never provides much insight into the "untold"
story of the Motor City or how its story fits into the larger context
of modern racial relations.

After an awkward Jacob Lawrence inspired history of the Great
Migration, the film captures the precipitating actions of police that
turned the city's long sitting racial resentments into a lit tinderbox.
In a hybrid of dramatization and archival footage, Detroit then glosses
over the actions taken by the state to subdue tensions before setting
its sights on a host of singular stories. It becomes high noon at the
Algiers Motel where unarmed black teens face off against white police
and National Guardsmen. Then comes the trial.

All of these events could have been their own movies and delved into
deeper depths as to the cause, devastation, aftermath and public
perception of what was later dubbed the black days of July. Yet because
Mark Boal's screenplay is so laser-focused on documented events and
momentary minutia, everything is squished into an off-kilter collage of
well-meaning but superficial docudrama. One whose central story, the
Algiers Motel incident, is treated more like a genre horror film than
either a granular traumatic event or police brutality in microcosm.

Detroit basically pulls a Dunkirk (2017), building unbelievable tension
while giving us the bear minimum in character. It's all about the
situation and the situation only. The recreation of which is beyond
reproach. However, Detroit's grand design creates a narrative
dissonance. One in which the individual experiences of real people just
don't translate all that well.

The problem is compounded further by Barry Ackroyd's unvarnished
cinematography which cuts between extreme closeups of wounded faces,
voyeuristic overheads and wide shots of crowds angrily gathering in the
streets. The lack of establishing shots, aerials, use of recognizable
landmarks etc. hammers home the idea that something like this can
happen anywhere. But the question, why can it happen anywhere, remains
illusive up until we here the words "police criminality should be
treated the same as criminality." By then it's too little too late.

Luckily director Kathryn Bigelow is very adept at inserting humanity
within the margins saving Detroit from being just another Patriot's Day
(2016). She finds a particularly redemptive subject in Algee Smith as
up-and-coming Motown singer Larry Reed. The young actor displays an
emotional intelligence well beyond his years, formulating a character
that starts out with youthful swagger, ends with a shaken core, putting
you in his head-space at all points in-between. Additionally, while
most of the films attempts to color opposing forces with shades of grey
fall flat, Reed's arc feels tragic but sadly understandable given the
circumstance.

Unfortunately for both Bigelow and the city of Detroit, Detroit's
script casts too wide a net to be especially impacting. It's procedural
approach stifles the emotional stakes and its over-arching theme is
turned in with much less humanity and passion than is deserved. Even
with a towering performance by Algee, and the inclusion of Will Poulter
who plays menacing/in-over-his-head real well, Detroit just can't
transcends its trappings. To add insult to injury, the film itself was
shot primarily in Boston...so there's that...
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to this film as I am a big fan of Kathryn
Bigelow as she is one of the few people in Hollywood actually tackling
important topics but I walked out completely disappointed.

The mostly unknown actors were all exceptionally good and should have
careers ahead of them. The Color grade, Casting, and lack of soundtrack
was also very good. What was bad was the childish script which was
filled with cartoonish stereotypes from every class, gender and color.
I found myself cringing at how awful some of the dialogue was and the
direction was pretty much a complete mess.

Anyone that is a fan of Bigelow's films knows that at some point she
goes off on some tangent for 15 minutes but them usually rights the
ship back on course. This entire film was off course from the opening
15 minutes which is just disarray (which I understand is part of the
point) that goes on way too long and we learn nothing that drives the
narrative along. The beatings were like seeing the equally awful
Passion of the Christ... You get so desensitized by the constant
beatings that you really don't care any more. The tacked on Penny
Marshall-esque ending was filled with so much saccharine it could have
induced a diabetic coma and did a complete injustice to The Dramatics.
It was sad because I was really hoping for this to be an important film
especially in the timeliness of this decade but instead it became a
Lifetime Movie with over the top violence.

In the end I could have lived with the direction if there wasn't such a
laughable script. How you take a topic like this and turn it into
something that awful was truly amazing. Just present the story and you
have a great film but instead you end up this disappointment
<|_=00=_|>
I watched with an open mind but this movie Truly darts from the truth
and makes up its own story on what really happened in Detroit.

This movie is clearly made with a political agenda to make "Whitey" or
"White Cops" Nothing but pure evil racists that keep ALL Black people
down.

If you want to be angry or nothing or watch something that didn't
happen then watch this movie, otherwise research the truth about what
happened, because at the end of the day its a movie for entertainment
value only.

In conclusion Id rather watch paint dry or that crappy Valerian move.

Peace out!
<|_=00=_|>
Detroit is a movie that is based around the events of the Algiers Motel
Incident during the African American rebellion. During that incident, a
group of African American males and two white females are taken in as
victims who threatened police officers at the Algiers Motel. When the
incident unfolds, the men and women involved would have their lives
completely changed.

For what this movie is, it's fine. It's executed well enough even if it
isn't completely historically accurate. It does have its intense
moments, mainly towards the second act and the movie is very well
acted. Algee Smith does a fantastic job with his character, Larry
especially. Larry, admittedly is the main highlight of the movie for
me. He is able to show so much through just his facial expressions and
gestures, and I really admire Smith for executing that so well. There
is a lot of political talk throughout this narrative. Some viewers may
not understand all of it.

Either way, my main issue with the movie is that it feels like it drags
on for too long. This movie is almost two and a half hours long, and I
feel like the running time could've been reduced by about 15 minutes. I
mean, the majority of the first act does do a good job at setting up
the catalyst of the plot, but since this movie is about Detroit's
Algiers Motel Incident rather than simply the fall of Detroit itself, I
feel like there's a good chunk in the beginning that could've been
taken out.

Even though Detroit feels like it drags on for too long, it's still a
well acted and well written telling of a tragic event that took place
in the city of Detroit. Sure, it could've been better, but it's at
least a decent movie.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Director Katheryn Bigelow does a wonderful job of creating a great deal
of tension. She does so by cutting from one tightly framed slightly
wobbly shot to the next. Each character's face floods nearly the entire
screen after each of these cuts. This makes the movie deeply personal
and almost claustrophobic at times. The slight wobbles of the camera as
it focuses on a face, adds to the uneasiness and unstable nature of the
situation.

What I'm saying is the movie is expertly directed. That's evident early
on and remains that way throughout. The issue holding this movie back
from becoming one of serious best picture caliber is the writing. The
story felt a bit underdeveloped.

The brief on-screen text explanation of the tension between the Detroit
Police and the city's black residents could have served as a helpful
addition to a setup that followed in the movie. I would have had no
problem with that. But after the movie plays for 20 minutes or so, I
realized that the text was the sole source of setup.

That's a classic case of telling instead of showing. Movies are a video
medium. Use that. Don't casually display the text on screen. This
choice may have been made for the sake of time, but I think the
filmmakers would have been wise to focus more on the setup aspect. The
text explanation felt like an inconsiderate means of storytelling.

After the opening text, the movie meanders for a while, eventually
introducing the key characters and providing an appetizer of their
personalities, foreshadowing their upcoming behavior.

Moments like these showcased strengths in the writing. The writing did
not completely ruin the movie; it simply was not an Oscar-contending
performance, like Bigelow's work.

The movie overall is well made, thanks in large part to Bigelow's deft
direction, but it's not without flaws. One that I already mentioned is
that I wanted the actual movie (not solely text) to better set the
stage of this city that's on the verge of riot.

The second criticism ties into the first. Because of the lack of stage
setting, this becomes a movie that expertly depicts the what, but fails
to fully deliver on the why.

I see the riots. I see the emotional toll that police misconduct had on
the abused citizens. I see the guilt that certain uniformed personnel
felt for standing by and allowing the abuse to take place. What I
didn't see enough of is why all this happened. I wanted a more personal
detailing of what led up to the night shown in the movie. The actions
are clear and powerful, but the motivations are vague and weak.

I came away from the movie wondering what message the filmmakers hoped
to convey. While the title is Detroit, the story has a much narrower
focus. Were the clear majority of Detroit City Police Officers
upstanding in their behavior, with only a few tragic bad apples? Given
the choice focus on only a few officers and a select group of citizens,
should I assume that these officers' misconduct was the norm or the
exception? 

Perhaps it was not the filmmakers' intent to answer these questions.
Maybe they only wanted to tell this specific story, without greater
implications, which is fine. I just personally wanted to see a broader
depiction of the city's atmosphere leading up to, during, and following
the riots.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't criticize the movie on PC or 'racial' grounds, but, on how it
works - doesn't - on screen. Unfortunately, the backlast TO the
backlash paints just about anybody who doesn't like DETROIT as being
PC. I strongly support Bigelow and Boal's 'right' to make any movie
they want, but, it's also a person's right to disapprove and not have
one's motives questioned. My full take:

Director Kathryn Bigelow and writer Mark Boal's THE HURT LOCKER and
ZERO DARK THIRTY are two of best movies of the millennium. Because of
that, it is doubly difficult to write that their current effort,
DETROIT is such a disappointment.

The movie takes place during the Detroit riots of July 1967. It begins
with a wider overview of the situation, complete with archival news
reports, photos and audio.* Interspersed are a few on the ground
perspectives of various characters. It's not terribly involving, but
not bad. Some of these characters begin to gather in and around a
motel. At that point, it becomes clear that the events at that motel
will become the centerpiece of the movie.

Those events became known as the infamous and horrific Algiers Motel
Incident, complete with a contemporaneous best-selling book of that
name by John Hersey. It is here where the movie failings emerge. If
there is one thing that the various witnesses can agree on - is that
there are few things they can agree on. In addition to the book, there
were several investigations, court cases and a myriad of stories
written and recorded over the four decades since. Bigelow and Boal said
they did not use the book when making DETROIT.

However, the movie-makers made the decision to depict a single
narrative viewpoint as if it were "the truth". While the incident may
not have exactly been a Rashomon situation, it was certainly a chaotic
one where no one person was witness to each and every event that
happened along the way. That is Bigelow and Boal's artistic decision.
But, it becomes disastrous if not downright distateful on screen. For,
despite fine performances and strong production values, the sequence
never quite rings true. It seems Written. Directed. Coerced. Co-Opted.
Manufactured. It's a 'true story' that feels false. Without truth.
Without insight. The brutality and inhumanity is so unremitting that it
takes on the feel of an exploitation movie. I fully understand that
exploitation was the last thing on Bigelow and Boal's mind, but the
screen does not lie. Yes, these incidents did happen, but did we need
to see all the blood,bruising and nudity? It further complicates things
that DETROIT's narrative of the events is contradicted by much of the
sworn testimony of the witnesses - both at the time and subsequently**.
Again, Bigelow and Boal's artistic perogative, but to what end if not
to further belief in the portrayal of events??

DETROIT's last act is a long protracted court-room drama. It's supposed
to bring context and some closure to the events, but, like the bulk of
the movie it feels wholly unsatisfactory and unfullfilling. Whenever a
'true story' about barbarous events is brought to the screen by such a
clearly talented cast and crew the term "powerful" is often used
(indeed, there were several audible gasps in the screening I attended).
But, a production can be both "powerful" and "empty". DETROIT,
unfortunately, ends up on the lower end of that scale.

* Kudos to Bigelow for preserving the proper aspect ratio for the
vintage footage

** Without getting into spoilers, I will just mention a relatively
minor example. The musical band portrayed in the movie, The Dramatics,
are depicted as newbies who are seeking a first break. In actuality,
they had been together for four years and even been a recording act for
at least two years Prior to the events in DETROIT. I don't criticize
Boal & Bigelow's movie because of a few fudged facts, but, because it
undercuts the drama even further, making it feel false.
<|_=00=_|>
When did African Americans get the bright idea that rioting and
stealing are the right actions to solve something they didn't agree
with? Can you imagine what would have happened if OJ would have been
convicted? How come they are not this upset when blacks are killing
each other everyday in the streets? Where are the protests against that
subject that kills more blacks then all others combined? I thought
Black Lives Matter, or does it only apply when a white cop kills a
black? Do blacks know that black police officers shoot unarmed black
citizens at a higher rate than white police officers do? Why is it that
blacks are only 13% of the population in the U.S. but commit over 65%
of the violent crimes? What would America look like if the other races
didn't do anything when they riot and commit crimes? Where is a good
place to start? Quit blaming the white man and educate yourselves.
<|_=00=_|>
Unless you believe the Black Lives Matters movement has unanimous
appeal, do not expect the reviews of Kathryn Bigelow's "Detroit" to
garner universal praise. By no means does this movie play it safe and,
for that reason, it does not seek or expect mass appeal. I suspect that
the film will unleash fierce critics of "Hollywood Liberal Bias" and
generate howls from those who want to remind us that most cops really
are good as well as others who are equally vocal and can't stomach
seeing more non-threatening citizens brutally murdered by policemen of
a different stripe.

"Detroit" is a movie that is set in 1967 but it is a statement about
the type of policing that continues to occur far too frequently in many
African American communities. Just as it is not possible to talk about
the recent events in Ferguson, NYC, Minneapolis,Baltimore, Chicago,
Charleston, Cleveland etc., etc. without expressing a particular point
of view, "Detroit" will also reveal many pf our biases as we process
the portrayal of the searing events as they may have occurred at the
Algiers Motel in the midst of a race riot.

"Detroit" will also force us to talk about our preferences for films
that move and disturb us over those that simply entertain and the
amount of "historical accuracy" we expect to see in non- documentaries
that are set in earlier times. 

Bigelow shoots the movie with an unflinching eye and her point of view
is obvious. She errs on the side of the cringe worthy and outrageous
when depicting evil and the actors are committed, inspired and superbly
directed. 

"Detroit" is a film that is as difficult to watch as any two hour
merciless tragedy involving people we know and care about and it is
deeply stirring as it incites (if not assaults) our emotions. This is a
stunning film but well crafted art, like our own reflections in the
finest of mirrors, isn't always pretty. 

"Detroit" intends to upset, provoke and unsettle and, by that account,
it is an unmitigated success.
