
Great start and I was riveted for the first 20 or so minutes...then the
plot fell over from a lack of logic and slid further and further away
from reality.

If the whole story was crap from the start, just from the filming and
acting, I might have given this a 3 or even 5...but for something so
promising to turn bad from just before the half way mark was extremely
disappointing and frustrating.

As said...the beginning was nice and though there were some misplaced
work ethics and contradictions, it was acceptable and we can put them
down to human character flaws...

Some examples of what killed it for me...spoiler ahead...

The commander decided to not come back in to the station and instead
leave the creature outside...why didn't she just push herself
away...she should know that in space...a light push will keep her going
forever...instead, she allowed the creature a chance to cling back onto
the space station...heroic maybe, but not smart (a
non-scientific-minded commander of a space station?).

Miranda and David found out that they can track the creature's
movement. At that same time, Sho is still hiding in the sleep pod and
to them, he is still missing and without comms...wouldn't the immediate
normal human (team)reaction is to find and bring back the third last
surviving member of the group? They trapped the creature in one area.
Shouldn't, wouldn't they try to 'kill' it when it is trapped?
No...doing something would be more taxing than just chatting with each
other.

The part where Sho opened the door to the 'rescue' shuttle and air
started rushing out...all three of them looked like they were hanging
on for dear life not to be 'sucked' away...yet once they decide that
Sho is dead and lost, the two of them can scramble away like normal
zero gravity...huh?? Were they just acting out the struggle with
rushing air? In the same scene...many people have died and their anger
and repulsion for the creature is well known...yet, when the creature
crawled from Sho to Miranda, she kept on holding him to allow it to
crawl onto her...try that with a rat or a spider and we all know that
it is not normal for a person repulsed by something to keep holding on
like that... Instead, Sho must act the hero to rip the creature back
onto himself to save her...if he had wanted to save her, he should have
let go when he realised he couldn't shake the creature...

The creature was floating around outside the space station for quite a
long time...but they decide at the end that it needed oxygen to survive
(like humans? can we float around outside a space station for more than
2 minutes- even assuming we can handle the decompression like the
creature can???) and in fact would hug an oxygen producer is
laughable...please...before filming start...decide if the creature
needs oxygen!!! (or love oxygen in fact) 

David put the escape pod into manual mode so that he can fly himself
and the creature out to deep space...and while I understand the
creature is very smart and learns quickly...but so quickly that it can
fly the escape pod back for a re-entry? Wow...a half degree off would
either skip the pod back out to space or dive too steeply and
incinerate the pod...but it did the improbable...perfect re-entry
control without lessons or prior practise....frigging brilliant...

There were many more like these but I lost interest not much later
after the commander died and the rest preferred to cry instead of
dealing a serious problem...so didn't register much of the less
glaring...

A possible Alien level movie failed by poor scripting and story...could
have been a real classic...but sadly no...Hollywood's thinking that we
must like space movies because the CGI is impressive needs to
change...they should have a re-look at Alien, Sunshine, Moon and The
Martian and understand that space can be a great movies backdrop but
logic MUST still be strictly earth-bound if it involves humans...

Not yet offensive to the intellect but just sad and unrealistic.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be the worst sci-fi movie I have ever seen (and trust me I
have seen a lot). It is an insult to anyone with just half a brain. But
let me give you a little taste of this gem:

It starts off with a capsule with a soil probe from Mars on its way to
Earth that is out of control due to a crash with little meteorites. The
ISS, where the probe should be processed, has to catch it manually,
which they do by means of an extendable arm. Okay. I wont go into the
physics off this, but if you have ever seen how much energy is set free
when a car crashes into something with 100km/h relative velocity, you
should know that such a catching maneuver is bound to go south (not
even talking about the problem of maintaining a space station in
geostationary orbit with nothing but little jet nozzles whilst trying
to get it into a configuration such that it has low relative velocity
with respect to a capsule that is headed straight for Earth with
something like 20000km/h). Mind you, at this point we are 5 minutes
into the movie and the science was already thrown out of the window.

Fast forward. We are in the CDC approved lab, which is a plexiglass
shielded section of the ISS with nothing but a plexiglass door without
any further safety precautions. Inside this section is a glove box,
where they keep the probe. Turns out the probe contains life which has
been idle for about 4 billion years without decaying (obviously entropy
doesn't apply to aliens). Well, how about we try to wake it without
further investigation? Yeah, let's do that.

Fast forward. It has grown to a hand-sized organism, but has fallen
into a slumber again. It's still inside the glove box and attacks the
biologist who tried to wake it by electrocuting it. It breaks his tool
and his hand, which causes him to faint, and leads to its escape from
the box by means of using the broken tool to cut open the glove of the
glove box. (yeah, it only took earth's organisms like 3 billion years
to learn to use tools, this thing does it in less than 12 hours). But
fear not, whilst the life form is busy eating a rat, a colleague hops
in the lab and pulls the biologist out. Surprise, surprise, the
organism latches on him, so that the other guys have to seal him into
the lab. He tries to burn the organism with an oxygen torch and with a
flame thrower (which they obviously have ready to use on a space
station, ofc). Welp, it doesn't help, this carbon-water-based organism
is immune to fire (hey, because chemistry doesn't apply to aliens,
didn't you know?). Subsequently, the organism kills him and eats him
from the inside. The fire has caused the air vents to open, which
somehow can only be closed one by one, and gives the organism time to
flee.

Jup, we are not even 20 minutes into this masterpiece but the stupidity
is mind-boggling. I could keep on writing about a lot more of this
utterly dumb movie (like the organism being able to survive in space
for prolonged times, the space station being out of fuel just at a time
where it is convenient for the "plot", the organism drinking toxic
liquid coolant, the space station going on a descent right after it has
been pushed outward on an ascending course (because screw logic),
etc.), but let me finish by saying that in the end of the movie this
organism has figured out how to read instruments in an escape pod, how
to steer said escape pod and how to safely reenter it into earth's
atmosphere, all whilst fighting the astronaut in the escape pod. (Which
was tried to be masked as plot twist. but you could see that one from a
mile away). And although it has killed every astronaut basically on
sight, it decided to leave this last one in the escape pod alive with
itself latched to him. Wanna know why? Because it has anticipated that,
despite it successfully completing the landing of a space ship, it
won't be able to open the door of the escape pod and someone on the
outside has to do it for it. Which some fisher men actually do, despite
the fact that they can clearly see that inside the pod there is a
bloody, heavily injured astronaut with a man-sized alien octopus
attached to it.

I urge you to not go to watch this movie. Waste of time and money. I
have suffered through it. No need for you to suffer too.
<|_=00=_|>
The Good:

Believable, big budget special effects. Some decent jump scares and
squirm-in-your-seat horror.

The Bad:

The characters were generic and boring. The acting was often spotty and
not consistent with the situation (more poor direction than bad acting
I think). The Martian creature came from the soil on Mars where it had
to hibernate to survive, yet it could survive freezing cold, burning
heat, no oxygen, space vacuum and everything else the crew could throw
at it. And it pretty much ate everything (including cooling fluid).
Lazy science to aid lazy plot sequences.

The Ugly:

Unrealistic behavior from professional astronauts and scientists. Every
scene seemed to be a result of a poor decision putting the crew at
risk. Everything seemed predictable and there was little-to-no tension.

Unlike the brilliant Alien - where you felt the protagonist (Ripley)
and crew did everything right, yet fell victim to a horrifyingly
believable alien (except for Ripley and the cat of course) - the crew
in Life pretty much seemed to randomly do things, forget things, then
remember things, and generally make the worst of the situation, while
terrorized by the "super-alien-jellyfish" thing. I spent most of the
movie thinking "wait... what? why?". Mediocre film from a mediocre
Director.
<|_=00=_|>
It is rare for me to do a complete password reset to write a short
movie review. I do hope that my little effort and many others' effort
can alert the Hollywood that this world, the audience, still need a
well written script that make sense.

This movie is a total loss and is unbearable to watch. It lacks the
very basic (minimal) scientific reasoning about almost every single
scene. I will list them as follows:

1. NASA and other space agency across the global are completely out of
their mind in selecting astronauts. Every single people in the
international space station (ISS) seem to be extremely emotional,
unprofessional, and lack the very basic science knowledge. It is awful
to hear that many of them have the "Dr." title. It is such a decry to
the scientific professionals. These characters do not represent the
people with a Phd, and the diligent people working on sending people to
Mars, for real.

2. The ridiculous lab setting is a failure even for researching known
disease on earth soil. There is a character who is from CDC in the
movie. However, I wonder any CDC expert would ever consider attending a
mission that is so cutting edge and full of unknown, with the knowledge
that the lab is not as good as the ones they used to treat ZIKA in
Africa. Those ZIKA labs(tents actually) has better breach protocols and
protection than the 200 Billion ISS described in the movie. 

3. The life form is too ridiculous. If the producer wants to make a
"Alien" like creature, then please do not make a movie that uses the
real life as story background. The life form consume water and is
carbon based. Yet, it does not boil or explode in the bare space? I do
not know if such creature exists, but it is definitely not carbon
based. So, please get a scientific consultant before even considering
make this movie.

I like watching super hero movies, since they just don't try to hint
you to attempt making sense of the movie. It is OK to make a movie that
is nonsense, as long as you do not try to deliver it as if it make
sense.

I like watching science fictions, since they will at least follow some
basic rules. Martians and Interstellar are pretty stretch on scientific
mind. However, there is a way for you to at least explain the story. It
is very boundary case, but it can make sense. I think this is the very
basic principal for a science fiction movie that try to use real world
as context.

The final word is that "how did this movie end up getting the
ridiculous rating?" When I check the rating, even the rotten tomato
puts it to 61%. This is too beyond my sense.
<|_=00=_|>
First let me get something out of the way, I apologise for the cretins
who compare this film with such masterpieces as Alien, Aliens or any of
the first 4 Alien films which are vastly superior to this piece of
tripe. This film should be compared to the equally disturbing and lame
"Prometheus", but those bunch of retards, sorry "astronauts" in that
film obviously went to the same space academy as this sorry bunch of
losers. My jaw just hit the floor from the very start of this pathetic
effort. Catching containers from Mars like you were fishing for
Sticklebacks in a pond? Are you ****in kidding me? Then scientist guy
starts playing with an ALIEN life form like he's just picked a bogey
out of his nose! While wearing kitchen gloves! I don't know about you
but that thing was doing some freaky sheet and these are just a few
things that would of concerned me: Does it bite, stab, explode, give
off gases, radiate any sort of energy, could it control your brain?
Before that thing started turning into a mini transformer and going for
a mooch I would of been long gone and phoning home for a ticket back.
When little alien called "Calvin" ...... (No I'm not making this up!)
Decides to grab scientists arm and act all hostile (Due to Calvin
having a nap, to be rudely woken up by being ELECTROCUTED) another of
the brain dead astronauts wants to go in and rescue him! Later on
Calvin is crawling all over Jap guy and two fellow crew are trying to
pull him towards them into their part of the station? WHY? Just so much
of this awful logic defying stuff is going on that I just couldn't take
anymore. I was just wishing for Calvin to finish off these goons as
soon as possible and I had a chuckle to myself every time one bit the
dust. I vote 2 because the ending was so satisfying. If these bunch of
sad goons represent the pinnacle of human achievement, the whole
species can die. I would call this film "Prometheus 2 - squid takes out
pathetic humans again"
<|_=00=_|>
This could have been a really great and interesting movie, but it is
ruined by a string of illogical events. 

Spoiler alert ! !

Some of these: - Kevin (the alien) seems to be totally fire resistant.
At the beginning, one of the scientist chased it in the isolation room
and hit it with a blowtorch multiple times. The alien did not even slow
down a bit, but directly attacked back without seemingly having any
wound. Knowing that only very few materials can resist heat above a
couple of hundred degrees, that seems to be very unreasonable.

- The communication system broke down right at the beginning. No
secondary system available in the whole ISS! ! A "radio" cannot cost
that much in the age of telecommunication so designers of ISS would not
build one or more backups of this essential tool into ISS. And that
notion that the communication system would need special coolant ...
Does not make sense at all.

- Scientist are mourning a lost crew member for seemingly a long time
while having an all resistant and all powerful alien roaming in their
tiny space station putting them in immediate mortal danger. 

- The "genius" biologist let himself to be sucked dry and endangered
the entire crew and the entire Earth, by smuggling the alien on his
leg. Just because he thought the alien is not evil and just trying to
survive.

- Whatever the crew did worked in favour of the alien. Like if an
unseen hand (lame script) wanted to raise tension by always helping the
alien. Trying to burn the alien in the tubes, the Soyuz capsule which
was meant to push the ISS away from Earth, all pushed the station
closer to Earth! Nothing happened benefiting the crew. 

- The female scientist sacrificed herself for nothing. It was evident
that the alien can jump with quite an accuracy, so it just jumped back
from her dead body to the space station as could be easily anticipated
even by me.

- The fuel just run out at the wrong time. It seemed that if the fuel
would last a bit longer, the alien would suffocate. Surprisingly the
entire space station lost all the fuel just before the alien died, so
it could enter the space station again.

- Around the end all system failures worked against the humans and for
the alien. The 2 escape pods went just the wrong direction. Of course
they hit the debris around the space station causing both to take the
opposite course the pilots wanted. Kevin (the alien) seemingly learnt
on the fly how to navigate a human space capsule safely back to Earth
while subduing the scientist in it. He learnt how the control works,
what would be the correct entry path, how human system work on the fly.
HOW? Moreover the astronaut in the capsule did not anticipate that if
the autopilot is let run, than the alien would end up back on Earth. He
clicked buttons, took the controls but these were not enough the diver
the capsule away from the correct entry course. Could not even go on a
burn up or skim off course at least....

There were lot more of these in the movie. Basically the movie had
rarely anything logical in it. Even in movie Alien people were not
these "unlucky" or movie script so lame. They fought back, they had
their moments, the universe (script) did not conspire to destroy them
no matter what.
<|_=00=_|>
I was highly annoyed by the unprofessional and error-prone behaviour of
the movie characters. Throughout the movie, you will ask yourself: How
can he be so stupid? Why is she not doing the obvious? Why are the
astronauts emphasising proper procedures, then five seconds later
breaking their own rules? How come a former soldier is breaking the
chain of command? There is nothing realistic about the behaviour of
these characters. In the end, I just hated them. I do not believe that
there is a demographic that likes movies like this. Either the script
was written by an incompetent author, or the directors are ignorant of
what makes a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing this and I have to say that I thought it was
a really good film.

I see that RT only has it at 65% and it's being made out to be a cheap
Alien clone but I think that is doing it a dis-service. I felt it was
intelligently made, set characters and situations well and created a
palpable sense of tension. Criticism that it's a blatant re-run of
Alien are unjustified. Granted, it's about an alien life form in space
but that to me is where the similarity ends.

Alien isn't the only scary film set in space that is allowed to be made
and if Prometheus is anything to go by, Ridley has no right to be the
only person allowed to make sci-fi horror films. It captured well the
excitement of discovery, the wonder of space and the precariousness of
facing any problems up there.

The effects were good, you could see what was going on, there was
unease and dread and it kept me thoroughly absorbed and entertained. I
don't want to elaborate anymore for fear of giving away spoilers but if
you like a bit of tension with your sci-fi, it's worth checking out.
Try to avoid the critic reviews if you can as I think going in a little
blind will help your enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to experience what the world's most stupid space crew would
do when they encounter alien life, then this is the movie for you. You
will be spoiled with one idiotic decision after the other, making you
wonder if the alien life-form also has telepathic powers, using it to
dumb down it's prey. 

At the start of the movie the crew is besides themselves with joy when
they manage to reanimate a single alien cell that has been dead for
billions of years. Even when it starts to replicate and grow very fast,
none of them feels any sense of possible danger.

After the alien life-form attacks the scientist, there still seems to
be no hurry to just shoot the lab into space. After all, it's just
mankind's future that is at stake. No, the most important thing is to
save the scientist. This crew would have benefited from a sociopath in
their midst or a protocol obsessed captain. That would have saved them
many times. 

To make matters worse, a huge chunk of the dialogue is redundant. You
see that the creature has grown, then somebody says "Wow, it has
grown". You see the alien make a fast escape, somebody says "Wow, it is
fast". You see the alien being smart, you hear someone say "How smart
is this thing?". You see the alien look for air holes, you hear someone
say "It is looking for air holes" you get the picture. Who on earth
would write a script like that and not notice the stupendous
redundancy? 

The movie does have some great tense and gory moments that work well.
There just is not enough of them to make it work as a good horror
movie. The alien itself starts out very realistic, but looks
increasingly CGI during the movie and the many close-ups don't help. It
looks too surreal to be threatening. 

All in all, it was a huge disappointment to me. With a star cast like
that, you would expect more than just a very bland space thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Alien-esk, but that is not what pisses me off. 

Great cinematography. Wonderful concept. Believable sets. Good actors.
Horrible execution and completely contrived plot line and plot drivers.
I will get to the point..... The creature escapes the lab by escaping
into a fire suppression vent!! Assuming it could fit into the 1/2-1/4
inch steel tubing (capable of containing several thousand psi) it would
have dead-ended into a steel or carbon fiber cylinder (again capable of
containing several thousand psi). The alien would have effectively
trapped itself inside a completely sealed system and unable to escape.
Movie over, destroy life form at earliest convenient opportunity. 

It would have been much more believable and sustained the plot line if
the alien could have just escaped out the door when Rory went in to
rescue Huge (who causes ALL the problems with his maternal instinct -
he calls it "my child" wha WHAT?! - and love for the creature
completely at the expense of the lives of his crew mates). Don't even
start me on when he hides in his pants - not a party in there either. 

I'm done.... there are just too many holes in the construction of the
plot for me to even believe that such a creature could exist or enjoy
the sinister nature of the creature. Any critic who likes this must
have no basic eye for detail such as the solid state of matter and how
complex machines such as space craft would be constructed to keep the
vacuum of space out side the craft. This space ship is obviously a
sieve. this terrible movie disgusts me and I want my money back.

Yuck
