
What the hell is Phoenix Forgotten, you ask? Well, dear reader, that is
a great question. I had never heard of this movie until it appeared on
the release schedule a couple of weeks ago. I never saw a single
trailer or commercial for it. It features a cast of unknowns, is from a
first-time director (Justin Barber) and was even released from a
first-time distributor (Cinelou Films). Yet somehow, this pile of
nonsense was given a nationwide theatrical release and, according to
the arbitrary rules that I've established for myself, that means that I
have to be the one person that goes to see it. You're welcome.

Phoenix Forgotten is a found-footage movie inspired by the real-life
sighting of a UFO flying over Phoenix in 1997. Following the sighting,
three teenagers suspect that something strange is afoot, so they grab
some hand-held cameras and head into the woods near Burkittsville,
Maryland to investig-sorry, wrong movie. They grab some cameras and
head into the desert to investigate. After wandering around for an
eternity or so, they start to see and hear strange things, they get
lost, their compass stops working and they start to realize that there
really is a witch in the woo-. sorry, wrong movie again. They start to
realize that there really are aliens in the desert. This footage is
mixed with documentary footage, set in the present day, of the sister
of one of the kids trying to investigate their disappearance. The
sister's story literally goes nowhere; the movie doesn't even return to
her after the 1997 footage ends. I'm not a betting man, but I would
wager that the original intent was for the footage of the three kids to
be the entire movie and the filmmakers added the sister when they
realized they didn't have enough material for a feature-length movie. 

Nothing happens in this movie. Nothing. I mentioned that the sister's
entire subplot is just filler to pad the running time, but not a damn
thing happens for most of the 1997 footage either. It's like your most
boring friends are forcing you to watch home videos of a hiking trip
that they took, but the sadistic bastards rented a movie theater for
the ordeal. As a found footage movie, we know how this is going to end.
It will end the same way all these goddamn things end. The camera will
get real shaky, there will be some loud noises, the camera will fall to
the ground and text will appear saying that the characters were never
seen again. I spent what felt like an eternity watching these
jackwagons wander around the desert waiting for an ending that is more
inevitable than the last act of Titanic. I checked the running time as
I left the theater and couldn't believe that it is only 87 minutes. I
thought I was in there for hours. I expected the sun to be rising and
giving me the finger as it rose above the horizon. But, no. Time just
stood still for me as I experienced the horror of sitting through this.

This movie feels like a film student's senior thesis that was
accidentally released to theaters. When this is available on
demand/Netflix (which should be in a few hours or so), I challenge you
to lay down, put this on and try to make it to the end of the movie
without falling asleep. There are no other rules to this game. You can
make a pot of coffee using Red Bull instead of water and substitute
cocaine for sugar if you want. I bet that you will still fail. If you
succeed, your reward will be losing 87 minutes of your life that you
will never get back. Good luck!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really surprised me honestly. I did not expect at all to
like it as much as I did. I'm a huge fan of the found footage genre
when done right and it's very hard to find some good ones out there.
This movie in particular was hands down my favorite "indie", as you can
all it, found footage movie.

From the beginning there's already a sense of suspense to it and
mystery behind what happened to the missing trio. It's kinda obvious
based off of the type of movie this is that they are abducted, but what
leads up to it is very interesting. A slow burner for sure, not much
interesting happens until the last 30 minutes but before that is a very
well crafted backstory and "mockumentary" style movie. They go in depth
of the backstory of each of the kids and the protagonist of the movie
is on a constant search for not only her missing brother but the other
2 that he brought along with him. Being an AZ native I was very
surprised at how realistic this movie is and really, even if you're not
from there, this movie is VERY realistic. The acting seems real, the
way it's filmed feel very 90's, and the actual events aren't your usual
CGI and jumpscare filled horror. There's a lot of suspense and mystery
behind what actually happened.

This movie I would recommend to anyone with a willing eye, or just
anyone in general.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is truly a waste of your time. The acting, plot, and
production are all below average. I have no idea why this film has a
rating of a 5 of 10 it in no way deserves it. Greenlighting movies like
this is a sign that the industry needs reality check. No one likes a
predictable, overused, cliché ending. The audience all walked away
bewildered when the credits started to role. Please readers take my
advice and warning, stay away from this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if Phoenix Forgotten marks, much more than even last
year's "soft reboot/sequel" of Blair Witch, the "found footage"
sub-type or genre of horror, the full circle of what it's been all
about. The funny thing is that this is not entirely even found footage;
it is actually, to go back further, indebted too to what Blair Witch
was itself doing an homage to, Cannibal Holocaust, though that didn't
pretend to be the documentary that this does. While we do get to see
some of the footage shot in 1997 by the main woman's older brother
sporadically in the first two thirds, we don't get the full, unfiltered
"found" part of it until the last twenty minutes. And, whether it's
because a lot has been built up beforehand with the characters, it's
the best part of the movie.

I should note that this first two-thirds feels longer because some of
the character build up is of the stock kind; the acting isn't that bad,
certainly considering the low budget, but this all seems to go on for a
long while. It almost puts the director Justin Barber into an
uncomfortable position: he has to really have something that pays off
for our patience, or else we're going to be quite mad (there was a
large family sitting near me which had such an inclination at the end
of the film, with one exclaiming, and I quote, "That s*** was ass!")
Thankfully, it pays off just enough to be passable. Could it have been
more, or a little less predictable? Of course, it almost always can be.

I do have to stress that this is probably a better movie than you're
expecting while, simultaneously, being reasonable enough for a rental
or even a Netflix viewing - not so much for a movie theater screen
where, indeed, much of what we see isn't so cinematic as to warrant a
giant screen experience. What stands out is that the performances are
by people who are trying (and the writing is trying for them too, at
least up to a point, the actress, Chelsea Lopez I think, on the poster
is the example of that), and the director and his team make some clever
motions to bringing alien invasion into the found-footage horror style.

So the special effects are all seamlessly done in the frame of what
*is* a shot-on-90's-consumer-grade camcorder. There isn't anything in
the present day, so everything in the past has to work. As far as
capturing that rough-edged 90's approach technically speaking, and
getting us to believe it, they do a competent job. If anything if the
whole movie had been *more* in the 90's style - say, if they found
rolls and rolls of tapes and that's all they had to go on, no
present-day interviews with boiler-plate answers from the parents and
experts and journalists - it'd be even more appealing.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a good movie it was basically based off of the events of
the Phoenix incident basing all the real 3 people that went missing
which really went missing but it shows what they thought happened
because of how the three were together with UFO's and stuff but I
thought this movie was good, not amazing but a good found footage film
it had great showing of how they come together to find out what
happened in Phoenix with the lights and everything and showing how all
of them come together to find out what it was and also it shows the
sister filming on what happened to her brother which is one of the
three missing people but what happened to them it shows don't want to
say what to ruin it but it is interesting and it feels like the
government would actually hide something like this because they said
this is based on the same event just not the footage and stuff but it
was an okay movie and a good found footage movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Those words are what I was literally screaming in my head beginning
about a half an hour into the film, as the first act of the movie went
on and on with all these unnecessary and drawn-out interviews with the
family members and friends of the three teenagers who went missing back
in 97' after the Phoenix Lights incident in Phoenix, Arizona. I
honestly felt like I was watching a faux documentary on the film,
perhaps something to watch in the special features section of the DVD
when it comes out, but it made up over half of the movie!

The sad thing, this film had a lot of promise and potential, and so
much of it was squandered in the end. The Phoenix Lights, unlike The
Blair Witch, which this film, quite rightfully, is constantly accused
of being a ripoff of, was a real phenomenon which took place twenty
years ago. To this day it was never really been explained, and while
there are tons of individuals out there claiming to know what took
place, it still remains a mystery to the general public. Also, some
very interesting ideas regarding the Ancient Astronauts Mythos, with
references to Merkabah or Ezekiel's wheel from the Old Testament
actually providing some insight into the mystery later on in the "found
footage" part of the movie when you find out what really happened to
the three missing teenagers, Mark, Josh, and Ashley. 

In addition to this, some potential for emotional depth and drama
regarding the younger sister of Josh who went missing back in 97,
regarding her current goal of attempting to find out what really
happened to him by creating the "documentary" part of the film, also
never amounts to very much. I understand this isn't some deep Hollywood
drama about what the mental states of the friends and family of those
unfortunate people who are never heard from again, but it could have
been a lot more in-depth than it was without losing focus. 

In the end however, it ultimately falls prey to far too many of the
clichés and pitfalls which unfortunately plague almost every "found
footage" horror movie these days, and yes, at times, it seems very
reminiscent of an earlier film nowadays regarded as a classic, 1999's
The Blair Witch Project. A real shame because for quite a while towards
the end when it finally shows what happened to them, it was genuinely
eerie and foreboding but then of course the ending itself manages to be
one of the most anti-climactic I've ever seen. It was okay I guess, but
falls far from greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
Phoenix Forgotten portrays itself as a movie about the sister of a teen
who went missing after the phoenix lights incident in 1997. If you're
not familiar with the phoenix lights, a bunch of strange lights
appeared over Phoenix, then disappeared and was then never explained.

Sophie Bishop, 20 years after her brother went missing, decides to
shoot a documentary about what happened, and try and discover the
truth. That sums up the first 2/3 of the movie and involves interviews
with her family, plus footage shot by Josh (who was, of course, a
camera geek and budding movie director). Caught halfway between this
fake documentary and found footage movie, Phoenix Forgotten never
really gets off the ground. There is some groundwork laid for the final
act of the movie, but mostly the first couple acts are forgettable.

The third act is where the movie really takes off, as the director
fully embraces the found footage genre, and succeeds. The camera
actually makes sense that it would be filmed, and the actions seem very
believable. The main problem with the end of the movie is how the movie
just ends. Don't expect any explanation of what was just witnessed or
what it means. Is it human, alien, or other? That's up for the
interpretation of the viewer and leaves the film weaker off.

The other issue with the ending of the movie is it totally drops
Sophie's documentary. While this works better for the pacing of the
movie being watched, it's odd that a thread played out for so long is
just dropped.

In the end, viewers who enjoy the found footage genre should find
something enjoyable here. But the dropped threads, questionable first
hour, and ambiguous ending hurt the film.
<|_=00=_|>
'PHOENIX FORGOTTEN': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

A low-budget horror flick about three missing teenagers, that were
trying to find the source of a 1997 UFO phenomenon called 'Phoenix
Lights' (when they disappeared 20-years earlier). Newly discovered
found footage shows the teens' final hours (before they vanished). The
film was directed by debut feature filmmaker Justin Barber, and it was
written by Barber and T.S. Nowlin. Nowlin also served as a co- producer
on the movie, alongside the great Ridley Scott. The cast features
Chelsea Lopez, Florence Hartigan, Justin Matthews and Luke Spencer
Roberts. The film is your pretty standard 'found footage' low-budget
thriller, nothing memorable but nothing too laughably bad either. 

On March 13th, of 1997, multiple strange lights appeared in Phoenix,
Arizona. They were witnessed by several shocked locals, and believed to
be a UFO sighting by many. Three teens (Lopez, Matthews and Roberts)
went investigating the phenomenon, and went missing. This film picks up
20-years later, on the anniversary of their disappearance, when one of
the missing teenager's sister (Hartigan) decides to investigate her
brother's disappearance.

The movie is definitely nothing original, or scary (in my opinion). It
is decently acted and directed though, for the genre. It's based on a
real event too, so at the very least the film is somewhat educational.
I didn't find it boring, or overly cheesy either. I'd say it's worth at
least one viewing, if you're a fan of this type of movie.

Watch an episode of our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/KR0HDeT91m0
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is about a woman who does a documentary on the disappearance
of her brother and his two friends that happen back in 97.

The Hi-8 footage used to compose those scenes from 20 years ago makes
the movie seem like a throwback of the Blair Witch Project (Which I
think was shot on 35mm, actually). It's almost a found footage movie
within a found footage movie as this documentary filmmaker goes back
over the case of her missing brother interviewing family and friends of
all three as well as the police department, trying to find something
that was possibly missed 2 decades ago. Then she would go through her
brother's old Hi- 8 footage that tells the story of what happen up to
the part where three teens (Oh! just like in the Blair Witch Project)
went missing, while investigate a series of lights that appeared in the
sky at the time that had no origin.

Honestly, the movie really takes a while for the story to get jumping.
The documentary made on the missing kids is not that interesting yet
effective in setting up the Hi-8 footage of the three missing kids.
Getting to know these kids is actually not as interesting as watching
that last 20-30minutes when the film indeed becomes like the Blair
Witch Project.

I did really like what they did for the Hi-8 footage, not only a real
throwback to the 90s in look and feel but the camera work in itself was
actually really good (And it has to be because you can see the obvious
change in quality from Hi-8 analog to the digital format we are doing
today.) 

So overall, the movie takes a long and sometimes dull time to get to
the fun stuff, but I would say it leaves me (just) satisfied once they
get there.

http://cinemagardens.com
<|_=00=_|>
" Based on shocking(?) Untold True Events(??) "

The events are about as shocking as stale popcorn, the story was untold
because the screenwriters have just recently written it, and the events
are about as true as can be expected from a found footage flick,
especially in this day and age. 

They seven years anniversary of 1997's Phoenix lights sighting had
already passed, so had ten years anniversary, so the filmmakers decided
to drop this wholly predictable and formulaic, barely feature length,
eighty- minutes long hybrid of 1999's Blair Witch, 2016's Blair Witch,
and a generic X Files/ alien visitation plot into cinemas on the
next clichéd, hyperbolic anniversary. They shouldn't have bothered.

The derivative plot involves the search for teenagers who disappeared
during the 13 March 1997 sighting of unidentified lights above Phoenix,
Arizona, after their video camera is found, documenting their final
moments, for no other reason than so it can be used in a found footage
flick.

In addition to being one of the least ambitious films in recent memory,
the trailer tells shows most of what is in store here, including
telling us the teens were supposedly never seen again, so the final
outcome holds zero suspense. There's so little to say about this movie,
because there's so little substance to it. While admittedly, it isn't *
terrible *, it also isn't worth watching, either.
