{"name": "Chris Miller", "gender": 2, "popularity": 1.426185, "imdb_id": "nm3735491", "birthday": "1975-09-23", "also_known_as": [], "place_of_birth": "Roslyn, NY Long Island", "deathday": null, "profile_path": "/lw0PREJF51j1gPUQVO2tVX6dduJ.jpg", "homepage": null, "id": 12098, "biography": "From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia  Chris Miller is an American animator, director, screenwriter, television producer, and voice actor. He studied animation at the California Institute of Arts, and joined Dreamworks SKG in 1998 as a storyboard artist for the studio's first animated comedy, Antz. Miller, again working as a story artist for Shrek, also wrote additional dialogue and provided the voice of the Magic Mirror and Geppetto characters for the film. He then served as head of story for Shrek 2. Mr. Miller went on to co-direct Shrek the Third along with Raman Hui, writing the screenplay for the film, and providing the voice of the puppet master and the mascot. He also provided the voice for Kowalski in Madagascar (and its video game), The Madagascar Penguins in a Christmas Caper, Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa and Merry Madagascar (in the series, he was replaced by Jeff Bennett).  Miller has worked on a wide array of features, commercials, videos and internet projects, including a short for Steven Spielberg entitled \"Steven\u2019s Dream.\" His commercial work includes spots for Coca-Cola, Canon, The Comedy Channel and FILA, for which he won a Clio Award for best animated commercial.  In an interview with Robert K. Elder for The Film That Changed My Life, Miller attributes his success in film to Sleeper.  I would be penniless and drunk on the corner, begging for cash, if I had not seen the film Sleeper. I guarantee you.  Miller is also a longtime collaborator with the Helios Dance Theater, for which he has created sets, films and projections on numerous occasions. His wife Laura Gorenstein Miller, is the founder and director of that same company.  Description above from the Wikipedia article Chris Miller (animator), licensed under CC-BY-SA, full list of contributors on Wikipedia.", "adult": false}